

801 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Senate Race;
Republican Imperils Tide Of Democrats in California

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 23

 BODY:
In the volatile 1992 election year, at least this has seemed certain: Gov. Bill Clinton will win California big, and he will bring with him two female Democratic Senators, Barbara Boxer and Dianne Feinstein.
But an upset could be in the making. By painting the liberal Ms. Boxer as a free-spending Washington insider, a 60-year-old conservative Republican who has never held elective office before is swimming against the rushing Democratic tide. Poll takers say he has surged in recent days, shaking the Boxer camp and feminists nationally. 
 He is Bruce Herschensohn, a former Government film maker, aide to Richard M. Nixon and television commentator who resembles few other politicians. To him, a fine meal consists of two pieces of American cheese between slices of white bread, served on a paper plate. His one-bedroom apartment in Hollywood, which lacks even plates and glasses, makes a college dormitory room seem luxurious. The only possessions the divorced Mr. Herschensohn values are his ideas, deeply conservative notions about driving the Federal Government out of people's lives.
He advocates abolishing or cutting back nearly every Federal agency except the Department of Defense. Mr. Herschensohn would repeal the Endangered Species Act, ban abortion except when the mother's life is threatened or in cases of rape and incest, replace the graduated income tax with a flat tax, and provide no Federal aid to rebuild after hurricanes, riots and other disasters. He favors free international trade and a strong military presence abroad.
All of this is based on a strict interpretation of the Constitution, leaving most authority with the states. "I am a constitutionalist more than I am anything else," he said in an interview on Wednesday. "If I were to label myself, that would be the label."
Although the Boxer campaign has tried, it has been difficult for it to paint Mr. Herschensohn as a wild-eyed extremist, given that his avuncular face and mellifluous baritone are familiar to millions of Southern Californians from his nightly commentaries on KABC-TV here over 13 years. While supported by the religious right, his conservatism seems less emotional.
"He comes off as reasonable and rational," said Sherry Bebitch Jeffe, a political analyst at the Claremont Graduate School. "He reminds me of Ronald Reagan. You might hate what he stands for, but he's a decent human being. He's very media friendly, while Boxer comes off as overly shrill."
 
'Down to Earth'
 Indeed, if Sandra Martinez is typical, Ms. Boxer, a Representative since 1982, is in trouble. Even though Ms. Martinez, a saleswoman for a medical clinic, strongly favors abortion rights, she is undecided. After hearing Mr. Herschensohn speak at a lunch this week, she found his manner "down to earth," while saying she found reports of Ms. Boxer's writing 143 uncovered checks on the House bank "a little bit scary."
Ms. Boxer's early lead has been halved, according to the latest Field Poll, from 22 points in mid-September to 11 points in a poll taken Oct. 3-10. The polls of 900 registered voters had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points. Ms. Feinstein still holds a sizable lead in her race against Senator John Seymour.
More recent private polls show the Boxer-Herschnesohn race even closer, though the Republican's own poll taker, Arnold Steinberg, said he remains the underdog because Governor Clinton leads President Bush in California by a staggering margin of 22 points. A rattled Boxer campaign called on Mr. Clinton for help, and he barnstormed with her on Thursday.
California has a history of vote splitting. In 1964, for example, California voted overwhelmingly for Lyndon B. Johnson for President over the conservative Barry Goldwater but elected a conservative Republican, George Murphy, to the Senate over Pierre Salinger.
In an interview, Ms. Boxer attributed her troubles to the fact that the Republican, with $2.5 million from the National Republican Senatorial Committee, had been able to go on television two weeks ahead of her. His slashing advertisements attacked her overdrafts, recent absenteeism and support for a Congressional pay raise.
 
'I've Been Brutally Attacked'
 "It's been as tough as I thought it would be," she said. "I've been brutally attacked day after day. These are negative attacks meant to cover up the differences. He's trying to cover up his own record and the issues."
In recent days, Ms. Boxer's advertisements have avoided direct attacks. Her latest advertisement extols her commitment to education. The Republican's new commercial attempts to smooth the hard edges, saying he wants to protect the environment "not the bureaucrats who give us absurd regulations."
On the campaign trail, Mr. Herschensohn, who never attended college, articulates his principles with bluntness.
On environmental protection: "Now we have the gnat-catcher and the Stevens kangaroo rat and a possible loss of 100,000 to 200,000 jobs. The rat isn't worth one Californian's job to me. Do you even know what they look like?" (In an exception that is perhaps particularly appropriate for a candidate who portrays himself as a superpatriot, Mr. Herschensohn does advocate Federal protection to save the bald eagle.)
 
Odd Political Career
 On the Los Angeles riots: "It isn't economic deprivation that causes people to do that. It is a terribly bad character."
Mr. Herschensohn's is one of the odder political careers in America. The son of a doctor who migrated to Los Angeles from Milwaukee when he was 8 years old, Mr. Herschensohn eschewed college, taking a job as a messenger with RKO Pictures and ultimately becoming a documentary film maker, joining the United States Information Agency in 1968.
There he made admiring films on John F. Kennedy, Vice President Spiro Agnew and Mr. Nixon, but ultimately had to resign in 1972 after he publicly called Senator J. W. Fulbright, who was then chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, "very naive and stupid." But he soon turned up as deputy special assistant to President Nixon at the White House. According to Nixon archive documents distributed by the Boxer campaign, he tried to defend the President against impeachment and argued against resignation until the very end.
He returned to Los Angeles and joined KABC, taking time out to make a losing primary bid for the Senate in 1986 and then ran again this year, when he beat Representative Tom Campbell, a more moderate Republican, in a three-way race.
 
'I Will Not Compromise'
 "After talking about issues, national and international, for the past 13 years, you feel frustrated in not being able to do something about them," he said in the interview. "You do reach a point of saying, 'I don't only want to try to influence, I want to actually do these things.' "
But just how much he could accomplish is a big question. He would not be a deal maker. "I will not compromise on matters of principle," he said. "I am not one for pork. I want the Federal Government out of the act."
His views on environmental protection illustrate his philosophy: "I have no problem with the Federal Government giving guidance. But I have great difficulty with its doing the kinds of things it has done, like the Endangered Species Act, like the idea of going on private property and saying there's a puddle and it's a wetland and you cannot do what you want with this land any more. That Endangered Species Act has got to have a prologue that the human species takes precedence over any other species." He said he would leave environmental rules up to individual states.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bruce Herschensohn campaigning this week in Seal Beach, Calif. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Barbara Boxer, the Democratic candidate for the United States Senate from California, was surrounded by students when she arrived on Monday for a campaign rally at a business school in Los Angeles. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL REPUBLICAN SENATORIAL COMMITTEE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL REPUBLICAN SENATORIAL COMMITTEE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); STUDENT HOUSING (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (69%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (66%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (66%); ABORTION (66%); WEATHER (64%); RIOTS (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (57%); ARMED FORCES (50%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); BARBARA BOXER (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (73%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1992



802 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 24, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: E. F. Denison, Economist, 76; Devised G.N.P.

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

 BODY:
Edward F. Denison, an economist who was an expert on national income and production, died yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 76 years old.
The cause of death was not determined, but he had suffered from heart disease, his family said. 
 Mr. Denison served for 18 years as an official in the United States Commerce Department, working at various times in the Roosevelt, Truman, Eisenhower, Carter and Reagan Administrations. For 30 years he also worked for the Brookings Institution, a nonpartisan economics and public policy research organization.
In the 1940's and 50's, Mr. Denison was credited with developing the measurement of the United States gross national product, which in turn became the basis for similar calculations in other nations. His colleagues in that project included Milton Gilbert, George Jaszi and Charles F. Schwartz.
 
Impacts on Productivity
 Expanding on his work at Brookings in the 1960's, he developed new studies on the causes of economic growth, including increased capital, improved education of workers and scientific and technological advances. His methods and analyses were adopted by scholars around the world. His later research looked at the effect on productivity of factors like dishonesty, tax law revisions, energy costs and government regulations like pollution control and worker safety.
Despite his detailed findings, he also acknowledged that some causes of economic trends remained "a mystery."
Mr. Denison was a former vice president of the American Economic Association, executive committee chairman of the Conference on Research in Income and Wealth and member of the governing board of the National Economists Club. He wrote several books and numerous articles.
Born in Omaha, he grew up in Oak Park, Ill. After graduating from Oberlin College in 1936, he earned a master's degree in economics in 1938 and a doctorate in 1941, both at Brown University.
At the Commerce Department he was an economist and the acting chief of the National Income Division from 1941 to 1948, assistant director of the Business Economics Office from 1949 to 1956 and associate director of National Economic Accounts from 1979 to 1982. At Brookings he was a research fellow in 1939 and 1940, a senior fellow from 1962 to 1978 and an active senior fellow emeritus since 1982.
At the end of World War II, he studied the effects of Allied bombing on Germany. In 1951 he graduated from the National War College.
Surviving are his wife of 51 years, the former Elsie Lightbown; a son, Edward B. Denison of Palatine, Ill.; a daughter, State Senator Janet Howell of Reston, Va.; two sisters, Edna Ferguson and Miriam Burton, both of Seattle, and four grandchildren.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Obituary (Obit)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (51%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL INCOME DIV (61%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (54%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (54%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (51%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CHILDREN (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (77%); WORLD WAR II (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); TRENDS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%); TAX LAW (66%); 

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1992



803 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 7; Page 9; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: Where Are All the Happy Endings?

BYLINE: By Walter Goodman; Walter Goodman is a television critic for The New York Times.

 BODY:

HOLLYWOOD VS. AMERICA
Popular Culture and the War on Traditional Values.
By Michael Medved.
386 pp. New York:
HarperCollins Publishers. $20. 
 MICHAEL MEDVED, a movie reviewer seen on public television, writes as though to the blurb born. His style is shrill and sanctimonious, and his book reeks of the us-vs.-them (and sometimes the me-vs.-them) spirit that resounded through the Republican National Convention. Still, the man is on to something, although he manages to muddle what it is.
To begin with the familiar, "Hollywood vs. America" takes the perpetrators of movies, television shows and rap music to task for churning out ever more violence, sex and profanity. Although the studies he cites can be silly -- it is reported that violent acts occurred on television "some 55 times more frequently than they did in the real world" -- viewers can attest that big screens and small are generously besplattered.
Mr. Medved, who is not too particular when casting about for evidence to support a position, also cites a few studies that suggest that watching violence may lead to its commission. That remains highly problematic. But his assumption that relentless exposure to on-screen violence, sex and profanity must have some effect, and not a salubrious one, is more plausible than the denials of their marketers that anything they turn out could possibly influence anybody.
The fresher part of "Hollywood vs. America" has to do with those good old values. Mr. Medved decries what he calls "The Assault on the Family." The chapter headings make up his bill of indictment: "Promoting Promiscuity," "Maligning Marriage," "Encouraging Illegitimacy," "Kids Know Best." An entire section of the book is given to "The Attack on Religion."
Mr. Medved says he is against censorship and wants only balance: more movies with heroes -- especially American heroes -- happy families, happy endings and religion. (He does not fail to mention, more than once, that he and his family are observant Jews.) He looks back fondly to the era when the big studios followed "eminently reasonable guidelines" that forbade treating any religious faith, ceremony, minister, priest, rabbi or mullah disrespectfully, and leaves the impression that "Going My Way" is a better movie than "True Confessions."
For a professional reviewer, he shows little interest in esthetic distinctions. By his accounting, for instance, violence -- whether in "Silence of the Lambs" or "Goodfellas" or in all the "Terminators" and their ilk -- is violence. He acknowledges that "Silence of the Lambs" was exceedingly well acted and directed, but his bottom line in this case is moral uplift.
The book's running theme is that Hollywood's view of America is very different from the views of most Americans. For one thing, it is skewed emphatically to what Mr. Medved calls the loony left. Who besides studio press agents can dispute that?
But he goes farther, offering figures to demonstrate that movies that run contrary to strongly held values do not make so much money as those that carry a more conventional message, and that violence, sex and profanity are keeping people away from the box office and the tube. His essential measure of success is an accountant's: the box-office failure of "The Last Temptation of Christ" is treated as a moral judgment. But he glides over the millions raked in by all those "Terminators," "Die Hards," "Rambos" and "Robocops" as well as hit shows like "The Simpsons" and "Married . . . With Children." He has trouble deciding whether Hollywood is too successful at corrupting America or not successful enough.
As Mr. Medved keeps pointing out, studio heads and producers do live in a very special world: Woody Allen's jokes, which seem so funny in New York and Los Angeles, fall flat in most other places. But laying Hollywood's economic problems so heavily to bicoastal provincialism omits too much. The industry is grappling with profound changes in its role, in the sources of entertainment and in the mass audience. Today, movies and television have to grab the attention of sizable groups deeply divided by age, education, income and other factors. The job is more complicated than in Mr. Medved's philosophy.
Instead of addressing such matters, Mr. Medved goes in for anecdotes, alliteration ("a preference for the perverse," "a bias for the bizarre," "counterculture's comprehensive conquest") and quotations from congenial critics to cook up this couscous.
The book's spirit is expressed in its epigraph from Frank Capra's self-celebrating and untrustworthy autobiography, "The Name Above the Title": "Only the morally courageous are worthy of speaking to their fellow men for two hours in the dark. And only the artistically incorrupt will earn and keep the people's trust." This is not only blather; it also makes nonsense of Capra's own work, which was chronically compromised by deferring to what the audience was willing to take. But that is exactly what Mr. Medved seems to admire.
His contention that Hollywood is self-destructing is startling. By that assessment, the moguls who have been pilloried for decades for producing for profit, pandering to the lowest common denominator and so forth are in fact willing to lose money to advance their preferred causes and to liberate the creative energies of directors and writers, which is what most critics have been demanding since movies began.
But not Mr. Medved. He instructs the producers that it "makes little sense to give needless offense to any significant segment of the moviegoing public." Thanks. His lamentation that "the old struggle between art and commerce has tilted decisively in the direction of art" is not meant sarcastically.
I don't know that there is much to choose between the puerile populism of Mr. Medved and that of the Hollywoodniks he challenges here. It would be like taking sides when Gorgo the Dinosaur meets Mothra the Giant Moth. I'll settle for a good movie.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: HOLLYWOOD VS AMERICA (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FAMILY (89%); RELIGION (88%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (84%); CENSORSHIP (78%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (77%); HIP HOP CULTURE (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); JEWS & JUDAISM (67%); INDICTMENTS (67%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (56%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (56%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (56%); RAP MUSIC (55%); 

PERSON: GOODMAN, WALTER; MEDVED, MICHAEL MICHAEL MEDVED (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



804 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 2; Page 11; Column 3; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: FILM;
A Director Crosses the Line Into a Reality of . . . More Lines

BYLINE: By KAREN SCHOEMER

 BODY:
Anthony Drazan has come home again. On a bright October afternoon, the director and writer of "Zebrahead" is taking a tour of his old neighborhood in Cedarhurst, L. I., just a few miles over the border from Queens. He is going back to visit some of the scenes that inspired the film, giving a tour of the divergent black and white neighborhoods.
"Zebrahead," which opened in Manhattan on Friday, is the story of a white Jewish teen-ager named Zack whose best friend is black and who winds up dating Nikki, a black girl, in high school. The film played for two nights at this year's New York Film Festival. There, it received some mixed reviews, and a great deal of attention: for Mr. Drazan's enormous good fortune with this, his first movie, and for its exploration of racial issues.Because Mr. Drazan, a white man, has made a film about black-and-white relationships. 
 Much of the $2 million movie is autobiographical, and Mr. Drazan, who is 37 years old, had been working on the script for several years. In 1990 the story came to the attention of the director Oliver Stone, who agreed to serve as executive producer. "Zebrahead" eventually won the Film maker's Award at the 1992 Sundance Film Festival, and Mr. Drazan is now involved in a deal to direct two pictures for Steven Spielberg's production company.
On today's tour through Cedarhurst, the car is being driven by Chuck Mitchell, who served as one of the producers on "Zebrahead" and who at the moment is taking Mr. Drazan's soft-spoken but very specific directions on where and when to turn. Mr. Drazan narrates: "This is Rockaway Boulevard. This is a very commercial sector. You can see there's a row of gas stations on the left-hand side, tanks over on the right."
The car turns off the boulevard and the neighborhood abruptly changes. "What you have here is single-family homes," Mr. Drazan says. "You can get a little flavor of the kind of suburb we're talking about: one block off the commercial district, 20 minutes from the inner city."
"Zebrahead" is similarly set in the no man's land between urban and suburban. The teen-age Zack, played by Michael Rapaport, identifies strongly with black music and culture. He listens to hip-hop and his speech has a pronounced urban lilt, although the film does not use hip-hop music as an engine for its plot. "I didn't want to make a hip-hop film," Mr. Drazan says. "As a film maker I felt the choice was clear: to deromanticize elements, and keep it simple and stark."
Zack's best friend, Dee, is black; both Zack and Dee are from middle-class families. The high school the boys attend in "Zebrahead" includes students from a variety of social and ethnic backgrounds. The director videotaped hours of conversations between students in the lunch room of a Yonkers high school and translated some of those conversations directly into the film -- specifically a conversation among black teen-age girls on the subject of dating white boys. Black and white, male and female, upper middle class and lower middle class -- "Zebrahead" is about crossing the lines.
When Mr. Drazan was growing up in Cedarhurst, his best childhood friend, Douglas, was black. At the time, Mr. Drazan's neighborhood was not integrated. For the most part, two decades later, that line of demarcation remains sharply drawn. Mr. Drazan directs the car back across Rockaway Boulevard, to the other side of the commercial zone. The car literally crosses a set of railroad tracks, and the neighborhood shifts again. The economic conditions noticeably deteriorate.
When he was in his teens, Mr. Drazan moved away from Cedarhurst. He graduated from the New York University film school in 1985, and in 1987 brought the script of "Zebrahead" to a workshop at Robert Redford's Sundance Institute. Soon afterward, he met Mr. Mitchell. At one point, Mr. Drazan took Mr. Mitchell on the Cedarhurst tour. "I thought, 'This guy's got a movie,' " Mr. Mitchell says. "Because what you always look for is that sense of place that defines a whole set of characters."
An early version of the script was set on Long Island, but air traffic from nearby John F. Kennedy Airport would have interfered with shooting, so Mr. Drazan scouted dozens of Northeastern and Midwestern areas looking for his hometown's critical, semi-urban, cross-racial mix. (He found it in Detroit, where the film was shot.)
In casting "Zebrahead," Mr. Drazan chose unknowns for all the teen-age roles. DeShonn Castle, a rapper who plays Dee, was discovered at the Yonkers high school where Mr. Drazan was doing research. N'Bushe Wright, who plays Nikki, is a dancer from the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn. Ron Johnson, who plays Nut, the volatile young character who vies for Nikki's affections, is a rapper from South-Central Los Angeles. The naturalistic performances have earned good notices.
Mr. Johnson says that at the film festival "people would walk up to me and congratulate me, saying, 'That was good how you brought that across.' But that's how I felt." As Mr. Rapaport says, "If you look at Ron, look at me or look at DeShonn, we're all close to our characters."
Mr. Drazan directs the car down a narrow street in the black neighborhood. "My friend Douglas lived in the second house in, over there," he says. "I would imagine that Doug and I hit it off because he sat in the back left corner of the classroom and that's where I felt comfortable sitting too. I lost my mother when I was young, so I had a strong feeling of alienation from the mainstream. Anybody who's gone through something like that feels just completely different and outside. It's hard to fit in."
In "Zebrahead," issues of race and identity ultimately shatter the fragile balance within the high school community. But ultimately Mr. Drazan believes that the bonds of friendship are much harder to break. "Zack and Dee have a true friendship that's built on a lot of things," he says, "and not just identification of a cultural sort."
In Cedarhurst, a few places are vacated or boarded up. Although it is the middle of a weekday afternoon, many people are on the street, hanging out in front yards or sitting on porches. "This is Nassau County," says Mr. Drazan. "This is the suburbs. This is a stone's throw away from New York. This," he adds with calculated irony, "is the Deep South."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael Rapaport and N'Bushe Wright in "Zebrahead" -- An uneasy alliance. (Sony Pictures)(pg. 11); Anthony Drazan, director of "Zebrahead" -- The movie is an exploration of friendship and race. (Sony Pictures)(pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: ZEBRAHEAD (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION WRITERS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); FILM (90%); FESTIVALS (89%); HIP HOP CULTURE (86%); RAP MUSIC (83%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); SUBURBS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (76%); ADOLESCENTS (75%); GAS STATIONS (71%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (69%); CITY LIFE (60%); 

PERSON: DRAZAN, ANTHONY; SCHOEMER, KAREN STEVEN SPIELBERG (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



805 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 2; Page 28; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1903 words

HEADLINE: PHOTOGRAPHY VIEW;
Reading the Candidates' Family Portraits

BYLINE: By Charles Hagen; Charles Hagen writes frequently about photography and art.

 BODY:
IN THE MIX OF ACTIONS, IDEAS AND pageantry that makes up a Presidential race, two parallel campaigns vie for voters' attention. One is the explicit campaign of issues, while the other, equally important, deals with images and symbols. This year, candidates' families have played a central role in this other campaign of symbols. Using a complex mix of media, including official portraits, staged photo opportunities and elaborate video biographies, candidates have presented themselves and their families, in an effort to convince voters of their character, and their ordinariness.
The official start of the campaign of images, like that of issues, comes at the conventions. It is here, in a now traditional moment at such gatherings, that the theme of family is first made explicit. The candidates stand on the podium in a blaze of television lights, flanked by their wives, children, grandchildren, parents, even brothers and sisters. Lined up like the cast of an opera taking a curtain call, they offer themselves as an admirable example of the American family, given vivid and dramatic form. 
 In the weeks since the conventions, the candidates and their families have been shown in innumerable photographs and on television, engaged in symbolic activities designed to signal their adherence to middle-class values and win voter approval. Following a familiar strategy, the campaigns have linked the candidates to appealing stereotypes of family life, in effect trying to convince voters that the candidates are just like them -- only more so.
As the French critic Roland Barthes wrote in "Mythologies," his classic study of popular culture, photographs of candidates "offer to the voter his own likeness, but clarified, exalted, superbly elevated into a type." As a result, these images often end up saying less about the candidates and their families than about the voters themselves.
The public perception of President and Mrs. Bush as surrogate grandparents to the nation -- what Newsweek called the President's "gampy mode" -- is strikingly reinforced by the official White House portrait of the first family. In it the Bushes appear surrounded by no fewer than 22 children and grandchildren, all neatly lined up and dressed in their Sunday best.
But it is in photographic coverage of Mrs. Bush that the gampy (or gammy) mode shifts into high gear. With her matronly bearing, famous white hair and beaming smile, she seems like a wise and caring Sunday school teacher, and she is often photographed reading to groups of children. These pictures serve the practical purpose of promoting literacy programs, but they also reinforce her motherly image.
In combining marriage, motherhood and a career, Hillary Clinton's life is not all that unusual today. Despite this, she -- or her handlers -- still feels the need to project something of the image of a traditional housewife. Throughout the campaign she, too, has often been photographed in "caring" roles, whether speaking with young cancer patients, showing off her chocolate chip cookies or gazing adoringly at her husband.
Given Mrs. Clinton's reputation for independence, it is not surprising that she and her husband are often depicted in echoing poses. When Time magazine ran a cover article about the "Hillary Factor," it featured a large close-up of the Clintons standing together, seen in profile. With their matching expressions of serious concern, the two look a little as if they're about to be carved onto a coin.
Another picture in the Time story probably reflected many people's misgivings about Mrs. Clinton's personality. It showed her wearing a black cowboy hat and dark glasses, scowling into the camera.
The portentously titled video biography of her husband, "The Man From Hope," produced for the convention by the Clinton campaign, betrays no such ambivalence in its celebration of Clinton family life. Productions of this sort have almost become a campaign requirement. A similar video self-portrait of Vice President Quayle was shown at the Republican convention, as part of his announced attempt to redefine his image.
Both Mr. Clinton and Mr. Quayle feature their families prominently in these video self-portraits. The two works are drenched in nostalgia and use similar techniques. Blurry home movies of the candidates as children are mixed with black-and-white snapshots and interviews in which the candidates, their wives and other family members offer anecdotes to emphasize how ordinary their childhoods were -- even if they weren't.
Thus Mr. Quayle's video makes no mention of his family's wealth but includes home movies showing him learning to roller skate and a snapshot of his father standing in front of their unassuming ranch-style house, holding him as a baby.
It comes as no surprise that in Mr. Clinton's video a host of family members testify to his good character. The tape emphasizes his small-town roots through the use of old photographs and home movies. In a nice touch, the tape also incorporates shots from home videos that show Mr. Clinton dancing with his 12-year-old daughter, Chelsea, the two of them throwing stones into a pond, and Chelsea, in a long white dress, curtsying in shy delight for the camera.
These sentimental images, which could have been lifted from a commercial for camcorders, serve to blunt questions viewers may have about the effect Mr. Clinton's rumored infidelity has had on his daughter. At the same time, they show the Clintons engaging in a common ritual of contemporary middle-class life.
Even Ross Perot, despite his announced refusal to play the game of images, apparently felt the need to let the country in on his (humble) family background. In the closing weeks of the campaign, he aired a half-hour television show about himself and his family. Like his charts-and-pointer talks on the economy, this was short on production values and long on folksiness.
While Mr. Perot reminisced about his childhood in Texarkana, Tex., his service in the Navy and his early career working for I.B.M., snapshots flashed on the screen. Mr. Perot appeared as a boy, standing with his parents or on a seesaw or a horse. Other pictures showed him as a cadet at the Naval Academy, and with his wife shortly after their marriage. In all, the experience was much like that of looking through a family album with a cantankerous uncle telling anecdotes about each shot.
When Mr. Clinton selected Senator Al Gore as his running mate, he added a curious twist to the usual campaign scenario. Because the Clintons and the Gores are in many ways similar, they give the impression they could be neighbors. This sense of closeness was furthered by the now-famous bus tour of the Midwest the candidates and their wives took just after the convention.
On this trip the Clintons and the Gores seemed almost like two couples off on vacation, journeying in their mobile home into the heart of America. News photographs of them sipping sodas on the bus or appearing on stages together, passing the microphone back and forth, were like slides of a neighbor's trip to Disney World. The tour underscored the conceit that candidates and their families are just regular folks.
Perhaps because of the appeal of the resulting images, the bus tour has become one of the central symbolic events of the campaign, and has spawned imitators. Several members of the Bush family, including Barbara Bush, her daughter, Doro Bush Koch, and others, recently toured Wisconsin on a bus, while Senator Gore's parents, along with Hillary Clinton's mother, embarked on what the Democrats billed as the "Senior Bus Tour" through New Jersey.
WHILE THE BUS TOUR provides an updated version of the time-honored whistle-stop campaign, the use of candidates' families for symbolic purposes is by no means a recent development. One of the most popular images of Abraham Lincoln, taken at Mathew Brady's studio in 1864, showed him seated in an armchair, a large book in his hands, with his young son Tad leaning on a nearby table.
James D. Horan, in his biography "Mathew Brady: Historian With a Camera," quotes a journalist of the time who reported that Lincoln worried about the fact that the scene was a setup. People might think that he was "making believe reading the Bible to Tad," Lincoln said, when in fact he was holding a photographic album. Despite Lincoln's reservations, an engraving of the photograph was featured in Harper's Weekly shortly after his assassination and the picture was later widely reproduced as a lithograph.
In ensuing years, families assumed an increasingly important role in the public image of Presidential candidates. With the rise of mass media and the growing popularity of behind-the-scenes views of candidates and their families, voters were offered increasingly detailed, if not always accurate, reports about Presidents' families. First Ladies in particular, from Eleanor Roosevelt to Mamie Eisenhower to Rosalynn Carter and Nancy Reagan, were all assigned distinctive characters in the public mind, with the press supplying photographic evidence to support those impressions.
Enlisting a President's family to boost his public image reached a new intensity with the election of John F. Kennedy. The Kennedys provided the country with a ready-made soap opera, complete with attractive main characters, an extensive and colorful supporting cast, and the real-life drama of national affairs. In many ways, the most enduring images of the Kennedy years have been of family scenes, whether of John John running to greet his father or peeking out from beneath his desk in the Oval Office or of the President sailing with his daughter, Caroline. Featured in such mass-market picture magazines as Life and Look, these photographs provided an especially intimate view of the First Family.
Presidents since then have tended to submit to the public's hunger for images reflecting their family life. These days, though, candidates have begun to place limits on the use of their families for publicity purposes. The Clintons have largely shielded their daughter from media attention, refusing to allow her to be interviewed. Even when People magazine ran a photograph of Chelsea on its cover this summer, the accompanying story included no quotes from her. Mr. Perot's wife and children, too, have for the most part stayed out of the limelight.
Despite these hints of change, images of the candidates' families remain a staple in media coverage of the campaigns. Like much else in a Presidential race, these pictures offer a blend of reality and symbolism. Images of this sort serve mainly to confirm voters' preconceptions -- to tell them what they think they already know.
This is true even for news photographs, which might be expected to provide another view. The news photographs that stick most firmly in the public mind are those that confirm pre-existing opinions, and in classic chicken-and-egg fashion, it is these very pictures that photographers tend to take, and editors to publish.
As a result, coverage of the candidates' families, whether photographic or on television, more often than not is conservative and simplistic, both reflecting and reinforcing public attitudes. In the intricate game of images and reality that is at the heart of any campaign, everyone -- candidates, editors and the public -- tends to reach for the reassuringly familiar.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Eisenhowers of Pennsylvania, 1953-61 -- The voter's own likeness, but "clarified, exalted, superbly elevated into a type." (National Park Service/Dwight D. Eisenhower Library); The Nixons of California, 1969-74 -- Lined up like the cast of an opera taking a curtain call, the family given dramatic form. (National Archives); The Carters of Georgia, 1977-81 -- Trying to convince voters that the candidates are just like them, only more so. (Jimmy Carter Library)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (59%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (59%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (US) ELECTIONS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GRANDPARENTS (77%); MARRIAGE (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (76%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (76%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (63%); 

PERSON: HAGEN, CHARLES HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



806 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 2; Page 30; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION VIEW;
On 'Roseanne,' The Recession Is a Laugh Riot

BYLINE: By Walter Goodman

 BODY:
With gloomy news about the economy filling the nightly news, the talk shows and the campaign documentaries, it is a pleasure to announce that the Conners are having a good recession. Yes, Dan's motorcycle shop conked out to begin the season, which sent Mark, his young helper, and daughter Becky eloping to Minneapolis, where a job awaits. Roseanne can't get work of her own; there are squabbles over money, problems with mortgage payments and worries about the electricity bill. (The telephone still operates, or how would a sitcom get along?) But the main thing is that the wisecracks keep coming and ratings stay high.
Making jokes out of dire circumstances is a treasured American characteristic, a way to cope and no doubt a sign of mental health. Probably that is how Roseanne's nearest and dearest, punchy from punchlines, manage to stay on this side of neurosis. "I knew we shouldn't have gone into business for ourselves," Roseanne says to Dan by way of commiseration. "There's no one to steal from." 
 But whereas in life, gags may be a cushion against hard knocks, in a sitcom the knocks are merely occasions for the gags. You can be sure that nothing too drastic will happen to the Conners; that's the difference between a sitcom and a soap opera. When, a few weeks ago, Becky, that good girl, became upset enough to attack dear old Dad for ruining her life by his incompetence, it struck a shrill and false note, and in a moment the show went back to snappier tunes.
Be assured that Dan and Roseanne Conner will survive the tough times without losing too much sleep or a single pound. (I imagine Roseanne Arnold and John Goodman are contractually obligated by ABC to maintain a certain heft.) Even if they have to go through their savings, they will be yakking it up all the way from the bank. "I like the kids poor," cracks Roseanne. "That way they don't fight to be the favorite."
The reality quotient in "Roseanne" seems high: the house at Third and Delaware, Lanford, Ill., Middle America, is busy and crowded; the inmates can hardly stay out of one another's way. Somebody is always doing the laundry or fixing a meal or gobbling junk food while staring at the tube. But this is camouflage. The world is not allowed to strike too deep. Spirits never flag, even when the cable service is in jeopardy. Roseanne is able to joke about not getting hired after waiting around for hours for an interview for a job that requires no skill or experience. The show is brilliant at coaxing audience empathy without risk of making anyone too depressed to watch.
Anyhow, just in case anybody out there was brooding over the Conners' prospects as the recession slogs along, who should show up but Roseanne's take-charge mom. Not only is she a great target for mother and mother-in-law jokes, but she also brings with her two checks for $10,000 each, for Roseanne and her sister, Jackie. Talk about points of light! And President Bush would be overjoyed to learn that the family is investing in a loose-meat restaurant, whatever that is. Small business may yet save the country.
For a moment, when the gift was handed over, Roseanne seemed downright earnest: "Mom, you have no idea how much this means to us now." But a breath later, she was back in form. Grabbing the check from her daughter Darlene, everybody's favorite awful teen-ager, she said: "Give me that check. You're drooling the zeros off it."
So the crisis, if it was a crisis, seems to be ebbing. As Roseanne has put it, "Poverty is grand, but we've tried that." Although she could not obtain a bank loan for the restaurant last Tuesday, the deus ex mamma came through with more money. But now she wants to be a full partner, which means -- and this is the important point -- that Roseanne will have Mom to kick around for a while longer.
Has the experience affected the Conners' political inclinations, as it seems to have affected those of millions of their fellow citizens? Well, you can't tell. Roseanne is no blue-collar Murphy Brown. Politics is not much discussed at the Conners' dinner table, even though it lends itself to the put-downs that are the family's favorite dish. The Conners didn't even seem to notice that some of their usual television shows were pre-empted by the campaign debates. The Simpsons are more politically aware.
Can it be that indifference to public issues is one of the elements, along with the dependable one-liners and the cluttered ambiance, that keeps fans coming back to "Roseanne"? In the throes of a tube-saturating Presidential campaign, even people who vote may take comfort in the weekly visit to one household where George Bush and Bill Clinton will never be household words.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Roseanne Arnold in ABC's "Roseanne" -- No blue-collar Murphy Brown, even when the electricity is turned off. (Viacom Entertainment)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: ROSEANNE (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (77%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%); MIDWEST USA (77%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION TELEVISION COMEDIES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); MENTAL HEALTH (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (71%); 

PERSON: GOODMAN, WALTER ROSEANNE CONNER (98%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



807 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1747 words

HEADLINE: Recession Dictates Renovation

BYLINE: By NICK RAVO

 BODY:
ADDITIONS to Manhattan's skyline may have all but stopped, evidence of the severe recession ravaging the world of commercial real estate these days. But scores of office buildings are being repaired, renovated and reconfigured as landlords, faced with an increasingly competitive market, strive to make their properties as attractive as possible.
The capital improvements -- which, in many cases, are designed to keep old tenants as much as lure new ones -- are esthetic (installing new floors, facades, walls and windows), efficient (improving access for the disabled and replacing old elevators, bathrooms, electrical and telecommunications systems) and environmentally conscious (installing new heating, air-conditioning and security systems and removing asbestos). 
 The renovations themselves are just as varied. They include a $12 million overhaul of the security system at Rockefeller Center and a $30 million modernizing of the 60-story One Chase Manhattan Plaza at Liberty, Pine, Williams and Nassau Streets in lower Manhattan.
And then there are the smaller buildings, such as the 24-story, 350,000-square-foot structure at 90 West Street in the heart of the financial district in lower Manhattan and the 21-story Art Deco office tower across the street from the empty former B. Altman department store near the Empire State Building at 16 East 34th Street.
"Basically, our building was in a state of disrepair and neglect when we acquired it," said Nancy Ann Peck, the president of S.L. Green Real Estate, of Manhattan, which in a joint venture with clients of Loeb Partners Realty, also of Manhattan, bought the 360,000 square-foot building at 16 East 34th Street late last year. "So, to change the image and create new interest in the project, we launched a major rejuvenation program."
CAPITAL improvements have become particularly commonplace in the financial district, where vacancy rates are high because banks, financial houses and brokerage firms, feeling the effects of the recession and the aftermath of the 1987 stock market crash, have cut their staffs and office-space needs.
According to Cushman & Wakefield, the vacancy rate for office buildings in downtown Manhattan in the third quarter of 1992 was 20.1 percent, up from 18.7 percent in 1991 For mid-Manhattan, it was 17.2 percent, virtually unchanged from the 17.3 percent vacancy rate last year. By comparison, the vacancy rates for both mid-Manhattan and downtown in 1986 were 9.8 percent.
At One Chase Manhattan Plaza, renovations began last year when the entire exterior of the structure was cleaned. And three months ago, the building began removing asbestos. Future plans call for upgrading elevators, installing new bathrooms, floors, ceilings, lighting, heating and cooling systems and turning the lobby into a more dramatic two-story area. The building was built in 1960 and designed by the New York office of Skidmore Owings & Merrill, which is also handling the renovations.
"We wanted to keep our building in a class A category, and in order to do that we realized we had to look at the lobby and renovate it, not only for our tenants, but for us," said Edward A. Rytter, vice president and director of facilities for Chase Manhattan Bank. "There is no question that having a lobby that is current and attractive is an enhancement to the tenants that are there and well as any prospective tenants."
On a smaller scale in lower Manhattan, the Galbreath Company, of Manhattan, is spending $7 million to renovate the 37-story, 950,000 square-foot building at 14 Wall Street. Plans include a new design for the main entrance, a new main lobby, new common corridors with marble, brass and custom lighting fixtures and the restoration of an 8,000 square-foot penthouse restaurant in a former apartment of J.P. Morgan. The company, which is managing the building for its owner, General Electric Investments, is also replacing the building's windows and elevator cabs and upgrading its electrical system. The work is scheduled to be completed early next year.
"Our belief is that if we make the property somewhat more distinctive, we would draw more tenants," said John Wheeler, a managing director of Galbreath.
Nearby, a Dutch partnership called FGP 90 West Street, is spending $4 million to renovate 90 West Street, a historic 24-story, 350,000 square-foot office building. The project includes a refurbishing of the lobby, new elevator systems and upgraded common space and bathrooms, as well as a new copper mansard roof with gold-painted highlights.
The property, which is directly south of the World Trade Center and was built in 1905 by Cass Gilbert, the designer of the Woolworth building, had been in foreclosure and receivership for two years before being acquired by the partnership last year. It is also managed by Galbreath.
Since the takeover, the vacancy rate of the building has dropped from 40 to 30 percent. "Tenants in the building that have lived through the receivership and the foreclosure are extremely happy," said Karla Beth Kudatsky, associate director of leasing for Galbreath. "We have leased since last November in excess of 80,000 square feet, which is a remarkable figure because of the market."
At 55 Broad Street, near Wall Street, which was left nearly vacant last year after the anchor tenant, Drexel Burnham Lambert, filed for bankruptcy protection, the lobbies have been renovated, the elevators upgraded and all the asbestos from the building has been removed.
The building is owned by the Rudin Management Company, which has further renovation plans but won't begin them until a major commitment is made by a new tenant. "But in marketing the building, we show the prospective tenants the drawings and the plans," said William C. Rudin, executive vice president of Rudin.
Capital improvements are also taking place in the suburbs, where the vacancy rates in office buildings are often even higher than they are in New York. In Fairfield County, Conn., for instance, the vacancy rate, according to Cushman & Wakefield, was 28.1 percent for the third quarter. In Westchester County, it was 27.3 percent.
BECAUSE credit is tight, though, much of the renovation, both in the city and the outlying region, is being undertaking by companies, usually larger ones, that can finance the work themselves. "They're not going outside for financing," said Bruce Fehey, president of McCann Inc., a Manhattan construction company.
Older buildings have the greatest need for remodeling because of their often awkward layouts and dated wiring systems. The higher levels of asbestos found in older buildings also makes them less competitive with newer properties. "The cost of removal is down 60 percent of what it used to be, and building owners are taking advantage of that," said Daniel J. Sitomir, a environmental lawyer in Manhattan. "It was $50 a square foot in 1985-86, now it's $13."
At 16 East 34th Street, which was built in 1929, recent renovation cost $7 million and included creating a new entrance on 34th Street, cleaning and painting the building's facade, replacing the windows, installing new bathrooms, repairing and restoring the lobby, installing a new concierge desk and new elevator cabs, laying a new roof on top of the older leaky, often-patched roof and upgrading the air-conditioning systems.
Ms. Peck said that since the renovation began 10 months ago, the vacancy rate in the building, whose tenants are mostly law firms, publishing houses and apparel makers, has dropped from 50 to 20 percent. Four floors are still vacant, as well as a small space facing the 33d Street entrance.
SHE added that a key part of the renovation was improving the electrical system. "The building didn't have adequate power for the current demand of office needs," Ms. Peck said. "We brought in 1,200 more amps; the prior service was about 5,000."
Indeed, not all the capital improvements being made these days are of the brick-and-mortar nature. A major consideration is customized communications systems that can accommodate the latest generation of telephones and computers. Some buildings require extensive alterations to accommodate the necessary wiring. Most buildings older than 10 years need some updating.
"Renovated exteriors and lobbies get prospective tenants in the door, but today's sophisticated users are delving below the surface for the technology their businesses increasingly require," said Harvey Brickman, senior vice president of Tishman Construction Corporation.
"It is a much more complex task to install new and integrated security, communications, life safety and environmental control systems in an existing building not designed for these systems than to include them in the design of a new structure," he added.
SECURITY, in particular, is a top priority for tenants these days, and the state-of-the-art system Tishman is installing in the Rockefeller Center buildings incorporates a broad range of features including identification card readers, infrared sensors, alarms, closed-circuit television cameras and monitors. It also has a computerization system that records all entries and alarms.
Tishman was also involved with renovating 575 Lexington Avenue, at 51st Street, a 34-year-old, 36-story, 589,000 square-foot office tower. The renovation's most dramatic aspect, which was completed in 1990, was the installation of a new curtain-wall system of sleek black heat-processed aluminum and glass over the outdated gold anodized aluminum facade. The building, which was renovated by the architect, Der Scutt, also features a new granite-and-glass entry with bronze trim and a state-of-the-art elevator system.
"You have to do this to be able to compete in a very tight market, to keep tenants and also to compete with getting any new tenants," said Vince Piscopo, a senior vice president at Tishman.
For companies like Tishman and McCann, renovation has helped them during a time when there is very little new construction. Mr. Fehey said his company was currently working on over a dozen commercial capital improvement projects in Manhattan, including a long-term project to upgrade the underground concourse at Rockefeller Center, between 47th and 51st Streets. The work began three years ago and will continue for several more years.
"It's work," Mr. Fehey said. "It's not enough to give us an upswing, but this kind of work would not be going on if our building needs outstripped our supply."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Scores of office buildings are being repaired or renovated as landlords strive to make their properties attractive in an increasingly competitive market. Such work is often done to retain old tenants as well as lure new ones. At 90 West Street, installing air ducts is part of a renovation. (John Sotomayor/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Owners of many office buildings are seeking greater efficiency. Drop ceilings and rewiring are parts of refurbishing this 90 West Street space. (John Sotomayor/The New York Times)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (50%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%); SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; RENTING AND LEASING OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); HVAC SYSTEMS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); ASBESTOS REMEDIATION (74%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (73%); DISABLED PERSONS (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); JOINT VENTURES (64%); 

PERSON: RAVO, NICK DAVID DAVIS (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



808 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: Perspectives: Industrial Space in Queens;
A Pleasant Time for Tenants on the Move

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER

 BODY:
"MY pet peeve is the occupancy tax," said Richard Zirinsky in the hearty voice of a man happy to describe himself as a salesman. "To pay 6 or 7 percent for the privilege of renting industrial or commercial space is silly."
With little prompting, this 77-year-old developer and owner of industrial and commercial space in Queens will take a swipe at electricity costs and taxes in New York City as well. They have pushed industrial tenants out of the city, he said. 
 But Mr. Zirinsky himself, chairman of Richard Zirinsky Associates, at 60 East 56th Street in Manhattan, has stayed. He and his late cousin Lawrence Zirinsky started buying industrial properties in the 40's, and now the Zirinskys own 12 buildings with over two million square feet in Long Island City, plus a handful elsewhere. They built properties for major corporations, selling some but keeping most, and they upgraded older buildings for distribution, light assembly and office space.
"You tend to do what you're used to doing," said Mr. Zirinsky. His son Richard Jr., 29, who is president of the firm, seems to like the approach. "When the city comes back, western Queens will follow," he said. "The key is patience right now."
What the Zirinskys have done over the years is to produce new or upgraded space at low cost for corporate users, among them Pfizer, DuPont and American Can. While that business is at bay, leasing activity grinds onward as companies merge or fold or merely move. Since recession causes contraction, availability expands and prices fall. The beneficiaries are the tenants who happen to be expanding.
"The market is terrible and that helped me tremendously because I'm in a very good building," said Randy Greenberg, manager of Crystal Art Gallery, which moved three weeks ago into two 50,000-square-foot floors at 58-30 Grand Avenue in Maspeth, just east of Long Island City. The company frames and distributes posters. It brought its 30 employees from 35,000 square feet "around the corner," Mr. Greenberg said.
Another company that marched into a favorable situation is Cowboy Brothers Trading. It leased the former Capitol Liquors warehouse building at 55-60 58th Street in Maspeth, taking a net lease for a 190,000-square-foot building with a ceiling 20 feet high and 17 loading platforms. The warehouse area is a supermarket for retailers of electronic and home appliances.
"The building was vacant almost two years while the owner was trying to lease it, but he kept seeking an above-market price as the market fell," said Richard Maltz, principal in Greiner-Maltz Company, a 39-year-old commercial and industrial brokerage in Long Island City. "He didn't recognize that the market was slipping away."
The leasing market for buildings of its quality was about $6.25 a square foot per year when it went on the market. That included about $1.25 a foot for real-estate taxes. Now the market for such a building is about $4.50 a square foot including taxes, Mr. Maltz said.
At that figure, the tenant leasing 100,000 square feet would be paying $37,500 a month in rent, of which property taxes of $1.25 a square foot would take $10,400, or 27 percent of the gross rent unless the owner succeeded in getting a reduction.
The Long Island City tenant pays an an occupancy tax of 4.2 percent of gross rent. With a gross rent of $4.50 a square foot, the tax is $18,900 a year for 100,000 square feet. The occupancy tax for commercial tenants used to be 6 percent citywide, but it was reduced by 30 percent for properties outside Manhattan, or north of 96th Street, in June 1989. "You have no idea how that tax sticks in people's craw," the elder Mr. Zirinsky said.
DEPENDING on quality and location, most one-story warehouse buildings can currently be leased at a rent between $2 to $3.50 a square foot per year, excluding taxes, according to Mr. Maltz. This is a drop of 25 to 35 percent from three years ago, he said. Real-estate taxes can add 75 cents to $1.50 a square foot to the base rent.
Greiner-Maltz's figures show that the vacancy rate for factory and warehouse space in western Queens was 12.77 percent in the third quarter of this year. Two years ago it was 11.4 percent. The total inventory of this space is 105.2 million square feet. The area embraces Long Island City, Maspeth, Astoria, College Point, Jackson Heights and Elmhurst.
In both Queens and Brooklyn, Greiner-Maltz finds a somewhat improved market this year. In Queens, for example, the 1.14 million square feet of sales and leasing in the third quarter represented the first time in over four years that activity exceeded one million square feet in back-to-back quarters.
"We're leasing at about the same rate that space is becoming available," Mr. Maltz said, "whereas in the past more space was becoming available that was being leased."
Mr. Zirinsky gave an account of where he stood as a developer of commercial space in Queens when the music stopped in the late 80's.
Encouraged by the growth of showrooms and large stores on Northern Boulevard in Sunnyside, he had bought the former Naarden Fragrance building at 43-23 37th Avenue. The purchase included 5.5 acres of vacant land, a potential construction site.
Encouraged as well by the 48-story Citicorp building at Court Square in Long Island City, he bought the nearby six-story 45-18 Court Square, formerly a Contadina tomato-paste plant, and renovated it for office use.
The office space is still on the market and no user has emerged for the Sunnyside site. But the marketing continues.
Zirinsky Associates has probably been the largest private investor in development property in Long Island City over the last 30 years. Many projects have been successes. In one case the company bought the 50,000-square-foot building at 30-10 41st Avenue and resold it to the Mainco Company, a maintenance firm. In another instance it bought the Volunteers of America building, at 23-10 43d Avenue, rehabilitated it and sold it to the Landes Bank, later bought by the Bank of Austria.
Other investors have taken the same approach, normally with smaller properties. Among these were John Werwaiss, the owner of many buildings in the 2,500-to-25,000-square-foot range. He bought, upgraded and rented out successfully, but stopped the process in the late 80's.
"He was smart," Mr. Maltz said.
Seymour Schuman, principal of Propper Manufacturing, a maker of medical instruments in Long Island City, also started buying in 70's. He upgraded lesser properties and has wound up with a sizable inventory.
Rents have to start approaching $7 or $8 a square foot -- excluding real estate taxes -- for developers to produce new space speculatively. That type of revival is also necessary for a renewal of hopes for more office or store development along the so-called Jackson Avenue corridor, south of Queens Plaza. It is probably a long way off. Right now tenants, often in service businesses, are starting to buy their own buildings, Mr. Maltz said, because for some owners lower rents and high taxes have made ownership too unattractive. Among the sellers are older people getting close to retirement.
The sellers have not included the Zirinskys. The prices have not been right, Mr. Zirinsky said.
"After paying the taxes, there would be very little left," he said.
But vacant buildings are worth more than occupied buildings.
"Users can get financing," he said, "but real estate people can't."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard Zirinsky, in his Manhattan office, started buying industrial properties in the 1940's and now owns 12 buildings in Long Island City. (Debra Dipeso for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (54%); PFE (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (54%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; RENTING AND LEASING INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (77%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (70%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); RETAILERS (68%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (63%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (50%); 

PERSON: ZIRINSKY, RICHARD MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



809 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: Talking: Budget Time;
For Co-ops, Rising Fees And Taxes

BYLINE: By ANDREE BROOKS

 BODY:
RISING fuel, insurance and water costs will need special attention during the 1993 budget preparation process now in full swing at most New York City co-ops.
Also needing study will be the impact of revenue shortfalls because of increasing delinquencies among shareholders and the decline of flip-tax revenue because of slower sales. Co-ops may also have to set aside funds for taxes that could be due under Section 277 of the Internal Revenue Code. 
 Also new to the budgetary process will be compliance with recent guidelines from the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. They require, at the least, a footnote explaining how future reserves are to be paid for. Although promulgated in August 1991, accountants say the guidelines took time to percolate through the system. Many co-ops did not modify their 1992 budgets and will be doing so for the first time this fall.
The item in greatest danger of gushing out of control is water costs. In 1988, New York City mandated a shift from a flat-rate system to metering. Since then, meters have slowly been installed around the city and dozens of buildings are likely to feel the full brunt of the changeover in 1993.
Managers are recommending a line item increase for water costs of 20 percent on top of the customary 10 percent increase normally allocated, unless more accurate estimates of the effect of metering have already been made. If meters have already been installed, an increase of 3 percent over last year's total should be sufficient, said Anthony Colella, managing director of Tudor City Realty Services Corporation, which handles 23 buildings.
Insurance costs may also rise unexpectedly. Insurance agents warn that the downward slide in the cost of premiums over the last few years may be coming to an end.
Carla Vel, a vice president at Kaye Insurance Associates of Manhattan who specializes in co-op coverage, said insurance companies had taken a triple hit in the last year: first, mounting losses from real estate investments, then a decline in anticipated revenues caused by unusually low interest rates and finally the losses from Hurricane Andrew.
All this, she said, has created a drain on funds that will have to be reversed somehow. The most probable result, she predicts, will be renewed pressure on premium income. Co-ops that have recently joined large group pools hoping that escalating premiums were a thing of the past could also be affected. "Even a pool policy can go up," she said.
She suggests estimating 10 percent more than was paid last year, for everything -- insurance costs on the structure itself, liability and employee coverage.
Fuel oil and natural gas prices are also expected to rise. Oskar Brecher, president of Landmark Management Corporation, which manages 45 buildings, warned that fuel costs, like insurance premiums, had been exceptionally low in recent years. And together with a string of mild winters, they may have now created artificially low expectations.
He warned that recent predictions for an icy winter in 1993 plus a sudden spurt in the price of natural gas earlier in 1992 should serve as a signal that preliminary estimates for the coming winter may need to be raised. He recommended a rise of 15 percent over last year's usage unless major conservation efforts -- such as installing thermal windows or upgrading a burner system -- had been made in the interim.
The potential impact of I.R.S. Section 277 taxes, although not necessarily a new cost, should also be addressed. Section 277 was originally created to tax the income of industrial co-ops and membership organizations. But in the last few years the I.R.S. has begun applying it to residential co-ops, too. The Federal tax has led to state and city levies, all three totaling around 30 percent of any revenues generated from interest income or commercial rents.
HOWEVER, lawyers hope that current court challenges plus proposed modifications to the legislation will eventually make it clear that the tax is not applicable. Meanwhile, there has been mixed opinion on whether a co-op should pay only if required as a result of an audit.
Martin Marin, a partner with Marin & Montanye, accountants of Port Washington, L.I., who handle about 350 buildings, said most co-ops had simply been ignoring the issue. "They aren't even putting aside the money in case they're audited," he said, which may be a mistake, since the tax can be significant -- $16,000 on $50,000 worth of income.
He suggests temporarily setting aside a third of any taxable interest or rental income in a special fund to cover any possible demand. This way, in the event of an audit, reserves will not have to be raided.
Dennis Greenstein, a Manhattan lawyer who represents some 225 buildings, warned against including in the revenue column any income from flip taxes. In the last few years, he noted, many of his client buildings found this source to be increasingly unreliable.
Even using the average generated over the last three years, a favored method of late, may be overly optimistic. It's better, he said, to clear the item entirely from the budget and consider any flip-tax revenues a bonus, at least till the market picks up.
Mr. Greenstein also sounded the alarm on potential shortfalls resulting from the rise in shareholder delinquencies.
In the last few years more and more shareholders have been falling behind on monthly charges, and the resulting loss of anticipated maintenance fees, coupled with elevated collection costs, is now making a significant dent in income.
He recommends using the average size of the losses and the costs of debt collection over the last three years and make the appropriate adjustments for 1993 before they create havoc with cash flow.
Finally, the good news. Most experts are not expecting significant increases in real estate taxes in 1993, since the co-op community is increasingly being recognized as a large and sophisticated voting block.
Moreover, the added competition among certiorari lawyers -- who specialize in real estate tax disputes -- to challenge any change in a co-op's assessments has had a downward effect even on fees.
The standard legal fees for certiorari work traditionally stood at around 30 percent of any savings generated; these fees have now fallen to 20 percent. "So negotiate to the hilt even if you're using your usual lawyer," said Mr. Brecher.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SCI (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: HUB INTERNATIONAL NORTHEAST LTD (53%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; COOPERATIVES BUDGETS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); INSURANCE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (73%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (73%); TAX LAW (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); ACCOUNTING (70%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (64%); 

PERSON: BROOKS, ANDREE

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



810 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 2; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: THE VIEW FROM: NIANTIC;
Children's Museum Born of Teamwork

BYLINE: By CAROLYN BATTISTA

 BODY:
SO FAR, volunteers working to establish the Children's Museum of Southeastern Connecticut have dealt with, among other things, fund raising, trench digging, poison ivy, painting, the delivery of hundreds of pounds of fossils and, yes, the delivery of a baby. With the museum scheduled to open next Sunday, they are still working.
"We're getting in there, getting dirty, and making it happen," said Andrew Pappas, vice president of the museum's board of trustees. 
 The museum, in the Niantic section of East Lyme, will have about 25 exhibits, mostly of the hands-on variety. Young visitors will get to use an old printing press, make dinosaur footprints in plaster, tour a play village, climb around in a rowboat and see how electricity travels. They will handle magnets and minerals in the Discovery Room and perform, with props, in the Shadow Room. Very young children will find an area with soft sculptures to climb; nursing mothers will find a room with a rocking chair, and handicapped people will find accessible restrooms. "This is a family event where everybody gets to participate," said Jay Gionet, president of the board.
Mr. Pappas, who has a daughter, and Mr. Gionet, who has three children, were inspired last fall by a newspaper story about a children's museum in Holyoke, Mass. Started in a storefront by local residents, the museum grew, won wide acclaim and boosted the local economy. The two men figured that such a project would be ideal for their area, where the economy was faltering and families were finding too few places where they could spend time together without spending too much money. In addition, there was a building on Niantic's Main Street that was left vacant when the town library moved to bigger quarters.
The two men rounded up other supporters, and last December they asked the East Lyme Board of Selectmen to lease the old library building for three years, at a dollar a year, to house a children's museum. The board agreed, and Mr. Gionet rushed home to tell his wife.
 
Another Patron Is Born
 "She said, 'That's really good news. Now, I've got some news,' " he recalled. Mrs. Gionet was about to have a baby.
By the next day, the Gionets had a new son, and Mr. Gionet had persuaded the delivery-room nurse to serve on the museum's board of trustees.
By the next month, the nurse, Mary Anne Diamond, and her husband, John Diamond, were serving as chairmen of the museum's exhibits and education committee. "Our committee has met every Thursday night since January," Mr. Diamond said. "It's been an interesting hammer-and-anvil process."
The organizers sought advice from other museums and help from everyone they could think of. "We looked for community support," Mr. Pappas said, adding that people from more than a dozen area towns responded. A lawyer helped the group incorporate as a nonprofit organization and an accountant agreed to serve as treasurer. Northeast Utilities, where Mr. Gionet and Mr. Diamond are employed as engineers, provided a $30,000 grant to be used over three years. Assorted businesses, groups and individuals also made financial contributions. This year the museum budget was $30,000; next year it will be $100,000.
Many lent equipment (like a cement mixer) or offered services. "One plumber came to take a look and never left," Mr. Pappas said. Others donated items like shells, rocks and birds' nests. A man who builds pipe organs made a child-size one for the museum. A fossils dealer sent a truckload of fossils ("hundreds of pounds," Mr. Gionet said). A man whose wooden rowboat was washed up on the town beach during a storm let the museum have the boat. "It's going to become a play-scape," Mr. Gionet explained.
Mr. Pappas, who runs a restaurant, described how he has been approaching his customers ever since work got under way to prepare the building and the exhibits: "When people come in and eat, I say, 'Hi, do you know how to bang a nail?' "
Although the old library building was mostly vacant for several years, a school used part of it during the last school year. The museum's lease took effect July 1, after the school moved out. Then scores of volunteers plunged into such tasks as clearing brush (including poison ivy) from the side yard, cleaning mud from gutters, repairing areas where wood had rotted, digging a trench for new bathroom plumbing, installing new doors to meet current fire codes, painting murals on walls and setting up exhibits.
They built a child-size village, complete with firehouse and bank. They installed a structure that shows how a house is built -- a structure where youngsters can see how plumbing works, watch lights flash as electricity goes through glassed-in wires and use a pulley to haul cardboard bricks. They built the Shadow Room, with walls that will be coated with light-sensitive material. Youngsters can stand before a light, pose with selected props, then step away to see their shadow.
 
Children Make Dry Runs
 As opening day drew near, Mr. Gionet spent his weeklong vacation at the museum. "We're moving at an extremely fast clip now," he said. "People are driving by and looking in; we're the talk of the town," he said, as volunteers swarmed around with saws, paint brushes and a vacuum cleaner. "I know how to screw in sheetrock now," Robin Soule said. Laura Balantic reported, "We just ordered some life-like snakes and lizards." As usual, many workers brought their children. "They're the testers," Mr. Diamond said.
The organizers say that opening is only the beginning. They are already considering such future changes as having the village represent different countries and different eras. They also hope to offer educational programs and perhaps involve teen-agers as museum guides. At first, the only paid employee will be a part-time operations manager; volunteers will staff the museum. Eventually, a full-time director may be hired.
"We're establishing a base we can grow from," Mr. Diamond said.
 Starting next Sunday, the Children's Museum of Southeastern Connecticut (409 Main St., Niantic, 691-1255) will be open Thursday 10 A.M. to 4 P.M.,Friday 10 to 8, Saturday 11 to 5 and Sunday 1 to 5. Admission is $3, $1.50 for children; annual memberships available.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Volunteers, above, painting around windows in one of the exhibition areas at the Children's Museum of Southeastern Connecticut, while other, younger "volunteers," right, played make-believe water games as their parents worked.
(Photographs by Ernie Hearion for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (51%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHILDREN'S MUSEUM OF SOUTHEASTERN CONNECTICUT XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (51%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHILDREN'S MUSEUM OF SOUTHEASTERN CONNECTICUT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT; NIANTIC (CONN) UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS; VOLUNTEERS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); FUNDRAISING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); PARENTING (78%); FAMILY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (74%); BREASTFEEDING (73%); NURSES & NURSING (72%); DISABLED PERSONS (67%); DISABLED ACCESS (53%); 

PERSON: BATTISTA, CAROLYN MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



811 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 1; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2237 words

HEADLINE: Safety Net for the Hungry Is Collapsing

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO

 BODY:
FROM one end of the state to the other, in church basements and bingo halls, in soup kitchens and shelters for the homeless, thousands of volunteers have woven a vast grass-roots safety net to feed hundreds of thousands of hungry men, women and children.
But now, the leaders of this unprecedented movement say, the rapid growth in the ranks of the hungry is outstripping their ability to meet the demand. These are some of the developments they cite: 
 *A new tide of the "working poor"-- once self-sufficient families laid low by the recession and unemployment -- has inundated the food pantries and soup kitchens. "The people coming to us now for basic needs," said Patricia Espy, director of the Center for Food Action, a nonprofit organization in Englewood, "are the same people who were providing donations two years ago."
*Thousands of elderly residents living on fixed incomes and interest on savings have been forced to line up for food as prices have risen and interest rates have tumbled. Even more troubling, said Patricia Danielak, senior citizen coordinator for the Ironbound Community Corporation, a Newark-based social service agency, are those too proud to seek help. "We're the richest country in the world," she said, "and we have senior citizens who are eating cat food or hardly eating at all."
*About 500,000 residents in the Federal food stamp program have watched the buying power of their food stamps dwindle. "What we're seeing," said Monica Ward, an assistant administrative supervisor with the Camden County Board of Social Services, "is more and more of them running out of stamps earlier and earlier in the month and being forced to go to the soup kitchens."
*As many as 14,000 recipients of municipal welfare payments will be removed from the rolls on Dec. 31. "This is going to push a lot of people over the edge," said Anne Miller Christensen, a coordinator for Let's Celebrate, a Jersey City-based coalition of religious congregations that operates a network of 17 emergency food pantries in Hudson County. "From a soup kitchen standpoint, I assume our numbers will double."
The Statewide Emergency Food and Anti-Hunger Network is a coalition of more than 800 food providers that was created by Ms. Espy's center in Englewood. "We are the safety net," she said, "and at this point the net is collapsing."
Last year, she said, the center in Englewood provided three-day emergency food packages to more than 14,000 people in Bergen and Passaic Counties. "This year, we're up 38 percent over the same time period as last year," she said. "And most of the new population that has come to us are people who have worked all their lives."
Adele La Tourette, director of the anti-hunger network, said its members were finding themselves unable to cope with the increasing demands. "They don't have the resources, they don't have the time, they don't have the person-power and they don't have the food," she said. "The fact is, the volunteer agencies simply can't handle it anymore."
 
10% of Residents Face Hunger
 There are no official statistics on the number of hungry people in the state. But Lauren Tucker, a coordinator with the Community Foodbank of New Jersey in Newark, said, "At this point, we're estimating that one in 10 New Jerseyans currently face hunger and that half of those are children and the elderly, and even that estimate might be on the low side." As of 1990, the state population was about 7.7 million.
Many private social services agencies doubt their ability to cope with these growing numbers of hungry residents.
"It's frustrating and it's frightening," said Kathleen Steele, executive director of the Food Bank of South Jersey in Camden, a nonprofit organization that distributes more than 3.2 million pounds of food a year to more than 200 soup kitchens, food pantries and charitable organizations in Camden, Gloucester, Salem and Burlington Counties.
"Some of our agencies have reported increases of up to 50 percent in people coming for help," Ms. Steele said.
Kathleen DiChiara, executive director of the Community Foodbank of New Jersey, said the demands being placed on the agencies her organization serves were "overwhelming."
"Every emergency food pantry we deal with is showing an increase in the number of people coming for help," said Ms. DiChiara, whose organization covers the state's 17 central and northern counties. "We distribute more than 50,000 pounds of food a day to more than 1,000 charities, and it's just a drop in the bucket."
Public assistance programs to combat hunger consist mainly of the Federal food stamp program; the Women, Infants and Children Supplemental Feeding Program, known as the W.I.C. program, and school breakfast and lunch programs.
The W.I.C. program, which provides vouchers for meals for pregnant and nursing women and their children under 5 years old, now reaches only half of the potentially eligible participants, said Ms. Espy, of the Center for Food Action. And while school lunch programs are common, breakfast programs are currently not available in 70 percent of the state's school districts.
The quantity of food stamps a family receives, said Ms. Ward, of the Camden County Board of Social Services, depends upon the gross income and number of people in the family. For example, a family of four with $1,512 in gross monthly income is eligible for $370 a month in food stamps.
 
'It's Not Enough'
 "The food stamp program is designed to supply the basic nutritional needs for people," Ms. Ward said. "I can tell you it's not enough."
At Lighthouse Community Services in Newark, said the Rev. Steven Parrot, the executive director, "the first two weeks of the month we average about 400 people; the following two weeks, we're up to around 700." The increase, he said, is due to the fact that welfare payments and food stamps run out long before the end of the month.
Donna Ross Cohen, director of Invest in Children, a coalition of business leaders and children's advocates, said, "It is well documented that the food stamp allotment is not enough to feed a family."
A large and growing segment of the hungry population, Ms. Steele of the Camden food bank said, is made up of elderly people on fixed incomes. "With interest rates on their savings dropping," she said, "they're strapped each month for money to pay for food."
Ms. Danielak, of the Ironbound Community Corporation, said a large number of elderly people who need help do not seek it. "Their pride tells them they have to do it on their own," she said. "Sometimes it's 'heat or eat' -- you either pay your gas and electric bill or buy food." Far too often, Ms. Danielak said, elderly residents opt for the former choice.
 
Surge in 'Working Poor'
 At the Hoboken Shelter for the Homeless recently, 25-year-old Tracy Fletcher wiped spaghetti sauce from the face of her 2-year-old daughter, Shaheeda. She, her husband, Benjamin, and their two other daughters, 4 and 6, were having dinner at the shelter.
The Fletchers are part of a new surge in the number of "working poor" who are crowding soup kitchens and shelters. Mr. Fletcher has a minimum-wage job, and the rent on the couple's Jersey City apartment, plus the utility bills, leave the family with little money for food. That led them to the shelter for meals.
"We're trying to do the right thing for our children," Mrs. Fletcher said, adding, "That was a wonderful meal."
The working poor are among the "most neglected" in the population in general said Ms. DiChiara, of the Community Foodbank of New Jersey. "The cost of housing has gone up, and the minimum wage is just not covering the bills," she said. "If they have to make the choice 'Do I pay my rent or buy food?,' they pay the rent so they have a roof over their heads."
Ms. Espy, of the Center for Food Action in Englewood, said the fastest growing segment of families needing emergency food she has seen has been two-wage-earner households in which one spouse has lost a job.
"These are people who are embarrassed to go and apply for food stamps," she said. "By the time they come to us, they're absolutely desperate."
 
A Date Viewed With Dread
 The food providers look toward Dec. 31 with dread. That is the day when an estimated total of 10,000 to 14,000 municipal welfare recipients will have their $140 monthly welfare allotment cut to zero. The cut is the result of a legislative determination that single employable adults on municipal welfare should lose their benefits after six months. The clock started ticking last July 1.
State Department of Human Services records indicate that 30,939 people are currently on municipal welfare. Nearly 20,000 of those are classified as being able to work.
"Things look bleak now, and they're going to get a whole lot worse," said Ms. Christensen, of Let's Celebrate. "It seems as if someone is saying, 'These lazy, good-for-nothing people just don't want to work,' but with unemployment around 9 percent, where are they going to find jobs?"
Most of the food distributed by the the Center for Food Action comes from donations from residents and businesses in the area, Ms. Espy said.For example, a food drive sponsored by The Record of Hackensack that ended last week resulted in the collection of about 55,000 cans of food and $15,000 in cash.
 
Other Sources of Donations

 Other emergency food providers stock their shelves from a variety of sources, including hunger marches, neighborhood food drives and food contributions through churches and synagogues.
Many soup kitchens and food pantries that receive cash donations instead of actual food, however, use that cash to buy food from the Newark or Camden food banks.
The food banks receive large quantities of food, toiletries and other necessities from manufacturers. Often, the packaging is crushed or soiled, but the product itself is undamaged.
For the food banks, as for most other emergency food providers, their volunteers are at the heart of the enterprise.
Vera Davis, for example, has been working at the Newark food bank since it opened 10 years ago. She is 78 years old and takes two buses from her home in Newark to the food bank.
"I do this," Mrs. Davis said, "because I know it's going to help someone who lives in a poor neighborhood like the one I live in."
 
 
 
HOW MANY? AN ESTIMATE
 Most experts acknowledge that it is difficult to estimate the number of people in the state who are suffering from hunger at any specific time.
Last year, the Food Research and Action Center, a research organization based in Washington, released state-by-state hunger estimates based upon studies completed in seven demographically varied states.
Christin Driscoll, a spokeswoman for the organization, said projections from that survey indicated that at the time the survey was taken, more than 23 percent of New Jersey families with children under 12 were "at risk" of being hungry. More than 10 percent of those families, Ms. Driscoll said, were actually experiencing hunger on a recurring basis.
The survey was conducted over an 18-month period, from February 1989 to August 1990. More recent figures are not available.
By way of comparison, however, the number of food-stamp recipients in the state in May of 1990 was 384,042. By May of 1992, that number had increased to 502,170.
 
 
 
Volunteer's Evolution
 The development of the anti-hunger network in the state has changed the lives of many of its thousands of volunteers. "Some organizations that began as small volunteer organizations out of the goodness of people's hearts," said Adele la Tourette, director of the Statewide Emergency Food and Anti-hunger Network in Englewood, "have evolved into full-scale social service agencies."
An example of that metamorphosis can be found in the person of Kathleen DiChiara, director of the Community Foodbank of New Jersey.
"In 1975 I was a typical suburban housewife," said Mrs. DiChiara, who lives in Summit and has two children. "I started collecting canned goods at church. Then I gave my telephone number to the welfare department and told them to call me if they knew anybody who needed food."
From the back of her station wagon, Mrs. DiChiara began delivering food to people she had been referred to by the department. Over the years, her station-wagon-based food distribution network grew into the largest nonprofit food bank in the state.
"In 1991 alone we distributed $20 million worth of food to more than 1000 member agencies," Mrs. DiChiara said. "We will exceed that number considerably in 1992."
The food bank is now situated in an industrial section of Newark. A steady stream of trucks, vans and cars arrives at the platform of the 43,000-square-foot warehouse, some delivering, some picking up cartons of food, toiletries, soap and other necessities.
Inside, pallets of goods are stacked 15 feet high or stored in one of the food bank's two 32,000- cubic-foot refrigerated rooms. Volunteers are busy sorting, cleaning and repacking items that arrive from corporate contributors in large cardboard boxes.
To cover operating costs, the food bank charges member agencies 12 cents a pound for the more than 50,000 pounds of goods that leave the warehouse each day. Next month, the food bank will move to a new warehouse in Newark that is seven times the size of its current quarters.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At Lighthouse Community Services in Newark, above, 400 to 700 people are fed each week. The food kitchens depend upon a network of thousands of volunteers like Vera Davis, below at left, at a food bank in Newark, and those at a shelter in Hoboken (pg. 1); A moment of reflection at Lighthouse Community Services in Newark as cups of soup were brought to the table; A moment of reflection at Lighthouse Community Services as soup was brought to table. (pg. 11) (Photographs by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (52%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (52%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (52%); FOOD STAMP PROGRAM (54%); FOOD STAMP PROGRAM (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD STAMP PROGRAM (54%); FOOD STAMP PROGRAM (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; HUNGER FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (90%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); COUNTIES (88%); VOLUNTEERS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); FAMILY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); RECESSION (76%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (75%); AGING (73%); RELIGION (73%); PET FOODS (72%); FOOD STAMPS (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (64%); 

PERSON: ROMANO, JAY MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



812 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1403 words

HEADLINE: Behind Congress Races, The Presidential Factor

BYLINE: By JOSEPH F. SULLIVAN

DATELINE: NEWARK

 BODY:
AS if the redrawing of Congressional districts, the loss of a Congressional seat and the retirement of four incumbents aren't enough, candidates for New Jersey's 13 seats in the House of Representatives this year find themselves in the middle of a role reversal.
Usually the Republican Presidential candidate has held the lead in the closing weeks of the campaign while Democratic candidates for Congress tried to come up with strategies to divorce their campaigns from what was happening at the top of the ballot. 
 The last time a Democratic Presidential candidate carried New Jersey was in 1964, when Lyndon B. Johnson won in a landslide and helped turn an 8-to-7 Republican majority in the state's Congressional delegation to an 11-to-4 majority for the Democrats. Succeeding elections and census counts have whittled the delegation down to its new level of 13 seats, leaving the Democrats with a 7-to-6 margin over Republicans.
 
In Search of Local Issues
 Last week, with Gov. Bill Clinton holding a double-digit lead over President Bush, the only signs of divorce were in the Republican camp.
Robert C. Janiszewski, the Hudson County Executive and chairman of the Clinton-Gore campaign in New Jersey, said he found it refreshing to see some Republican candidates for Congress "trying to significantly increase their name recognition and find local issues to run on" while keeping their distance from the head of the ticket.
He predicted that a close result in the Presidential race would probably leave the state's Congressional races unaffected. "But if Clinton wins by 8 or 10 or 12 points," Mr. Janiszewski added, "it could make a difference" for Democratic candidates.
William J. Palatucci, the executive director of the Bush-Quayle campaign, said President Bush's good showing in the final televised debate last week could make a big difference in the Congressional races. "He saved the best for last, and we expect to see a little bump," Mr. Palatucci said. "If it gets Clinton's lead down to single digits, we'll take it from there."
 
Findings of Poll
 In mid-September, the Star-Ledger/Eagleton poll at Rutgers University said that Mr. Clinton had a 13-point lead over Mr. Bush and that the New Jersey electorate was leaning further toward the Democratic Party in Congressional races than it had in recent elections.
Ken Dautrich, associate director of the poll, said 44 percent of the 670 registered voters surveyed said they favored Democrats for Congress, compared with 31 percent who said they leaned toward the Republican Party. The rest were undecided. The poll had a margin of error of plus or minus four percentage points.
In a similar poll in 1988, Mr. Dautrich said, registered voters favored Democrats in Congress by just a four-percentage-point margin.
Last week, incumbents appeared to be running ahead in their bids for re-election. Most of the attention was focused on districts where incumbents had retired, particularly in the Sixth and Eighth Districts.
These two contests were cited by Neil Upmeyer, director of the Center for the Analysis of Public Issues, an independent public issues organization in Princeton, as "the only two real Congressional races." He said the Presidential election "could have a coattail effect" in these contests, and any others that might tighten up in the closing days of the campaign.
The new Sixth District is made up of parts of the old Third District in Monmouth and Ocean Counties and the old Sixth District, mainly in Middlesex County. The redistricting put most of the balance of the old Third District, which had been represented by Frank Pallone Jr. of Long Branch, into a new Fourth District to the south.
That left Mr. Pallone virtually a man without a country. It also meant that, to remain in office, he would have to run in one of the two new districts, where strong incumbents were in place.
His problem was resolved when Bernard J. Dwyer, a Democrat who had represented the old Sixth for 12 years, suddenly retired. Mr. Pallone won a hard-fought primary against four candidates from Middlesex, which has 58 percent of the new district. His opponent, State Senator Joseph Kyrillos of Middletown, did the same in the Republican primary despite the fact that he, too, is from the smaller Monmouth portion of the district.
 
Frustration Over Economy
 Mr. Kyrillos recognizes that voter frustration over the sluggish economy is the overriding issue in the race and that the President is the target of much of that frustration. He hopes that enough of those venting their anger in the voting booth will also want to turn out Democratic Congressional incumbents, including Mr. Pallone.
Mr. Pallone, in turn, has continued the campaign strategy he began in the June primary, picturing himself as a "maverick" who has charted an independent course, and angered members of both parties in the process. He reminds listeners that he was the only member of the New Jersey delegation who voted against the $40,000 raise that Congress voted itself in 1989.
Mr. Kyrillos says Mr. Pallone accepted the raise and pocketed most of the money, despite Mr. Pallone's assertion that he gives $10,000 to charity and that most of the rest, aside from cost of living increases, is eaten up by taxes. Mr. Kyrillos says that if he is elected and another raise comes up for a vote, he will vote against it and return the money to the Treasury. He favors term limits on Congressional service; Mr. Pallone does not.
 
A Surprise Resignation
 One of the goals of the bipartisan commission that drafted the new Congressional map was to preserve the seat of Representative Robert A. Roe of Wayne, the Democratic dean of the state's delegation with enough seniority to be chairman of the powerful Public Works and Transportation Committee. But then Mr. Roe suprised everyone by retiring after 22 years in Washington.
Mr. Roe's Eighth District seat is being sought by State Senator Joseph L. Bubba, Republican of Wayne, and Herbert C. Klein of Clifton, a Democrat and former member of the State Assembly. Mr. Bubba was viewed as the early favorite in the race, but Mr. Janiszewski said the district was one in which a strong showing by Mr. Clinton could give Mr. Klein the victory.
The campaign has been marked by strong personal attacks from both candidates. Mr. Bubba charges that Mr. Klein bragged in a letter that his law firm had helped change state environmental rules to allow developers to build in protected wetlands and that the firm solicited business based on that claim.
Mr. Klein counters that Mr. Bubba accepted $10,000 from the National Rifle Association and later opposed a seven-day waiting period for handgun purchases and that Mr. Bubba supports "the open sale of military-style assault weapons."
Mr. Bubba is highlighting his votes to make welfare fraud a crime, impose stiffer penalties for hate crimes and establish a crime victim's "Bill of Rights" and his sponsorship of a proposed constitutional amendment to prevent the New Jersey Supreme Court from overturning death sentences imposed by juries.
 
Budget Deficit an Issue
 Mr. Klein, who has not held public office since he served in the Assembly from 1972 to 1976, says he is "not a career politician who has lost touch with the concerns of ordinary people." With the end of the cold war, Mr. Klein says, the $140 billion the Government spends annually "defending Germany and Japan" should be used to reduce the Federal budget deficit.
Another vacancy occurred in the redrawn Seventh District in Union County when Matthew J. Rinaldo, a Republican, retired after 10 terms in Congress. Although the district is competitive, State Assemblyman Robert D. Franks of New Providence, the New Jersey Republican chairman, is considered the front-runner, in part because he has represented some of the same territory in the Legislature.
His opponent, who is making his first run for public office, is Leonard R. Sendelsky of Colonia, a wealthy builder and Democratic fund-raiser..
The redrawn 13th District, part of which was represented for 14 years by another retiree, Frank J. Guarini, Democrat of Jersey City, is expected to be filled by Robert Menendez of Union City, a Cuban-American who is the city's Mayor and a State Senator. His Republican opponent is Fred Theemling of Weehawken, who was defeated twice in prior elections by Mr. Guarini.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Frank Pallone Jr.; Joseph Kyrillos (pg. 6) (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY; HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) DEMOCRATIC PARTY (81%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY; HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) DEMOCRATIC PARTY (81%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); REDISTRICTING (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (86%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); COUNTIES (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%); CENSUS (55%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, JOSEPH F; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); FRANK PALLONE JR (58%); DAVE CAMP (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



813 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1897 words

HEADLINE: The Lowey-DioGuardi Rematch

BYLINE: By JAMES FERON

 BODY:
LIKE a quarreling couple reworking old disputes at a dinner party, Joseph J. DioGuardi and Nita M. Lowey are moving from political debate to political debate these days, puzzling and annoying their audiences while trying to inform and sway them.
Both candidates are seeking re-election. Mr. DioGuardi, a Republican-Conservative, won Westchester's 20th Congressional District seat in 1984 in his first run for public office. He held on to the seat in 1986, but then lost it two years later to Mrs. Lowey, a Democrat, in her first election bid. She was the only woman in the United States that year to beat an incumbent Congressman. 
 Now they are at it again, struggling against a familiar backdrop. Mr. DioGuardi, the challenger, has been taking the fight to his opponent, often devoting his entire opening statement to attacking Mrs. Lowey. She then spends most of the time allotted to her initial remarks to answering him.
The negative campaigning technique pursued by Mr. DioGuardi is evident even in the voters guide published by the League of Women Voters. Asked to respond to three questions, Mr. DioGuardi devotes his entire 90-word statement to characterizing and criticizing Mrs. Lowey's record.
Their positions on issues emerge, but often indistinctly or in enigmatic shorthand. Mr. DioGuardi makes no excuses for the attack mode he has employed. "She started it in 1988 when she stole the election by smearing me in the final days," he said. "It won't happen again. This time I'm not going to wait to respond. I have to be responding before she attacks."
He was referring to an incident that surfaced just before the 1988 election when Joseph Crabtree, a member of Mr. DioGuardi's campaign finance committee, funneled more than $50,000 in illegal contributions through his automobile dealership by reimbursing employee contributions. Mr. Crabtree paid a $10,000 fine and testified that Mr. DioGuardi masterminded the plan; the candidate has denied it.
 
No More Bullhorns
 Mrs. Lowey capitalized on the disclosure with radio and television advertisements, paying for them with $250,000 of her own money, which she lent her campaign but failed to report within 48 hours as required by law. She later paid a $3,500 civil penalty for failure to disclose it properly.
References to these incidents serve as a contrapuntal melody in the current campaign, frustrating audiences seeking more up-to-date information. At one recent debate, Mr. DioGuardi was booed by an exasperated audience when he answered a question on the Clean Air Act by observing first that Mrs. Lowey "is owned by the unions and the trial attorneys."
The campaign is punctuated by charges of "liar" and "hypocrite." An early practice -- DioGuardi supporters using bullhorns to interrupt Lowey speeches -- has been halted, presumably as excessive even for this campaign.
A candidates' lunch forum sponsored by the Woman's Club of White Plains on Oct. 14 also was typical. Mr. DioGuardi began in disarming fashion by saying that "this is one of the most exciting races in America because Congresswoman Lowey and I disagree on every issue of substance."
He then spent all but a few moments of his opening remarks characterizing Mrs. Lowey's positions in his own terms, leaving only a few sentences at the end for his own political agenda. A woman in the audience leaned over and complained to another woman: "He really shouldn't be doing this."
The second woman said, "He's the challenger. He has to do it."
"But not like that," the first woman replied.
Mr. DioGuardi said his opponent's "approach to life is bigger government; that's why she voted nine times to raise your taxes."
"She supports the Clinton plan to raise taxes on everybody earning more than $36,000," he continued. "She thinks that's the way to create jobs, using your tax dollars for make-work jobs, not real jobs.
"She was given a 100 percent rating by the Americans for Democratic Action; that's 5 percent higher than the 95 percent they gave Barney Sanders of New Hampshire, the only elected Socialist in the House. She's a perfect liberal. You're going to hear lies that she is a fiscal conservative. But that's part of the disinformation she creates, using money from her husband's law firm.
"How do you get 100 percent from the A.D.A.? By voting for fish farms in Arkansas and voting against sending troops to the Gulf. By saying you express your First Amendment rights by burning the flag, by putting $45,000 into the National Endowment for the Arts for exhibits that are so obscene I wouldn't discuss them here. She votes against the police, votes to release guilty people because they're picked up on some technicality where it's clear they're guilty."
He then offered his own agenda:
"The bottom line is I'm a certified public accountant. I have a three-point plan. It starts with reducing the capital gains tax to 10 percent to loosen up capital. I'm for a line-item veto, a balanced budget amendment, and I'm not going to even think about raising your taxes until we get spending in Washington under control."
Mrs. Lowey, responding to the "flawed, failed former Congressman," a phrase she uses as often as he tags her as a "tax-and-spend liberal," challenged her audience to "ask him how he spent his last four years," asserting that he is simply "looking for a job in Washington because he never went back to his accounting firm."
 
Mrs. Lowey's Agenda
 As for her own legislative agenda, she summarized it this way:
"We should be investing in our crumbling roads and highways. In Westchester, 50 percent of construction workers have no jobs. I support investment tax credits for small businesses, because that's where jobs are created, as well as investments in research and technology so we can get the private sector moving again."
Mrs. Lowey speaks of being instrumental in obtaining an export contract for a Yonkers company to build subway cars for Taiwan and in building a new Federal courthouse in White Plains. Mr. DioGuardi claims a role in both achievements. Both claim credit for initiating the idea of a Long Island Sound office to orchestrate the cleanup of the Sound.
She said her 100 percent A.D.A. rating came from the fact that she favors reducing the scope of the Strategic Defense Initiative, cutting further the number of troops overseas, opposing the financing of a space station, banning assault weapons, increasing financing for Head Start and other children's support measures and supporting the Brady bill on gun control.
Mrs. Lowey said her opponent "voted against almost every budget plan proposed during his tenure in Congress." As for the National Endowment for the Arts, "the grants that prompted the furor were approved by Reagan-Bush appointees." On the subject of crime, Mrs. Lowey opposes the death penalty; Mr. DioGuardi favors it. She says she backed a major crime bill that died in the Senate "because the President and his friends did not want to offend the National Rifle Association." She would create boot camps for first-time offenders, she says.
Mr. DioGuardi claims that Mrs. Lowey is among Congress's leading recipients of contributions from lawyers, "getting $100,000 from law firms in New York City." The money, he says, "comes from law firms who are under pressure to contribute."
Scott Fleming, an aide to Mrs. Lowey, said, "We never added it up, but there's no pressure and the vast majority of her contributions come from her constituents."
Mrs. Lowey opposes both a line-item veto and a balanced budget amendment, while Mr. DioGuardi favors both. She would reduce capital gains by indexing them for inflation; he says "indexing is a good idea, but it's not enough. In addition, the capital gains tax rate should be dropped to 10 percent."
 
Different Views on Health Care
 He favors a health-care plan "that has a national orientation but is managed by the private sector." She says health-care reform should include the right to choose health-care providers combined with effective cost-control mechanisms as well as addressing the need for affordable long-term care for the elderly and the disabled.
Mrs. Lowey favors a woman's right to have an abortion; Mr. DioGuardi, who has Right to Life Party endorsement, is against it.
She says, "He keeps talking about his 22 years as a C.P.A., but the best example of how he used his C.P.A. skills was in putting together a scheme for himself and cronies in the Congress to shelter income from speaking fees." He says the charge is "baseless," that the so-called cronies included Democrats "who asked me to help set up retirement plans."
 
An Oddly Shaped District
 The candidates are running in a district that extends south through the east Bronx into central Queens. Mr. DioGuardi claims that redistricting, which created the oddly shaped district, "is good for my campaign" because it eliminated parts of the old district where Mrs. Lowey outpolled him 56 percent to 44 percent.
The 1988 Lowey-DioGuardi contest was among the nation's most expensive, with each candidate spending more than $1 million. This year's race could be equally expensive. Mr. DioGuardi began using television ads nearly two weeks ago.
Westchester communities are included in three other Congressional Districts. The 19th, which covers all of northern Westchester as far south as Mount Pleasant, North Castle and White Plains as well as Putnam County and parts of Dutchess and Orange Counties, is represented by a 12-term Republican-Conservative, Hamilton Fish Jr. of Fishkill.
His challenger, Neil McCarthy of Waccabuc, a lawyer, says Mr. Fish, is "a rubber stamp" for the White House and seeks to use Mr. Fish's long service against him. "For two-thirds of my adult life Mr. Fish has been the Congressman from my district; I think it's time for a change," Mr. McCarthy said.
 
Comfortable Margins in the Past
 Mr. Fish, who has won previous elections by comfortable margins, said he was seeking "a $5,000 tax credit and penalty-free IRA withdrawals for first-time-home purchases, a permanent extension of the low-income housing tax credit and a cut in the capital gains tax rate." There is no Right to Life candidate in the 19th Congressional District.
Another longtime incumbent, Benjamin A. Gilman of Middletown, a Republican who has served in Congress for 20 years, represents the town of Greenburgh as well as Rockland and parts of Orange and Sullivan Counties in the 20th Congressional District. His principal challenger is Jonathan L. Levine of Clarkstown, a lawyer and former assistant public defender in Rockland County.
Mr. Levine has said he would free the nation from its "addiction" to foreign oil by relying on domestic sources. He said "the cost of oil from abroad is low until you add the cost of protecting it." The Right to Life candidate is Robert F. Garrison.
Another strong incumbent, although in this case a Democrat, is Eliot L. Engel, the two-term Bronx Congressman whose redrawn 17th District includes southwest Yonkers, most of Mount Vernon and parts of New Rochelle and Pelham.
Mr. Engel's main opponent, Martin Richman, is a Republican and former special assistant to the United States Attorney General prosecuting Government corruption. Kevin Brawley is the Conservative candidate and Martin J. O'Grady is the Right to Life candidate in the 17th District.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (68%); FINES & PENALTIES (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); LAWYERS (61%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (60%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%); RADIO ADVERTISING (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: FERON, JAMES; DIOGUARDI, JOSEPH J; LOWEY, NITA M (REPR) NITA M LOWEY (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



814 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 9; Page 11; Column 4; Society Desk

LENGTH: 142 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Jane Moos, David Cohen

 BODY:
Jane Moos, an architect at Skidmore, Owings & Merrill in New York, was married in Chicago last evening to David Cohen, a business consultant with the Hampton Consulting Group, a financial-consulting concern in New York. Rabbi Herbert Bronstein officiated at the Standard Club.
Mrs. Cohen, 40 years old, graduated from Tulane University and received a master's degree in architecture from Pratt Institute. She is a daughter of Clifford Moos of Highland Park, Ill., and the late Naomi Moos. The bride's father is the president of the Economy Folding Box Corporation, a packaging concern in Chicago. 
 Mr. Cohen, 45, graduated from Yale University and received an M.B.A. from Boston University. He is a son of Harry Cohen of Woodbury, Conn., and the late Frances Cohen. His father is a partner in Cohen & Kessler, a law firm in New Milford, Conn.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS322212 FOLDING PAPERBOARD BOX MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC2657 FOLDING PAPERBOARD BOXES, INCLUDING SANITARY (71%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (58%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (52%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: ECONOMY FOLDING BOX CORP (71%); SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (58%); TULANE UNIVERSITY (58%); TULANE UNIVERSITY (58%); YALE UNIVERSITY (57%); YALE UNIVERSITY (57%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (56%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TULANE UNIVERSITY (58%); TULANE UNIVERSITY (58%); YALE UNIVERSITY (57%); YALE UNIVERSITY (57%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (56%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (52%); BOSTON, MA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (88%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (87%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); 

PERSON: MOOS, JANE (JANE COHEN); COHEN, DAVID FRANCES COHEN (92%); JANE MOOS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



815 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2762 words

HEADLINE: Signs of Life at Sears, Roebuck

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

DATELINE: CHICAGO

 BODY:
Floors laid with carpet or tile instead of linoleum? Women's dresses displayed in their own section instead of across the aisle from laundry detergents and kitchen gadgets? Brand-name appliances and attractively priced knockoffs of trendy dresses and blouses sold at Saks and Neiman Marcus?
Just what is going on at Sears, Roebuck & Company? 
 The retailer that many shoppers, competing merchants and Wall Street analysts have written off as a hopeless has-been, the maligned merchant that raised unresponsiveness to an art, is exhibiting some astonishing signs that it can indeed change. It has begun to recast itself in a more modern, more sophisticated way. It has moved to stop selling everything and instead focused on seven kinds of merchandise. It has pared expenses by dismantling the way it did things for decades.
As part of the makeover, Sears is for the first time reaching outside to recruit talent, turning the merchandising group over to department- and specialty-store veterans like Arthur C. Martinez, who became head of retail operations less than two months ago, and Dorrit Bern, national merchandise manager for women's apparel. And the talents of Sears veterans like Janice E. Page, also a merchandise manager, are starting to shine.
Sears, which a year ago slipped from being the nation's largest retailer to third-largest behind Wal-Mart and Kmart, is already enjoying some gains in market share -- no small relief to the 362,400 merchandising-group employees and almost 350,000 shareholders who count on the company. It has regained almost 5 market-share points in the appliances business, claiming more than 30 percent of the market. At a time when most retailers have reported declining or flat sales of apparel, sales of women's clothing, Sears's most profitable business, have increased as much as 5 percent in stores open at least one year. And Sears has gained in the home furnishings business, although by how much is uncertain.
 
Wall Street Thinks Again
 "For the last 10 years, I've had a standing sell recommendation on Sears," said Peter J. Siris, a retail analyst at UBS Securities. "I said this was the worst company in the world and these guys should be put out of their misery one way or the other. But I have come to believe over the last year or so -- and I never thought I would -- that, while they once were without a doubt complete idiots, they may in fact have finally gotten smart."
He thinks Sears's sales gains in areas like women's apparel are translating into market share improvements and points to the elimination of almost $1 billion, or roughly 11 percent, of expenses. He also cites better merchandise distribution to insure that stores are in stock with best-selling goods, and a program that has tamed an infamous bureaucracy by eliminating a layer of management.
Margaret A. Gilliam, a retail analyst at the First Boston Corporation who is closely read by the industry, wrote of Sears this month: "We do believe that with all the cost cutting that Sears has been undertaking, and the improvement efforts that have been going on in the merchandising areas, that better earnings are in store with any type of economic recovery." She said the company's dominant locations in good shopping malls, many loyal credit-card holders and the clout of $32 billion in sales give it a solid foundation.
That is not to say that Sears will make it. Ms. Gilliam and Mr. Siris are among a small band of guarded optimists. Others who predicted a Sears recovery in the past have been disappointed. Stingy consumers, a weak economy and extreme competition that has eaten away at profit margins are still large obstacles. More than half of Sears's 860 stores still must be spiffed up, and millions of Americans remain unconvinced that Sears is a place to shop. It hasn't helped that a scandal last summer in Sears's automotive business, in which salespeople were accused of recommending unneeded repairs, has cut revenue in that department by 10 to 15 percent.
"I think our biggest challenge has been and will be how well we execute," Mr. Martinez said.
Indeed, many believe an inability to execute is Sears's fatal flaw. "You're talking about something that has to be rebuilt from the bottom up, and it's 20 years too late to do that," said Philip Johnson, president of Leo J. Shapiro & Associates, a consumer marketing and retail firm in Chicago.
Sears, whose sales have not even outpaced inflation for a decade, has a rich history of initiatives that never lived up to their promises, mostly because of half-hearted implementation, analysts say. Count among them "everyday low pricing" and the "Store of the Future."
 
The Action Plan
 Contrary to its image, Sears is now reacting decisively not only to shoppers but also to shareholders and Wall Street.
On Sept. 29, the corporation announced plans to uncobble its group of disparate businesses, spinning off its financial-services arm, Dean Witter Reynolds, and its real estate interest, Coldwell Banker, and offering to the public a 20 percent piece of its Allstate insurance subsidiary.
Sears decided to unleash these businesses because the merchandising group's lousy performance caused the market to devalue them. Between 1987 and 1991, merchandise-group sales grew only 12 percent and profits dropped 22 percent. Last Thursday, Sears issued a dismal third-quarter report on its merchandising business, which lost $36.4 million.
Sears's stock closed Friday at $41.75, a little under book value. Edward A. Brennan, chairman and chief executive, has never achieved his goal of reaching a 15 percent return on equity, and the retail division hasn't even come close.
Mr. Martinez says his merchandising group will achieve that goal within five years, and then he wants to push it further. "How high is up for us? I don't know yet," he said, "but 15 percent is kind of the minimum relatively short-term standard I'm working toward."
Sears has moved to cut its costs, which are still far higher than many of its competitors', and Mr. Martinez says he will cut more. Last year, Sears spent 29.2 percent of its revenues on operating expenses like salaries, advertising and utility bills, while Kmart spent 21.2 percent and the Gap spent 22.85 percent. On the other hand, J. C. Penney, which Sears regards as a tough competitor, spent 30.4 percent.
About 48,050 positions have been eliminated, although the number of people employed in the merchandising group has dropped less significantly, to 362,400 at the end of last year from 370,400 a year earlier.
"We have never seen a retailer cut costs as aggressively or as consistently as has Sears," Mr. Siris wrote in a report last summer.
 
The New Look
 It is in the roughly 35 percent of Sears's 860 stores that have been renovated where the company's new direction becomes most apparent.
Take the Woodfield Mall Sears store in Schaumburg, Ill., with its spacious tiled aisles and carpeted sales floors, wood moldings along the walls, bright lights and eye-catching displays. The store is clearly arranged into the seven core businesses on which Sears has chosen to focus -- men's, women's and children's clothing, home furnishings, home improvement, automotive services and supplies, and appliances and consumer electronics. It has a genteel department-store ambiance, as do Sears stores in Hicksville, L.I., and King of Prussia, Pa., among other places.
Contrast these with the cluttered, down-at-the-heels feel of the Sears store on Lawrence Avenue in Chicago, among others. Too much merchandise is crammed into too little space. Sears's effort to sell everything from greeting cards, eyeglasses and popcorn to drills and furniture creates a kind of three-ring circus. A brass light fixture and an extension cord encased in orange plastic can be bought without taking a step. Office clothes, including a lovely red-and-black houndstooth sweater suit, are displayed right across the aisle from appliances and detergent. Economical uses of space, perhaps, but presentations unlikely to entice someone shopping for a chandelier or Wall Street suit.
Upgrading stores like Lawrence Avenue means money. Last year, Sears invested about $650 million in capital expenditures; then again, Wal-Mart and Kmart each spent more than $1 billion to spruce up their stores.
"We have slipped behind the pack in that regard so we have some catchup to do," Mr. Martinez said.
Less visible but no less important than the improvements on the sales floor is what has happened out of sight of the customer.
In narrowing its focus to seven businesses, Sears has made each business responsible for itself -- accountable for its own profits and losses and for keeping track of the competition.
In the past, Sears divided its merchandising into two parts, "hard lines" like washing machines and "soft lines" like clothing. Regional managers (now eliminated) decided where merchandise would go and store managers decided how much effort to devote to selling different goods. Now the buyers ordering hot pants also oversee their distribution to the stores and insure that there is always someone there to sell them.
"We have been taking apart processes, looking at everything that goes into what we do and asking if we really need it," said Jane J. Thompson, vice president for planning.
Take the typical Sears sales manager. Today she is spending 80 percent of her time on the floor with customers, up from 40 percent. She is no longer responsible for restocking shelves or making price changes.
Technology has helped too. Point-of-sale computer terminals in all Sears stores allow sales clerks to issue credits for returned merchandise, begin layaway plans and arrange for deliveries -- and to track customer preferences.
 
Plans for Tomorrow
 Mr. Martinez has much more in mind. In an interview at the merchandising group's new headquarters in the northwest Chicago suburb of Hoffman Estates, Ill., the veteran of Saks Fifth Avenue and Marshall Field mentioned several possibilities for streamlining Sears, including closing some weaker stores, freeing up more selling space in stores and perhaps even closing the catalogue operation, which lost about $200 million last year.
He also vowed to make his managers stop speaking in the numbers that designate various departments and districts within the company. Riding in the elevators at Sears, it is not unusual to overhear one employee ask another something like, "Did you know that Division 22 and Division 26 of 700-1 are doing real well in District 260?" (Translation: "Did you know that cooking and laundry appliances are doing real well in Chicago?")
The numerical jargon is a telling indication of the unnecessarily complicated quality of Sears's business in the past. "I have a little policy now," Mr. Martinez said. "Anytime anyone uses a number instead of a noun, they have to put $1 in the kitty."
For all the changes, visible and invisible, Sears's bottom line in merchandising hasn't improved. Last year, bicycles, winter coats, dishwashers, garden hoses and the myriad other items Sears sells earned just 7 percent of the retail group's profits. Sears's own credit card earned the rest (its Discover card's earnings fall under Dean Witter). And Sears executives don't expect much improvement this year.
The reason: cutthroat competition has forced Sears and its competitors to drop prices. Even though it has gained market share, the company has been unable to raise revenues, and profit margins throughout the retail industry keep shrinking, particularly in areas like home appliances and consumer electronics.
If its plan is to work, Sears must raise sales, especially of clothing, with its higher margins. Among the prime targets: women with household incomes of $35,000 to $55,000 a year, who prize value but have learned from stores like The Limited that it doesn't have to come at the expense of fashion. Sears has also retained the loyalty of older people and inner-city Hispanic customers.
Sears is trying to attract new shoppers with promotions on basic items, like two-for-one sales on T-shirts and jeans. Once in a Sears store like that in Schaumburg, they may then be attracted to a beaded blue evening dress that looks like one in a Saks catalogue but at $140 is half the price.
 
And Here's Fashion
 That dress is evidence that fashion has finally arrived at Sears, and not a moment too soon. Margins on the goods for which the retailer is famous -- tools, appliances and car batteries -- are shrinking as competitors like Home Depot, Circuit City and Trak Auto reach for business. Apparel, accessories and cosmetics offer retailers a higher gross margin -- 30 to 40 percent, compared with 20 to 30 percent for goods like lawn mowers.
Already, sales of women's apparel account for 22 percent of Sears's business and are the most profitable of its seven businesses.
Sears has an enviable position as one of the only large retailers that did not abandon Middle America in search of shoppers with more disposable income. "Moderate America has been walking around the malls saying, 'Excuse me, but where am I going to shop?' " said Ms. Bern, a former Federated Department Stores buyer who has forced a sense of fashion into the women's clothing business at Sears. "My competitors brag about having $100 dresses. I hate to tell them, but Moderate America doesn't have $100 to spend."
She and her colleagues, many of them department-store refugees, steal concepts about colors, fabrics and styles from suppliers who wouldn't dream of selling their goods in a Sears store. For example, there is the $26 version of a $300 sweater bought at a boutique in London on one of Ms. Bern's European scouting trips. The difference? The Sears sweater may feel like angora but is made in an acrylic that washes like polyester. Or take the $95 studded, fur-trimmed ski jacket that looks suspiciously like a Bogner parka retailing for $895. And Mainframe, Sears's juniors department, is selling several funky fake furs for $120.
In some cases, Sears's women's clothing comes off the same production line as branded merchandise the company can't stock. You can buy an $80 brushed-flannel nightie at Saks, or spend $16.99 at Sears for the same thing in a slightly different print.
"Granted, Vanity Fair, Bali and Maidenform aren't beating down our door to sell to us," said Ms. Page, merchandise manager for intimate apparel. "But we have the same products with the same quality for a much better price without their names."
Now, if only Sears could persuade more people of that.
 
 
 
A MATTER OF CUSTOMER PERCEPTIONS
 Sears is throwing a big party in its Hicksville, L.I., store next month for the top brass at prestigious potential suppliers like Liz Claiborne, Leslie Fay and Gitano. Its goal: to show a Sears reincarnate and coax suppliers into selling at Sears.
Such self-promotion is rare for Sears. In an industry where tooting one's horn is a big part of business, Sears is reticent.
Its advertising focuses on promotional items instead of creating an image. By contrast, J. C. Penney's new commercials use bright shots of fashionable apparel and accessories and the tagline "We've changed" to announce the chain is not the frumpy general merchant it was 10 years ago. The Gap used celebrities to give its T-shirts and jean jackets panache.
Sears has only recently begun to harvest the shopping records of the 27 million people who use Sears credit cards, targeting customers with slick direct-mail brochures and invitations for special shopping nights.
And while Sears needs to get its message out, it has hesitated to make noise until sure its store renovations and improved merchandise are in place, said Matthew A. Howard, senior vice president for marketing.
There's still a big gap to be bridged in convincing customers that Sears merits their attention. In a 1990 survey to measure recognition of 2,000 brand names by the image consulting firm Landor Associates, Sears placed fifth, ahead of such All-American staples as Betty Crocker, Kleenex, Hallmark and Kraft. But when the study turned to the esteem with which consumers regard certain brands, Sears's ranking plummeted to 79.
"A big gap between those two numbers, recognition and esteem, means there's something out of balance in the marketing strategy," said Edwin D. Rice, executive marketing director at Landor. "They need to manage their message. They have the same price-value message as The Gap, but who knows about it?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dorrit Bern, left, and Janice Page, merchandise managers for women's clothing, at the spruced-up Sears in Schaumburg, Ill. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times) (pg. 1);
 
Chart: "Imperatives for an Updated Sears," lists changes made in both appearance, and merchandising and marketing strategies at Sears. (pg. 6)
 
Graph: "Some Stores for Sears to Beat," shows Sears core businesses, the percent of 1991 sales supplied by each and the leading competitors in each area. (Source: U.B.S. Securities) (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: S (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (85%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (59%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (59%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (85%); SIRIS (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (59%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE RETAILERS (91%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (90%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); WOMEN (89%); MARKET SHARE (86%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (77%); RETAIL SALES (76%); SAME STORE SALES (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (64%); 

PERSON: BERN, DORRIT; MARTINEZ, ARTHUR C; STROM, STEPHANIE

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



816 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Thirties Redux: The Return of Trade Wars

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
As the world has stumbled into what President Bush calls a global recession, the economic optimists have been comforted by one fact. The leading industrial nations, they said, had learned from the 1930's, when the Smoot-Hawley tariff sparked trade wars and "beggar thy neighbor" policies deepened and prolonged the Depression.
Perhaps the optimists spoke too soon. 
 Mr. Bush's "new world order," so happily proclaimed after the collapse of Communism, is beginning to look like a case of every country for itself. In Western Europe, the Maastricht dreams of unity lie in tatters, and last week the Bush Administration said the talks on a new world trade agreement had ended in failure.
The current round of world trade talks has been going on for seven years, in large part because no one wants to be blamed for their failure, and efforts are now under way to prevent them from appearing dead. But the French Government, fearful of its angry farmers as legislative elections approach in the spring, is unwilling to accept any deal the American Government could sell to its farmers. The big question now is whether a tit-for-tat round of trade retaliation will soon begin.
So far, the prospect of such battles does not seem to have troubled investors. Stock prices were generally strong last week, especially in Europe, where hopes are again rising that Germany will lower interest rates. "It's kind of like the Cuban missile crisis," said Hugh Johnson, the strategist at First Albany. "I get the feeling we will get to the brink, but then everyone will back down, recognizing the danger."
Maybe so, but some battles are already under way. The British Government may not have wanted to be forced out of Europe's system of managed exchange rates, but it now seems to be following a cheap pound policy to stimulate exports. Mexico, under pressure from its own exporters, agreed last week to more rapid devaluation of the peso. There is grumbling in Europe about the artificially depressed yen, but the Japanese Government is hesitant to curb the country's rising trade surplus when its economy is so weak that the country's money supply is falling.
"Everyone is looking for exports, but nobody can see where growth is coming from," says Steven Nagourney, Lehman Brothers' international strategist.
Sixty years ago, the battles were over tariffs. Now the issue is subsidized exports. Soon it could be taxes. Bill Clinton wants to close "loopholes" for foreign companies. If he does, don't be surprised if there is retaliation against American multinationals abroad.
There is no question that economic war would be bad news for all participants and for the world economy. But domestic pressures to stand up for the local industry in the face of "unfair" foreign competition can be especially strong when economies and governments are both weak. That is the case in country after country.
Cooperation for growth is certainly needed. But it may not be forthcoming.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "The Dow Rises 33.23 to 3,174.41," tracks Dow Jones stock average, Oct. 16-23, 1992; "Little Growth in World Trade," tracks yearly change in exports from industrial countries," 1986-1991; "Money Shrinks in Japan," tracks year-over-year change in Japan's money supply, 4th quarter 1986-3rd quarter 1992.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); FRANCE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); FRANCE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; GREAT DEPRESSION (1930'S) TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); RECESSION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); ELECTIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (72%); EXPORT PRICES (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); EXCHANGE RATES (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); INTEREST RATES (64%); EXPORT PROMOTION (62%); DEVALUATION (61%); MONEY SUPPLY (50%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



817 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1652 words

HEADLINE: Business Diary/October 18-23

BYLINE: By Joel Kurtzman

 BODY:

COMPANIES
 
It May Be a Matter of the Right C.E.O., Wrong Decade 

Just as G.M. was releasing plans to further restructure -- it will consolidate its six North American design and engineering staffs into four groups -- rumors were circulating among Motown's cognoscenti that Robert C. Stempel, G.M.'s chairman and chief executive, would be swept out of office before the board of directors meets Nov. 2. G.M.-watchers were abuzz with talk that his replacement would be John G. Smale, a retired chairman of Procter & Gamble Inc. and a G.M. director who would serve on an interim basis. The job would then go to Jack Smith, the hard-charging executive who turned G.M.'s European operations around. The changes are "about redefining what G.M. will be," said James Womack, a manufacturing consultant in Cambridge, Mass. "Stempel is the perfect person for the G.M. of the 1950's. But he had the misfortune of wandering into the G.M. of the 90's."

Dial-a-Video Is on the Way
 
Tired of hoofing it to the nearest video store to pick up a copy of your favorite spaghetti Western? Last week, the Bell Atlantic Corporation, the regional phone company serving the mid-Atlantic states, said it would begin offering TV service to its customers in 1994, through the phone lines. Most experts assumed that telephone companies needed to replace their old lines with fiber-optic cable to transmit TV signals -- at a national cost of $100 billion to $400 billion. But Bell Atlantic will use existing copper wires with new technology developed by Bellcore, a research consortium of the seven regional Bell companies. The service takes advantage of the Federal Communications Commission's decision to let phone companies offer "video dial tones." Most analysts are cautious -- for now. "This is a long process," said Daniel P. Reingold at Morgan Stanley & Company. "It's not going to happen overnight."

A Pilot Squeeze Play at Delta?
 
Even the strongest airlines have felt the pinch from this year's fare wars. Delta Airlines lost $502 million in fiscal 1992, which ended June 30, and $106.7 million in the first quarter of fiscal 1993, which ended Sept. 30. Last week, Delta said it would lay off up to 200 pilots beginning in December and reduce its purchases of new planes. It is the first time Delta has laid off pilots since the mid-1950's. Though Delta said it hopes to recall the pilots, the Airline Pilots Association thinks the layoffs may be a ploy to wring wage concessions from the company's remaining 9,400 pilots when a new contract is negotiated. "It sure sounds like that to us," said Rhea Nichols, a spokesman for the Delta branch of the union.

McDonnell Douglas's Sour Year
 
The McDonnell Douglas Corporation has had its troubles this year. When it tried to take in a Taiwanese investor group that included the government, not only did McDonnell's unions disapprove, but so did several members of Congress. Then the Taiwanese said they didn't want to invest in the company after all -- just buy planes. In July, cash-starved McDonnell said it would lay off 4,000 to 5,000 workers and put off development of a passenger plane. Last week, analysts said orders for the company's MD-11 wide-body jets have slowed so much McDonnell might have to cut production by 40 percent in 1994. Those cutbacks could result in the elimination of an additional 3,000 jobs at McDonnell Douglas and its suppliers. The "market for these aircraft is soft," said a spokesman for the company.

No More Math Phobia for Barbie
 
For decades Barbie dressed her way into the top of the toy world. Then Mattel Inc. taught her to talk. Among other things, Mattel had Barbie lament that "math class is tough." That phrase -- one of 270 the doll can utter -- caught the ire of the American Association of University Women. Barbie's complaint, the association said, could undermine confidence among girls in their mathematical abilities. "The last thing we would intentionally do would be to have Barbie convey anything but the most aspirational of messages," said Jill E. Barad, Mattel's president. Mattel said last week it would remove the phrase from Barbie's microchip.

The Making of a Talent Empire
 
As agents go, those at the William Morris Agency are the blue-suited Brooks Brothers variety -- conservative, businesslike, a bit stodgy. But they have a huge client list that includes Bill Cosby, the nation's highest-paid entertainer, Candice Bergen and Clint Eastwood. Mid-sized Triad Artists, on the other hand, is more Armani, high class but loose. Not only is Triad solid in Tinseltown -- its clients include Bruce Willis -- but it's big in Nashville, too, where it represents Merle Haggard, Tanya Tucker and others. Last week, after four months of secret negotiations, William Morris bought Triad for an undisclosed sum. The deal "makes us a major player in the motion-picture world and for our music business, it's just incredible," said Jerry Katzman, president of William Morris.

 
 
THE ECONOMY

 
Back to Home-Building
 
For the second month in a row, housing starts rose, the Commerce Department said last week. Housing starts in September increased by 1.4 percent after jumping by 12.6 percent in August. But along with the rise in housing starts, there was more good news: The department reported a 3.7 percent increase in building permits issued, an indicator of future construction. Together the figures represent "the first signal we've gotten in a long time that the beleaguered economy might poke its nose out of its recessionary hole," said Jack M. Albertine, who heads a forecasting firm in Washington.

Improving Jobless Numbers
 
In another upbeat note, the Labor Department reported that new jobless claims for the week ended Oct. 10 fell by 15,000, to 368,000, their lowest level in more than two years. It was the third decrease in new jobless claims in a row.
 
The Mileage Debate
 
In last week's Presidential debate, President Bush said he opposed raising gasoline mileage standards above the current fleet average of 27.5 miles a gallon. Mr. Bush said raising the standards would result in lost jobs -- and Detroit's trade association agrees. But environmental advocates dispute those findings. The American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy, a Washington-based environmental study and lobbying group, recently predicted higher-mileage cars would actually create jobs by allowing consumers to spend less on gas and more on other things. Retooling Detroit would also result in more "engineers, more assemblers, more parts suppliers, and more revenue and economic activity for auto producers," said Howard Geller, the group's executive director.

 
 
INTERNATIONAL

 
Britain's Miners Win One
 
Britain's coal industry has been dying a slow death. Demand is down as industry converts to natural gas and the utilities go nuclear. And Britain's deep pit mines can't compete with the strip mines of America. But the Government -- which owns the mines -- still employs 40,000 politically powerful miners and spends $163 million a month subsidizing the industry. That burden prompted Prime Minister John Major to say his Government would dismiss 30,000 miners and close almost all of the mines. But last week -- under severe pressure even within his own Conservative Party -- Mr. Major backed down. Not only were reprieves granted to 23,000 miners, but 21 mines will now remain. That's still too much coal for Britain. The Government said last week it would seek export markets for the surplus.

Mired in the Trade Bog
 
Europe says it wants to negotiate a new trade agreement with the United States and other countries under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. But even after months of on-again-off-again talks, the European Community has refused to give up subsidizing its agriculture, something the United States has been pressing for. Last week, France huffed that further discussions with the United States were pointless until after the Presidential election. "I don't feel that today the Americans have the capacity to make useful proposals in this area," said Michel Sapin, France's Finance Minister. But France itself faces elections in six months, and with the farmer's vote crucial, Paris is unlikely to make concessions on subsidies. With the talks off, Washington is making plans to retaliate against Europe for subsidizing its exports and barring American agriculture imports.
 
The Bundesbank Obliges
 
Germany's Bundesbank, headed by Helmut Schlesinger, is Europe's sternest taskmaster. It's anti-inflation, high-interest policies have kept prices more or less stable as Germany integrates its eastern states into the West. But it has also created havoc in the European monetary system -- Britain "temporarily" left the system -- and angered the White House, which wants Europe to grow faster. Last week, the Bundesbank let its monocle drop. After injecting money into the economy for a month, it said it would lend money to banks at variable rates. Those actions put downward pressure on interest rates. In a month, German money market rates have fallen to 8.90 percent, from 9.75 percent. They could go lower. "The Bundesbank's intention is to lower money market interest rates in the coming weeks to around 8.50 percent," said Peter Pietsch, an economist with Commerzbank A. G. in Frankfurt.

Pizza and Pepsi for the Steppes
 
Last week Pepsico Inc. signed a complicated barter agreement with Ukraine that will take pizza and Pepsi to the steppes. The agreement calls for Pepsi to use the proceeds from selling $1 billion worth of Ukrainian-built double-hull tankers to build 100 Pizza Huts and five new Pepsi bottling plants. The deal triples Pepsico's investment in Ukraine, and replaces other deals that dissolved along with the Evil Empire.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tanya Tucker; Robert Stempel (Associated Press); Barbie doll; British coal miners (Associated Press); pizza and Pepsi stand in Russia.
 
Graph tracks percent change in monthly housing starts, Sept 1991-Sept. 1992 (Source: Commerce Dept)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (83%); VZ (NYSE) (83%); DAL (NYSE) (64%); MS (NYSE) (63%); PGP (PAR) (57%); PG (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (64%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (63%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (57%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (59%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (83%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (64%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (63%); MORGAN STANLEY (63%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (59%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS LAYOFFS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); AIRLINES (87%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (87%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (87%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (85%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (79%); ENGINEERING (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (71%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (70%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (64%); FIBER OPTICS (64%); PRICE CUTTING (60%); 

PERSON: DAVID DAVIS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



818 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 23; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: At Work;
The Missing Issue in Campaign '92

BYLINE: By BARBARA PRESLEY NOBLE

 BODY:
It may be the year of the woman, but women's issues have been curiously inconspicuous during the Presidential campaign. True, when pressed in the final debate last week, George Bush cited his appointments; Bill Clinton cited his appointments and his award from the National Women's Political Caucus; Ross Perot cited one appointment and his wife and four "beautiful daughters."
But the income issues women's groups used to filter into campaigns, in the last few years via the hapless Democrats, have been obscured this year. The Presidential tickets have been too busy lobbing family-value bombs back and forth, and women themselves have been busy running for office in record numbers. "Women are focused on getting women elected," said Heidi Hartmann, director of the Institute for Women's Policy Research, a Washington economic research group. "There's less energy for the national campaign." 
 The lack of debate on women's issues inspired Ms. Hartmann and several colleagues, all economists and all removed enough from the immediate fray to have a little scholarly perspective, to form the Economists' Policy Group on Women's Issues. Earlier this month the group issued a "women's policy agenda" and rated the two major-party candidates on issues the group regards as crucial to women. The agenda has been endorsed by a two-and-a-half page list of economists, including Nobel prize winners James Tobin, Franco Modigliani and Robert Solow.
The group is concerned almost entirely with classic liberal bread-and-butter issues. The agenda calls for:
* Changes in the welfare system that would make it easier for single mothers -- 40 percent of whom are poor -- to climb out of poverty.
* Renewed efforts to promote "equality of opportunity" in hiring, promotion and wages, by race and gender.
* Federal support of child-care and family-leave initiatives.
* Universal access to health care.
Though the wage gap between men and women has narrowed -- women now make roughly 70 percent of what men make, up from 59 percent in 1968 -- women unattached to men continue to be vulnerable. According to research done by Barbara Bergmann, an American University economist who leads the policy group with Ms. Hartmann, a single mother in the United States needs to make at least $19,000 year to escape poverty, well above the Government's official standard of $10,973 for a family of three.
In France, a single mother can have the equivalent -- or better -- standard of living earning only $13,000 because of Government cash and transfer payments, state-supported day care and a national health program. One consequence of the sievish American welfare system, research indicates, is that women may feel forced to stay in abusive relationships to keep the support of a second wage earner.

THE pay-gap gains of the 80's made it possible for white-collar and professional women to support themselves. But Ms. Hartmann says women remain vulnerable, pointing to less-than-enthusiastic enforcement of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in the Reagan-Bush years. "More depends on particular employers and whether they are compliant," she said.
If the agenda seems weighted heavily toward damage repair after 12 years of a free-market approach to inequality, the economists' group also proposes several policy and legislative moves.
It would, for example, like the Labor Department to establish guidelines for pay equity -- an issue once known by the phrase "comparable worth" -- that would equalize the wage differences between "women's work" and "men's work." It would push Congress to devise a national health-care plan and a child-care system. It would also urge Congress to pass a version of the family-leave legislation recently vetoed by President Bush, less because of the leave itself -- many companies already offer more than the measure calls for -- than because it would confer the right to return to a job. "People underestimate the importance of a job guarantee," Ms. Hartmann said.
The group doesn't apologize for its agenda's $100 billion price tag. Ms. Hartmann theorizes that Mr. Clinton is pedaling softly on issues he basically supports because of the money stigma. But, she says, the group is proposing nothing that virtually every other industrialized country doesn't already provide as a matter of course to its citizens. And nothing that couldn't come about by paring the military budget and raising taxes. Would they -- quick intake of breath -- tax and spend? A big public sector can account for the failure of the market system to provide the "goods" women need, Ms. Hartmann argues: "Women should want big government."
 
 
 
HOW THE CANDIDATES RATED
 Given that the agenda of the Economists' Policy Group on Women's Issues has what some Republicans might call a parlor-pinkish slant, it is no surprise that Gov. Bill Clinton gets a higher grade from the group than President Bush. Mr. Clinton's support of a ban on gender discrimination in Federal hiring, promotion and contracts and uncapping the damage awards available to women who have experienced discrimination helped win him an overall grade of B-. Mr. Bush paid for twice vetoing the Family and Medical Leave Act and a laissez-faire attitude toward affirmative action with a grade of D.
The policy group was unimpressed with the records of Mr. Clinton and Mr. Bush on welfare reform -- they get a C+ and C, respectively -- and health insurance, for which both receive C's. The Administration's four-year failure to introduce a health-care plan incites skepticism, as does the vagueness of Mr. Clinton's proposed cap on health-care expenditures.
Ross Perot was out of the race when the candidates were rated.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Heidi Hartmann, director of the Institute for Women's Policy Research, at her office in Washington. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: ECONOMISTS POLICY GROUP ON WOMEN'S ISSUES; INSTITUTE FOR WOMEN'S POLICY RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR WOMEN'S POLICY RESEARCH (91%); NATIONAL WOMEN'S POLITICAL CAUCUS (58%); NATIONAL WOMEN'S POLITICAL CAUCUS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMISTS POLICY GROUP ON WOMEN'S ISSUES; INSTITUTE FOR WOMEN'S POLICY RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR WOMEN'S POLICY RESEARCH (91%); NATIONAL WOMEN'S POLITICAL CAUCUS (58%); NATIONAL WOMEN'S POLITICAL CAUCUS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: WOMEN; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES WOMEN (95%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); GENDER EQUALITY (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); EQUAL PAY (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); POLITICS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); FAMILY (76%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); FAMILY LEAVE (71%); SINGLE PARENTS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); CHILD CARE (62%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (61%); 

PERSON: HARTMANN, HEIDI; NOBLE, BARBARA PRESLEY BILL CLINTON (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



819 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 9; Page 3; Column 1; Styles of The Times

LENGTH: 206 words

HEADLINE: ON THE STREET;
Love Your Jacket!

 BODY:
There is a cookie-cutter look dominating the autumn fashion scene in Paris. It's a black Chanel jacket with an off-center gold zipper and four nonfunctioning gold buttons. Seven women wearing the jacket, most of whom were strangers to each other, were seated in the same small section of the audience at last Monday's Chanel opening. At least 18 others there were in the same jacket, and all but two were in black. What is the special appeal of the jacket, which retails for $2,480?
Especially in a time of economic strain, this jacket's advantage is that it works with both day and evening wear. At 11 A.M., women were wearing the jacket with both above-the-knee and mid-calf skirts. Others were wearing it with trousers and leggings. At a cocktail party, it was seen with a chiffon skirt, and over satin-finished tights. The zipper allows the wearer to have a lower neckline for the dinner table without sacrificing the jacket's smooth-body shape, and the comfort of a higher neckline for cool autumn days. 
 Last year, the American designer Louis Dell'Olio had similar success with a black jacket with an off-center gold zipper and a double row of nonfunctioning gold buttons. Could Paris now be sampling from New York?

GRAPHIC: Photos of fashions (Bill Cunningham for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3961 COSTUME JEWELRY & COSTUME NOVELTIES, EXCEPT PRECIOUS METAL (91%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (91%); SIC2337 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' SUITS, SKIRTS, & COATS (91%); SIC2331 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' BLOUSES & SHIRTS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF CHANEL CHANEL SAS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF CHANEL

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (73%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL FASHION & APPAREL (90%); 

PERSON: LOUIS DELL'OLIO (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



820 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 8; Page 14; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: ABOUT CARS;
Chrysler Tries to Build Traffic With Its New LH Sedans

BYLINE: By Marshall Schuon

 BODY:
IT was a perfect New York scene, with a neatly turned-out pedestrian threading his way through the automobiles and talking into his black cellular phone. Hollering, actually, trying to make himself heard above the blaring horns and general mess of well-jammed traffic.
I caught part of what he said because the street was narrow and I was part of the problem. 
 It was rush hour, and I was at the wheel of a new LH sedan, one of the 40 cars that Chrysler Corporation's minions were trying to jam -- more or less simultaneously -- into a crowded underground garage.
The cars, marketed as Chrysler Concordes, Dodge Intrepids and Eagle Visions, had come to New York for their debut with the press and with their dealers, and the event had gone on all day, doing its small bit here and there for the gridlock that is the city's state of being.
First, there was Kennedy Airport, where British Airways had trotted out its quickest plane (Concorde, get it?). Then there was the Intrepid museum for a Dodge lineup down at the docks. And, finally, the parking garage at the Hotel Millenium, a sort of farfetched backdrop for the Eagle Vision.
And, yeah, the guy with the phone. He was yelling at his caller: "It's Chrysler Corporation that's tying things up, and I'm selling my damn stock!"
I don't think he was serious. But if he were, he'd better rethink the notion, because the new sedans are classy cars, and they have a better chance than anything else in a very long time of saving America's No. 3 automaker, which thus far has been kept afloat almost solely by its popular minivans and Jeeps.
At heart and in basic anatomy, the Chrysler, Dodge and Eagle are the same car -- but one with a lot going for it. The company has said that the LH models are "the finest handling four-door sedans America has ever produced" for the mid-size, medium-price market. And, hyperbole aside, their "cab-forward" design does make them immensely roomy and rock-solid on the road.
Cab-forward design is something relatively new, but you will be hearing a lot about it in coming months as a result of Chrysler's $80 million campaign to launch the cars. What it refers to, basically, is a structure that puts the wheels closer to the corners of the car and extends the base of the windshield out to the axis of the front wheels.
That makes the car more stable and creates more room for passengers. In the Concorde, Intrepid and Vision, it is particularly noticeable in the rear compartment, which has the leg- and headroom of a much larger automobile. Interior space, in fact, measures 121 cubic feet, which compares to the likes of Ford Taurus, 118 feet, and Acura Legend, 110 feet.
The more expensive Legend does indeed come up when Chrysler officials talk about their new cars, and it was one of the benchmarks that the company used as a target. In particular, the Legend's handling set the parameters for the LH sedans' Touring suspension, one of three levels of stiffness that can be ordered on the cars.
But the competition is legion, and it includes the Taurus, the BMW 5-series, the Honda Accord, Toyota Camry, Nissan Maxima, Buick Regal and Pontiac Bonneville. The LH's are better or worse than the others in various regards, and some of the other cars are faster and better equipped. But few, if any, are as roomy or as inexpensive.
The Dodge is an "entry-level" vehicle for the line, with prices starting at $15,930. The base Eagle Vision carries a sticker of $17,387, and the least expensive Chrysler Concorde is $18,341. Options abound, however, and those prices escalate quickly into the low- to mid-$20,000 range.
Chrysler's emphasis in its ad campaign is that the company has reinvented itself. But it also is taking steps to differentiate the three lines.
For '93, Dodge gets a new corporate logo in the form of a stylized ram's head, and commercials for the Intrepid proclaim that "This changes everything!" Chrysler's marketing people say that Jeep-Eagle division customers go their own way, and the Vision is being sold as the sportiest of the LH's. Ads for the Vision carry the tagline: "Not intended for the general public."
Chrysler itself has always appealed to older and more conservative buyers, and the sleek shape of the Concorde is a bold step whose success with those customers remains to be seen.
Even more daring will be the introduction next March of the Chrysler New Yorker, a car that was presented at this year's auto shows as a concept vehicle.
The New Yorker will have a seven-inch longer body on the LH platform, with a roof whose beautifully rounded rear profile is a direct steal from the classic Jaguar sedans of old. The design is dashing, and a wide grille makes it look even wider than its sisters.
Under the skin, though, the cars are the same, with two engines available. Both are V6's, mounted fore-to-aft but driving the front wheels. The base engine, which bowed in the minivan three years ago, displaces 3.3 liters and produces 153 horsepower. The optional 3.5-liter powerplant is new this year, has 24 valves and yields a healthy 214 horses. Both are Chrysler designs and are produced in America.
An electronically controlled four-speed automatic is the only transmission available, although five- and six-speed manuals reportedly are under consideration. Also -- and depending on future fuel-economy regulations -- a V8 could be in the works. The longitudinal mounting would lend itself rear-drive configuration, and the engineers say a V8 will fit.
Oddly, both of the V6's feel much the same, and the smaller engine makes the car quick enough for conservative drivers. It is also thriftier, with a city-highway economy rating of 20 and 28 miles per gallon. The bigger engine is naturally thirstier and the rating is 18 and 26.
Whichever engine a buyer chooses, it will live under a sharply sloping hood. And, at the wheel, a driver looks down at the road with the hood barely in the line of sight. Visibility is, in fact, very good all round, and the cars handle and drive like much smaller vehicles.
Front and rear treatments are different on all three, and it is tempting to say that some of the sheetmetal is unique to each. In fact, though, the front fenders are plastic rather than metal, which makes them lighter and resistant to dents.
The test car was a Dodge Intrepid, metallic bronze with a tan leather interior, an option that adds $966 to the price and a bit of stiffness to the ride. It also carried the 3.5-liter engine, costing an additional $625, and a "Customer Preferred Group" that included the performance suspension and added $5,230 to the sticker. What with all that, the bottom line was $23,760.
While the Eagle and Concorde share instrument panels, the Dodge has its own look, with large white gauges. Happily, all three cars use easy-to-read analog instruments, and the digital variation is not even offered as an option.
All three offer standard air bags for both driver and front-seat passenger, a major advance in a medium-priced vehicle. Antilock brakes also are standard in the Chrysler and optional on the Dodge and Eagle. And Chrysler's built-in child safety seats are a welcome option for the rear bench.
The tester had buckets in front, although the base car comes with a split bench in front. With the more expensive interior, you get a shifter and cupholders in the console between the seats; in the cheaper version, the shift lever is on the column.
There are some things not to like, in particular the fact that the rear windows go down only halfway, despite the generous width of the doors that could easily accommodate the glass. Then, too, there is a door-pull sunk into the front armrests that falls directly below the elbow of an average-size occupant. It is uncomfortable and surprising in a car whose interior is otherwise so friendly.
Also lacking is an automatic "down" function for the driver's power window, a feature present in much of the competition. But those are mostly minor quibbles in a domestic automobile that is as competent and neatly done as many of the pricier entries from Europe and Japan.
The cars are relatively easy on the pocketbook. They are good on the highway, good in traffic. Just don't try to put 40 of them into the garage at the same time.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Like the other LH sedans, the Dodge Intrepid has a windshield that rakes back at a smooth 63-degree angle.; The Eagle Vision. The LH's are built in Canada, but domestic content is 77 percent. (Chrysler Corporation); As with Concorde and Eagle, the Intrepid has standard air bags for driver and passenger.; The More Things Change Dept.: In 1956, Chrysler used a jet fighter to sell its finned "Forward Look." This year, the company's chairman, Lee Iacocca, posed with a Concorde sedan in front of a Concorde passenger liner. (Photographs by Marshall Schuon/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAY (LSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER CORP CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRYSLER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (69%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS SEDANS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AIRLINES (72%); AIRPORTS (72%); MINIVANS (62%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (52%); 

PERSON: SCHUON, MARSHALL

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



821 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: IDEAS & TRENDS;
The Recording Industry Hedges Its Bets and the Superstars Sign On

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
CYNDI LAUPER clearly understood rock singers when she recorded her hit "Money Changes Everything." In the past months, Prince, Madonna and ZZ Top have announced huge record contracts. Will the economics of those deals affect the choices available to music fans?
It's not immediately clear that they will. Interestingly, politics could play a stronger role in what is heard. In the wake of Warner Brothers rapper Ice-T's "Cop Killer" -- which angered many policemen enough to stage a boycott -- a number of record companies have become more stringent in evaluating the songs they release. 
 Michael Jackson was one of the first to announce a megadeal: a $1 billion package with Sony Music that included his own record label. Then Madonna said she had a $60 million arrangement from Warner and her own label. Most recently Prince announced that he had a $100 million deal with Warner Brothers Records, including financing for his Paisley Park label and a position as a vice president at Warner.
These deals are not exactly what they seem. The biggest stars have always called the tune, and today, as decades ago, a few can command their own labels. Frank Sinatra had the Reprise label, the Beatles, Apple.
Certainly, the stars today are making more money than ever, but the major record companies that remained after the merger mania of the 1980's wield greater clout than those individuals. Despite the hyperbole of their press releases, the singers are getting less than the extraordinary numbers being bandied about.
 
The 'Mini-Maxi' Deal
 The contracts, called "mini-maxi" deals, primarily protect the company. Prince, for example, may make $100 million, and then again he may not. His arrangement with Warner Records is "self correcting," as one record industry executive described it. Prince will get a $10 million advance for the first album, but his advance on each new album will depend on the success of the previous release. If the record is a hit, he will get a $10 million advance on his second album. If it flops, he could get only a $2 million advance on the second. Such a deal does not involve paltry sums, but it protects Warner from owing Prince a fortune should his career wane.
The big stars, however, are crucial for multibillion-dollar businesses like Warner, Sony, MCA Records, RCA and Polygram, which as a result of consolidation are distributing an increasingly high percentage of tapes and discs in the United States and abroad, where English language singers still account for 60 percent of sales.
But the deals do have their risks. RCA Records is now owned by the German conglomerate, Bertelsmann A.G. Once a great label, RCA has fallen on hard times. Its recent contract with ZZ Top, rumored at $35 million, is viewed by some music industry executives as yet another example of poor judgment from a company that has paid too much for a group that is already passe. The critics say the sole justification for the deal was to show Bertelsmann's commitment to RCA.
If the prices for superstars are not likely to affect the choice of music available to the consumer, the politics of the business could. Caught between the principles of the First Amendment and the pressures of public accountability, some record companies are nervously taking a stronger stand with performers. However, the performers involved are not necessarily the highest paid in the industry.
And a few of the groups have indicated a willingness to go along with their distributors. For example, MCA Records, which distributes for JDK Records, recently pulled from release an album by JDK's rap group, FU2. The group's lyrics to "One Head, One Backstage Pass" offended a number of MCA employees, including some women staff members. Tragedy, another rap group, was asked to remove from its album "Black Rage," a particularly violent song that talked about a police shooting. The album is distributed by A & M Records, which is owned by Polygram.
Though rap accounts for only 10 percent of music sales, a $7.8 billion market, no company wants to antagonize its talent publicly. So negotiations become a tense balancing act between distributors and artists.
 
Company Clout
 Most artists, by signing with big companies like Warner, acknowledge that the companies can provide more clout at the record stores and more exposure than an independent might. Ice-T, rather than fight the police-led boycott, asked that Warner recall his album. In turn, the giant record companies can exert some leverage of their own with singers -- both over lyrics and contracts.
Today's high-flying mini-maxi deals should not stop companies from supporting new groups and new music formats. Unlike the film business, where the capital costs of producing even a moderate budget film are great, a new record costs less than $1 million to put out. And even today, on the top 200 chart, released each week by Billboard, the trade publication, at least three of the top 10 hits are from relative unknowns.
"If the companies lose on the superstars, they may cut back on new acts," said Irving Azoff, who runs Giant Records, a joint venture with Time Warner's record group, "but on most of these deals it is far too early to gauge the results." In the end, industry analysts say, the economy, one of the records market's most brutal critics, will determine the course of careers.
Correction
An article last Sunday about a hypothetical 50-cent-a-gallon increase in the gasoline tax misstated the difference between the revenue that it might raise and the spending projected for electric car research by a Federal-private entity, the Advanced Battery Consortium. The consortium's research-cost figure, $100 million a year, is only one five-hundredths as much as the $50 billion in potential gas-tax income.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (60%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: ZZ TOP (MUSIC GROUP) BERTELSMANN AG (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: ZZ TOP (MUSIC GROUP)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; WAGES AND SALARIES; CONTRACTS MUSIC INDUSTRY (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); RECORD INDUSTRY (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); MUSIC (90%); RECORD RELEASES (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); RAP MUSIC (73%); HIP HOP CULTURE (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (59%); 

PERSON: PRINCE (SINGER); MADONNA MADONNA (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



822 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 4; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Campuses Buck Clinton On Welfare

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE

 BODY:
THEY canceled classes. They sang "Blowin' in the Wind." They carried placards that read, "Willie Horton was an abused/neglected child."
Teach-ins were back last week at the School of Social Work at Columbia University and about 200 other graduate programs around the country. The events, which at Columbia included lectures and a march around campus, were meant to protest cuts in welfare benefits, as well as what the organizers called the demonization of people on welfare . 
 The Columbia event offered a look at the gulf between old-style liberals, who dominated the campus teach-in, and Democrats like Gov. Bill Clinton, whose view of the welfare system forms part of his claim to breaking with his party's past. Traditional liberals have argued that what welfare families lack is economic opportunity and that what they need, most of all, is money. Democrats like Mr. Clinton say the system should enforce certain kinds of behavior, requiring that recipients work or study as a condition of aid. Mr. Clinton has said that if he is elected he will reduce benefits to mothers after two years if they do not get a job or perform community service.
David Fanshel, the Columbia professor who organized the teach-in, said that Mr. Clinton should expect a fight, because "We have a different agenda." While professors of social work control no voting bloc in Congress, they do train many of the workers who staff the bureaucracy that would have to enact the new policies.
Mr. Fanshel and others contended that the main problem for welfare families is poverty, not dependency. They suggested that the Government set a uniform national payment that, along with food stamps, lifts every family above the poverty line, as only two states now do. The benefits for a mother with two children range from $412 in Mississippi to $1,184 in Alaska.
The organizers also called for other income support policies, based on Western European models. These include a $1,000 child allowance, given to every family regardless of income, and a program that pays child support to single mothers when the government fails to collect it from absent fathers.
A record number of Americans are on welfare. There are 4.8 million families -- or more than 13 million people -- relying on Aid to Families with Dependent Children, the main Federal program.
The country reacts to them with a split personality. It frets that almost one American child in four now lives in poverty. But it also frets over the perception that their mothers, or at least some of them, are behaving in unacceptable ways -- not working, not studying, having children when they are too young and poor to support them.
Wisconsin has begun cutting grants to mothers whose children do not attend school. New Jersey plans to stop giving mothers additional benefits for additional children. California will vote on Nov. 3 whether to cut benefits by 25 percent.
 
Jobs for Millions of Mothers
 Past experiments suggest that the cuts and restrictions are unlikely to bring big behavioral changes. And in an economy that is laying off people with solid resumes, the social workers ask where 4.8 million welfare mothers will find work. When Michigan eliminated 80,000 adults from its welfare rolls earlier this year, some found jobs, but others resorted to selling blood and sleeping in homeless shelters.
A mother with two children and no outside income is expected to pay rent and feed and clothe her children on an average of $644 a month in welfare and food stamps, a decline of 27 percent in the past two decades. It is no wonder, then, that researchers have found that virtually all welfare mothers cheat by not reporting outside income.
Mr. Clinton has proposed spending an additional $6 billion a year on tax credits and training to help people on welfare. But if they do not find jobs within two years, he has pledged to make them work off their grants. The teach-in critics noted that this leaves welfare mothers no less poor, just busier. Several professors argued that the Government should guarantee public-works jobs for women now on welfare at a wage that would lift them from poverty -- the kind of program that succeeded during the Great Depression. But it would cost tens of billions of dollars today.
Those wishing to reverse the fortunes of the poor will need savvy not just in policy but politics as well. Among the impressions left by the teach-in is the gap between the way most Americans view social deprivation and the way professors of social work do: It is hard to imagine anyone outside a school of social work who would rally around Willie Horton.
Part of the day's activities involved watching a videotaped panel discussion that included two conservative scholars. Charles Murray of the American Enterprise Institute argued that the predominance of single-parent families was having calamitous effects on the black inner-city and that the welfare system "seduces" women to have children. Lawrence Mead, a political scientist at New York University, argued that the main reason for chronic poverty was the inability of the underclass to capitalize on opportunity. Both comments drew hisses and cackles from the crowd.
"At a forum here, you have to be careful what you say," remarked one student, concerned about what she called the conformity of thought.
The student had just returned from five years of anti-poverty work in Africa and South America, and was perplexed about the mix of external oppression and self-defeat that shapes the American inner city.
"The public thinks poor people are totally respsonsible for their situation," she said. "I think we as social workers tend to go too far the other way, that people aren't responsible at all."
"I'm struggling in terms of what the reality is," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Protesting welfare benefit cuts at Columbia University last week. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (89%); CHILDREN (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); FAMILY (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); ELECTIONS (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); SINGLE PARENTS (66%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); DEPARLE, JASON BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



823 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: IDEAS & TRENDS;
U.S. Lead in Software Faces a Rising Threat

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO

 BODY:
ON a tour of Russia last summer John Morrison, a software designer for the Star Wars anti-missile defense system, was startled to find dozens of small companies using the most advanced American software tools to write programs that rival America's best efforts from electronic spreadsheets to video games. "The surprising thing," he said, "was that Russians are doing more with our best technology than we are. You have world-class programmers who were willing to work for $200 a month."
Low labor costs in foreign countries and dramatic changes in computer technology have led Mr. Morrison and some other software experts to believe that the United States' dominant position in this crucial high-technology sector may soon be challenged. Until now this country's lead in software has appeared unassailable, and the outlook for computer programmers has been one of the few bright spots on the American economic scene. The Bureau of Labor Statistics' projections through 2005 anticipated a need for 613,000 programmers and systems analysts, one of the country's five largest growth categories. Today, however, Russia, India, Brazil and Singapore, among other countries, are making the development of an indigenous software industry a top priority. These countries and others are eagerly offering their brightest technical workers to United States companies, frequently to do the most boring and repetitive programming tasks for low wages. American companies may well find it compelling to export such jobs. 
 In a controversial book published this year, Edward Yourdon, a software consultant, argues that the Government's job predictions are likely to be a mirage. In "The Decline and Fall of the American Programmer," he contends that there will be massive unemployment among American programmers, systems analysts and software engineers before the end of the decade. "We assume that our supposed edge in creativity and innovation will continue to make us dominant," he said. "But a huge part of the software industry involves mature technologies and that's an area in which the United States will be vulnerable."
Maturation means, for one thing, that many applications that once required customized programs can now be done with standardized modules, much as pre-fabricated units simplify the construction of a house that had to be built laboriously by a master carpenter. Different modules encompass a variety of functions so that a programmer sometimes merely links pre-existing modules. And assembling modules requires fewer programmers than creating a program from scratch.
 
Easy Does It
 For another thing, some modules require only the level of programming that a user with little background in computers can provide. Lotus 1-2-3, for example, turns every accountant into a programmer and displaces the job of someone once required to accomplish the same result. Such easy-to-master, off-the-shelf software is increasingly the norm as the cost of hardware, especially the personal computer, declines. In fact, at $20.7 billion this year, the off-the-shelf market almost matches the $21.4 billion market for custom software.
While attention is still given to the young hotshot programmers of Silicon Valley and Route 128 around Boston, the vast majority of American programmers now work for large corporations, mostly maintaining the programs that run everything from airline reservation systems to inventory and accounting processes. With $120 billion a year at stake in the global software business, it is no wonder that America's industry is a prime target for foreign competitors. Mr. Yourdon predicts computer programmers will meet the same fate that befell American autoworkers in the 1970's and 1980's at the hands of the Japanese.
Already Texas Instruments and Citicorp have established software development operations in India. Borland International, based in Scotts Valley, Calif., developed its popular Quattro spreadsheet in Hungary. Earlier this year, Sun Microsystems hired a group of crack Russian computer designers to develop future Sun systems. "Anywhere in the world that has a lower standard of living and has a structure with programming talent is a potential source of competition with the United States," said Capers Jones, chairman of Software Productivity Research. Also, as with automobiles, American pre-eminence seems vulnerable on another troublesome front: quality. A survey this year by Software Productivity Research Inc., a consulting firm, found that United States software quality ranked seventh behind Japan, England, Sweden, Norway, Canada and the Netherlands.
Still, Government economists counter that there is little reason to expect dramatic changes in the growth outlook for software employment between now and the end of the decade. Megan Barkume, an economist at the Bureau of Labor Statistics who tracks programming and other high technology jobs, said, "I believe that growth in information technologies will continue at its current pace although the growth in the need for programmers will slow in the future."
For the American computer programmer, that is scant reassurance. Already there are fewer programmers in Los Angeles and New York then there are in Tokyo and London.
"I don't think that anyone in the software industry has any reason to feel comfortable," said Jim Davis, an independent Silicon Valley programmer who was unemployed for half of 1992. "There is a general pressure to push down wages in the industry. How can you compete with people who are willing to work for $800 a year?"

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); INDIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (99%); INDIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); SOFTWARE PRODUCTS; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS COMPUTER SOFTWARE (93%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (91%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (91%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); TRENDS (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (89%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); SPREADSHEET SOFTWARE (78%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (78%); TECHNOLOGY MATURITY (76%); ENGINEERING (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); STATISTICS (67%); CONSTRUCTION (63%); 

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN JOHN MORRISON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



824 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Why the Candidates Resist Saying 'Prime the Pump'

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
EVER since President Franklin D. Roosevelt launched the Works Progress Administration and other New Deal ventures to help the one in four Americans out of work during the Great Depression, policymakers have looked to fiscal stimulus as a life raft to rescue the nation from recession. Though the success of the New Deal is debated -- it took World War II to end the Depression -- the vast job creation program, based on the precepts of John Maynard Keynes, the British economist, put almost four million Americans to work building the Hoover Dam, LaGuardia Airport and other public projects. Some economists say it laid the basis for more equitable distribution of wealth when recovery occurred.
This year, even though the economy remains stalled, all three Presidential candidates are looking askance at fiscal stimulus, the use of deficit spending to create jobs and consequent growth. 
 President Bush, Gov. Bill Clinton and Ross Perot are all pushing plans to strengthen the economy in the long term, but they are loath to try short-term stimulus because increasing the deficit would open them to charges of fiscal irresponsibility.
This reticence could disappear around Inauguration Day. Whoever is elected will want to get off to a strong start and may turn to fiscal stimulus because nothing else seems likely to jolt the economy.
"If Clinton is elected and the economy is flat or negative into February, you don't have to be a rocket scientist to see that he will call his advisers together and say, 'I want a plan to get this economy moving again,' " said Robert F. Westcott, an economist with the WEFA Group, a consulting firm in Bala Cynwyd, Pa.
In Mr. Clinton's plan, he proposes to spend $20 billion a year on highways, high-speed rail and other public investment projects. Few economists view his approach as fiscal stimulus, however, because spending would be offset by measures to simultaneously reduce the deficit, like increasing taxes on the wealthy and trimming numerous government programs, including defense. (His plan would not, however, reduce the deficit by nearly as much as Mr. Clinton promises, most economists say.)
President Bush's plan relies on lower taxes, spending cuts and deregulation, but Administration officials admit it is not a plan to spur short-term growth.
Mr. Perot's plan to eliminate the deficit over four years is the opposite of fiscal stimulus. By increasing taxes and cutting spending, it would slow growth for several years before leading to faster growth late this decade. Many economists feel most Americans, weary from years of stagnating income, may not want to wait that long.
Indeed, with the economy sliding sideways like a lethargic lobster, more and more economists want the candidates to promote stimulus plans. The opposing view is that this kind of pump-priming often does more harm than good, raising fears of higher inflation and pushing long-term interest rates higher, which undermines housing construction and business investment. Besides, some economists say, the economy is slowly picking up steam and by the time fiscal stimulus has road builders hiring workers, growth will be so strong that the stimulus will no longer be needed.
Every billion dollars spent on public works yields about 25,000 jobs directly, and by creating orders for cement or new tractors, another 15,000 jobs indirectly, according to DRI/McGraw-Hill, a consulting firm in Lexington, Mass. But a stimulus plan would not put people back to work in days or weeks. If the next President pushed a program through Congress in February, it might take a month for Maine or Mississippi to bid a highway re-paving contract, and another month for the winning company to buy asphalt and hire workers. Plans to rebuild bridges or construct new airports or high-speed railroads could take much longer. Not before mid-1993 or later might there would be a measurable impact on jobs, said Francis B. Francois, executive director of the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
The 50 states say they have $1.8 billion of highway plans that could be begun within 30 days. The Federal Highway Administration says $45 billion more is needed each year to bring the nation's decaying roads back to satisfactory condition. It also says 134,000 of the 555,000 bridges need to be repaired or rebuilt.
All this spending could run into bumps along the way. Cash-strapped states could find it hard to ante up their share to match the Federal money -- roughly $1 for every four Federal dollars. And northern states, because of their colder climates, might take longer than southern states to start programs.
DRI/McGraw-Hill estimates that a $40 billion public investment program would create 640,000 jobs in 1993 and 1.25 million in 1994. This would reduce the jobless rate, currently 7.5 percent, by one percentage point. And the hard-core unemployed might be missed: "These programs don't do much for those who need the jobs most," said Eli Ginzberg, a professor emeritus at Columbia University. "Unions usually have a big say in these programs, and blacks don't get the jobs." He suggested a program of "public service," not just public investment, like using Federal money to hire more security guards for city schools. Other suggestions include giving states and municipalities money to hire welfare recipients or the long-term unemployed to be clerks or mechanics.
This approach leads many conservatives to grouse about make-work programs, like hiring receptionists for offices where the phone rings once a day. Liberals have gripes, too. When President Carter launched a public employment program involving 750,000 workers, many unions complained that cities fired experienced workers and used the Federal money to hire lower-paid replacements.
In theory, anyway, a stimulus program tilted heavily toward investment, not public service, would do most to create jobs and build a more efficient America, experts say. It should help allay fears of inflation.
Long-term interest rates have risen recently in part because investors believe that a Clinton Presidency would mean more economic activism than under President Bush. To investors, such activism signals faster growth and higher inflation. Although today's economy is underheated, Wall Streeters fear stimulus could lead to overheating in several years. But advocates of such programs say it's foolish to think pump-priming will cause prices to ramp upward.
"The costs of not acting, I think, are much greater than the costs of acting," said Robert Eisner, an economist at Northwestern University. "We have almost no inflation now. The inflation hawks are fighting the last war."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some economists urge spending on public projects to create jobs. An inspector works on the Metro line in Wheaton, Md., during construction in 1990. (Martha Tabor/Impact Visuals)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TAX INCREASES (85%); ELECTIONS (78%); TAX RELIEF (77%); RECESSION (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); BUDGETS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); JOB CREATION (71%); INFLATION (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); DEREGULATION (60%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); PEROT, ROSS GEORGE W BUSH (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



825 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Lily-Livered Neo-Wilsonian! The New Political Tag Game

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
AS the saying goes, you can't tell the players without a scorecard, but what if the game changes and the scorecard stays the same? That is the situation this political season, when the labels "conservative" and "liberal" no longer seem to fit the players, but no one has quite come up with new ones.
"These labels now disinform rather than inform," said Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, a veteran of many political wars. "We are headed for a new political language to describe a new political terrain -- one in which we are not the economic colossus of the world, which we have been for a century, and one in which we are not locked in a struggle with totalitarianism, which we have been for half a century." 
 Fear not. Ideologues and pundits are already busy sewing new uniforms, and it may not be long before you hear about "neo-Wilsonians" taking the field against "realists" and "Trumanites" in Democratic foreign policy debates, while "Murphy Brown traditionalists" and "libertarians" slug it out on the Republican side.
Don't like those labels? Then wait five minutes. White House wags have just labeled the young Republican interns in the Bush campaign as "mini-cons," and Pat Buchanan as a "neo-Calhounist," a reference to Mr. Buchanan's isolationist, state's-rights agenda evocative of John C. Calhoun's.
 
From 'Kook' to 'Nut'
 The New Republic coined "homo-cons" to describe gay conservatives, and its editor in chief, Martin Peretz, came up with "paleo-liberals" to describe those diehard, pro-quota, shun-the-use-of-force Democrats who he fears will try a comeback in a Clinton Administration.
Spy magazine topped everyone, though. It has just presented its own political spectrum for the 1990's, describing the players from far left to far right as follows: "kook," "progressive," "concerned," "moderate," "right-thinking," "patriot," "nut."
The political agenda that made sense of the terms "conservative" and "liberal" was set in stone by the New Deal. The question then was what roles should a market economy and the welfare state play in providing every American a decent standard of living and in moderating cyclical economic downturns. Liberals favored more government, conservatives less.
Today some new questions are on the table. In domestic policy the question is: what is the proper role of government in dealing with an American economy that no longer seems structurally equipped to remain competitive in a globally intertwined world?
In foreign policy, the old question was how best to respond to the Soviet Union. Today the new question is how best to respond to a world in which nations are simultaneously fragmenting ethnically and politically while consolidating economically. That is, how best to respond to a world in which ethnic-cleansing zones and free-trade zones exist side-by-side?
For these questions, several Democratic schools of thought are now in session. In foreign policy, the most prominent group in the Clinton campaign is the "neo-Wilsonians." This term applies to Democrats who want foreign policy focused more on values and spreading democracy, but who also believe that it can't be overly moralistic or averse to the use of force to resolve complex crises like Bosnia. Also in the Clinton camp are "neo-Trumanites," who share the neo-Wilsonians' sober internationalism, but are a little bit more hard-headed.
 
That Annoying 'Label Lag'
 Anthony Lake, Mr. Clinton's top foreign policy adviser, who years ago got tabbed as a dove for opposing the Vietnam war, argues that the labels "dove" and "hawk" are meaningless today, when the issues are totally different and a neo-Wilsonian like himself advocates a limited use of force to deal with situations like the Balkans. Mr. Lake may be experiencing what will be the most common political malady of the 1990's: "label lag." As he put it: "The world has changed and to carry a label that contradicts your views is very irritating."
In both parties there also are "realists," who think America should be involved only in foreign policy problems that touch on immediate strategic interests, and "isolationists," who don't believe in foreign policy at all.
In domestic affairs, there is a "libertarian school" among Republicans, led by Jack Kemp, that argues for individual choice on personal questions, like abortion and schools, and for laissez-faire economics. Its adherents should find themselves opposed by cultural "traditionalists," prominent among them Pat Robertson, who say Government should have a role in shaping family values and moral choices. In between will be the "problem solvers" -- a Jim Baker-Gerald Ford group of Republican pragmatists who favor limited tax increases, limited welfare and limited family values, but are motivated by solving problems, not reaching ideological goals.
On economic issues, Mr. Clinton is straddling two Democratic camps. One is the "Wall Street liberals," who argue that the economy is not merely in a cyclical trough but a structural decline that can be reversed only by improving productivity and competitiveness. They want to use market forces to carry out this agenda, while also focusing keenly on longer-term deficit reduction. The other school, which might be called the "Japan liberals," favors Government-directed industrial policies like those that have made Japan such a competitive dragon, and is willing to be slightly less aggressive about the deficit to protect social programs and growth.
Still don't like those labels? You may not be alone.
Senator Moynihan, referring to the Republicans who in 1884 deserted their candidate to vote for Grover Cleveland, said, "Put me down as a mugwump."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; NAMES, ORGANIZATIONAL POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); LIVING STANDARDS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



826 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 217 words

HEADLINE: Prerequisite for College: Banking 101

 BODY:
A finance quiz: If the American economy is adversely affected by its hugh debt and one prescription to improve the economy is to create a better, college-educated work force, how do people pay for a college education?
 Increasingly, the answer is debt. 
 As college costs continue to outpace increases in income, record numbers of families are turning to loans to pay for college. Fifteen years ago, loans accounted for 17 percent of all student aid; now they are 50 percent.
 And as the number of loans increased, defaults on student loans increased faster. The Federal Government had almost $3 billion in default costs in fiscal 1992.
 Gov. Bill Clinton cited the default figures in the second televised Presidential debate when he was asked how he would finance his education plan - a guarantee to every eligible student, a college education, in exchange for a few years of government service or a surcharge on the student's future income taxes.
 Governor Clinton says his plan would cost $8 billion a year above the current costs of $3 billion in loan defaults and $1 billion in bank fees.
 Neither President Bush nor Ross Perot has proposed dramatic changes in the current system.
 Campaign promises focus on the figure. At right are snapshots from college financing's recent past.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "The Loan Explosion" shows total Federal guaranteed student loans given each year from '82 to '92; "Students With Loans" shows percentage of students receiving Federal guaranteed student loans each year from '82 to '90; "In Default" shows total default costs for the Federal guaranteed student loan program each year from '82 to '92; "The Typical Family's Dilemma" shows average costs of tuition and fees as a share of the median family income each year from '82 to '91 (Sourecs: The College Board; Census Bureau; U.S. Department of Education)
 
Chart: "The Current Price Tag" lists average charges for four-year public and private colleges

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (59%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (59%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (59%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (59%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; CREDIT; TUITION; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); LABOR FORCE (78%); TUITION FEES (77%); STUDENT EXPENSES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); FAMILY (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (69%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (69%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



827 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 4; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: IDEAS & TRENDS;
Less Than Full Equivalency

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON

 BODY:
FOR decades, the General Educational Development test, or G.E.D., has been regarded as a respectable alternative to a four-year high school diploma, one that a growing proportion of high school dropouts have taken as a way to resume their education or enter training programs.
Now evidence is emerging, part academic, part empirical, that the people who have G.E.D. certificates remain well behind regular high school graduates in earning power as well as in other, more subtle qualities . 
 A University of Chicago economist, James J. Heckman, published a paper this spring that has stunned the G.E.D. Testing Center, which is part of the non-profit American Council on Education. Using Census Bureau figures, Dr. Heckman demonstrated that in his sample of men, 25 and 28 years old, G.E.D. holders earn little more than dropouts with no certification, and far less than people with high school diplomas.
"Exam-certified high school equivalents are statistically indistinguishable from high school dropouts," he reported. "There is no cheap substitute for schooling."
Some G.E.D. graduates do very well. Gov. Jim Florio of New Jersey, Waylon Jennings, the country singer, and the comedian Bill Cosby are some of the better-known holders of the certificate. (Mr. Cosby later graduated from Temple University and earned a Ph.D. in education from the University of Massachusetts.)
Last week, it came out that the Army has quietly stopped accepting the G.E.D. holders into the service on the same basis as high school graduates, because recruits with G.E.D.'s fail basic training and are kicked out of the service at nearly twice the rate of those with high school diplomas.
 
Key to State Jobs
 The G.E.D. Testing Service maintains that Dr. Heckman's sample of G.E.D. holders was too small to be meaningful. As for the Army's decision, the service concedes that the certificate only measures academic skills, not the more elusive quality of tenacity.
G.E.D.'s continue to account for a growing share of all high school diplomas, amounting to 14 percent of the total last year, compared to five percent 20 years ago. Dr. Heckman credits the increase to the expansion of Federal and state job training programs that require a G.E.D., a benefit of obtaining the certificate.
Defenders of the G.E.D. also make a muted social argument for accepting the G.E.D. on the same basis as the high school diploma. G.E.D.-takers are poorer, more likely to be black or Hispanic and possess fewer family advantages than those who complete high school, they observe. To begin discounting the value of the G.E.D. now, just as more and more disadvantaged people seize a chance to improve their lives, only adds to the difficulties of people who deserve credit for what they have achieved, and encouragement to go on.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Women studying for G.E.D. exams in Tulsa. (Steve Jennings)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (77%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION; GED TESTING CENTER TEMPLE UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL (55%); AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION (83%); AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (54%); TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (54%); TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION; GED TESTING CENTER AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION (83%); AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (54%); TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (54%); TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (77%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; DROPOUTS; GENERAL EDUCATIONAL DEVELOPMENT TEST (GED) SECONDARY SCHOOLS (94%); HIGH SCHOOLS (93%); HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (92%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (90%); TRENDS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MILITARY TRAINING (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (76%); ARMIES (73%); COUNTRY MUSIC (66%); CENSUS (55%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (51%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER BILL COSBY (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



828 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1642 words

HEADLINE: INSURERS PREPARE TO SEEK RATE RISES AFTER DISASTERS

BYLINE: By PETER KERR

 BODY:
Insurance for homes and automobiles is expected to rise in cost 10 percent or more in some states, and perhaps become harder to obtain, after the staggeringly high losses to insurers from Hurricane Andrew and other recent disasters.
The losses this year, estimated at more than $10 billion, come after a number of difficult years for the property-casualty industry. And they come while lower interest rates are reducing the return on insurance companies' investments. As a result, analysts and industry executives say, many companies will experience cash shortages in the next 12 months and will be under pressure to raise rates.
 
An Excuse to Gouge?
 Nonetheless, consumer advocates say many insurance companies are far healthier than they would have the public believe and are trying to use the catastrophes as an excuse to gouge the public. 
 The conflict was stoked when an internal memo from the American International Group, a major property-casualty insurer, was published in The Washington Post. In it, J. W. Greenberg, executive vice president, wrote that Hurricane Andrew was "an opportunity to get price increases now." Maurice R. Greenberg, A.I.G.'s chairman and J. W. Greenberg's father, said the memo's meaning had been taken out of context. Last month, the insurance commissioners of Florida and Louisiana took the unusual step of freezing A.I.G.'s premiums.
 The debate over how consumers will be affected by the year's disasters -- the greatest run of insured losses in this century -- goes beyond a disagreement over the reams of numbers pouring in from disaster areas in Florida, Hawaii and other states. It is part of a continuing war between consumer advocates and the industry over how America should distribute the costs of big risks and whether insurers are treating consumers fairly.
At the heart of their conflict is the debate between consumer advocates on the one hand and many economists and analysts on the other over how the financial health of the insurance industry should be judged.
Some companies say moderate price increases on personal lines of insurance may take place in coastal states from Texas to Florida and up the East Coast, possibly as far north as New Jersey. Prices may also be affected in California, where insurers pay for catastrophe reinsurance for earthquakes. No one is certain how much rates might go up in each state; industry analysts say perhaps 5 to 15 percent.
One thing that could prevent price rises, analysts say, would be a strong reaction by the public and regulators.
"Hurricane Andrew was a fundamental shock to the system," said an executive of one big insurance company who insisted on anonymity. "Either prices are going to have to go up somewhat in disaster-prone states, or companies are going to have to back out of the business."
He added, "But insurance commissioners like John Garamendi in California will be saying, 'By golly, I am not going to let the people suffer.' " Mr. Garamendi, an elected official, has enraged the industry with policies that he calls pro-consumer but that many companies say are a way to further his political ambitions.
 
 
Costliest Disaster Ever
 After an original estimate of $7.3 billion of losses in Florida, industry experts last week revised their estimates to $10.2 billion in Florida plus another $500 million in Louisiana. Those losses are more than twice the $4.2 billion insurers lost in what had been the nation's most expensive storm, Hurricane Hugo in 1989.
While insurers were still catching their breath after Andrew, Hurricane Iniki hit Hawaii and cost an additional $1.6 billion, making it the nation's third-costliest storm. And all of that followed losses from the Los Angeles riots and a flood in downtown Chicago, as well as severe hailstorms and other disasters.
Altogether, the industry is expected to pay at least $16 billion in claims on disasters this year, according to the American Insurance Services Group, which estimates industrywide damages from disasters. Most insurers will be able to recoup about a third of those losses after taxes. The last four years, which have included other losses like the collapse of oil platforms and the San Francisco earthquake, have become the most costly of this century to the property-casualty industry.
But it is not those losses alone that will create pressures to increase prices, some analysts say, but long-term trends in the industry.
"Hurricane Andrew will not in itself raise rates," said Orin Kramer, an analyst and industry consultant in Fort Lee, N.J. "But the largest catastrophe losses in insurance history follow five years of overall deteriorating financial performance and growing cash-flow problems."
 
 
Losses From Underwriting
 Mr. Kramer pointed to the extent of the industry's losses on underwriting -- the fact that together the industry has paid out more than it has taken in through premiums on all types of property casualty insurance. A. M. Best, the insurance-company rating concern in Oldwick, N.J., says the industry has lost an average of nearly 10 cents on the dollar on underwriting in the last decade.
In good years, companies more than make up those losses with income from investments. Since 1986, investment income has covered those losses but left the industry only modest profit margins of 5 to 8 percent.
John Snyder, a senior vice president of A. M. Best, said that with lower interest rates, property-casualty insurers are expected to realize investment income of only 3 to 4 percent this year. Together with this year's heavy losses, profits will be far harder to achieve, he said.
In recent weeks, Wall Street has speculated intensely on whether the storm losses will lead to a rise in commercial insurance rates, the premiums charged to businesses. The impact on commercial prices remains unclear, many analysts say, because the losses are spread across an industry with $160 billion in capital.
But Bruce Ballantine, a senior analyst with Moody's Investors Service in New York, says a point often missed in such discussions is that the losses from Hurricane Andrew were not distributed equally among insurers. They fell disproportionately on the segment of the industry that specializes in personal lines of insurance and has perhaps a third of the industry's total capital.
 
An Eye on Capital
 Allstate and State Farm, for example, together write about a third of the nation's auto and homeowners policies. Allstate's after-tax losses of $1.1 billion equal about 20 percent of the company's capital. State Farm's $1.4 billion in losses equal about 8 percent of capital.
The amount of capital is crucial to an insurance company because it serves as a buffer against unexpected losses. It also limits the amount of insurance the company can write. Generally, state regulators prefer that insurers write policies whose premiums do not add up to much more than twice the insurers' capital, or net worth.
Still another factor that may affect prices for individuals, analysts say, is the extreme tightening in the market for disaster reinsurance, which is insurance that insurance companies buy so that when a large disaster hits, they share the costs with others.
Even before Andrew, losses from the last three years had already drastically reduced the amount of reinsurance being written by Lloyd's of London and other British reinsurers. Continental Insurance of the United States, which wrote $250 million in reinsurance premiums annually, said that after heavy losses from Andrew, it was leaving the field.
 
View of Consumer Groups

 Michael Frinquelli, an analyst for Salomon Brothers, who expects average rate increases of as much as 10 percent for personal types of insurance, points out that the question of how well property-casualty insurers have done in recent years depends on what numbers you look at.
If one looks at only underwriting results and investment income in the last decade, returns for the industry were poor -- about 11 percent for those who have invested in the insurance industry, compared with 15 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500. But if one counts the gains insurers made on their stock and bond portfolios, the number rises to a much healthier 17 percent since 1981.
Robert Hunter, president of the National Insurance Consumer Organization in Alexandria, Va., says regulators must take into account the fact that the property-casualty industry increased its capital $20 billion in 1991 alone, much of which came as a result of dropping interest rates that pushed up the value of insurers' bonds. Those capital increases, Mr. Hunter said, more than make up for this year's losses.
In addition, Mr. Hunter said, insurers received some good news recently in results from the private passenger-car market. In the last 18 months, underwriting results there actually improved sharply, according to data gathered by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, he said. In 1991, returns for insurance companies jumped 10 percent, largely because people were driving less and having fewer accidents during the recession.
Most important, Mr. Hunter said, companies should not be allowed to charge the public for past losses. The theory behind insurance regulation, he said, is that prices should be based on predictions of losses in the future. A large storm like Andrew, Mr. Hunter said, should have a small impact on the cost of personal lines of insurance in some coastal areas. Price increases as a result of Hurricane Hugo, for example, were limited to 3 to 4 percent for homeowners and other property insurance in South Carolina.
Mr. Hunter said he expected the companies to try to use the hurricanes as an excuse to raise prices even more in insurance for businesses, a move he and other opponents of the industry would likely dispute.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); WPO (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); WASHINGTON POST CO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INSURANCE; CONSUMER PROTECTION; AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE AND LIABILITY; HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; HURRICANE ANDREW; CASUALTY INSURANCE; PROPERTY INSURANCE INSURANCE (94%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (92%); HURRICANES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (89%); INSURANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (89%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); REINSURANCE (79%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (79%); SPECIALTY LINES INSURANCE (79%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); REAL ESTATE INSURANCE (79%); CATASTROPHE REINSURANCE (79%); CATASTROPHIC LOSSES (79%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); WEATHER (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); COASTAL AREAS (60%); 

PERSON: KERR, PETER MAURICE R GREENBERG (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



829 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: Baker, Informing Iraqis of Credits, Asked for Help With Palestinians

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 24

 BODY:
Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d sent a message to Iraq in November 1989 telling the Iraqis that the United States had just approved new grain credits and seeking Baghdad's influence in persuading Palestinians to take part in peace talks with Israel, a newly declassified document shows.
Although the message from Mr. Baker, now the White House chief of staff, does not explicitly link the farm loan credits to Iraq's intervention with the Palestinians, it provides the clearest evidence to date that the United States wanted something in return for the guarantees. 
 The message was sent to Iraq's Foreign Minister, Tariq Aziz, on Nov. 9, 1989, nine months before Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. A copy of the message was released along with numerous other documents Friday night by the Senate Agriculture Committee, which is investigating reported abuses in the farm credit program.
Some members of Congress have charged that the Iraqis diverted the grain for money and weapons, and that the Bush Administration generally sought to curry favor with President Saddam Hussein before Iraq invaded Kuwait. The question has become an issue in the Presidential election.
The Bush Administration has repeatedly denied that there was any evidence of such a grain diversion and justified its decision to extend the farm credits as a way to try to moderate President Hussein's behavior through economic and political incentives.
The decision to proceed with the farm credits was made despite opposition from the Treasury Department, the Federal Reserve, the Office of Management and Budget and Federal prosecutors in Atlanta who were investigating a multibillion-dollar loan fraud involving the Atlanta branch of an Italian bank and Iraq.
In another document released by the committee, the Federal prosecutor in charge of the bank case wrote in an internal memo last July stating that Iraq had misused the farm program and that the Agriculture Department knew it but chose to ignore it.
The July 16, 1992 memo by the prosecutor, Gail McKenzie, sharply criticizes the Department for ignoring evidence of the abuses in a meeting with other Government agencies held just before the Administration agreed to proceed with the first $500 million of the $1 billion in credits to Iraq.
Mr. Baker's request to the Iraqis for help with the Palestinians partly explains why he became personally involved in lobbying for the farm program. Determined to make progress on his peace plan, Mr. Baker at one point, according to previous press reports, telephoned Agriculture Secretary Clayton K. Yeutter to press the case for the grain credits.
 
Delivered by Ambassador
 In the message to Iraq, which was sent by Mr. Baker for delivery by the United States Ambassador in Baghdad, April C. Glaspie, Mr. Baker said he was "pleased to be able to inform" Mr. Aziz that an Agriculture Department team would soon arrive in Baghdad to negotiate new credits under terms that "we believe will be acceptable to you."
The message, sent a month after Mr. Aziz and Mr. Baker had met in Washington, said the decision on the grain credits "reflects the importance we attach to our relationship with Iraq."
Then Mr. Baker quickly turned to the peace talks. "We are at a critical point in our diplomacy," Mr. Baker said. "The Government of Egypt is working closely with Palestinians to respond positively to our five-point framework, enabling us to get an Israeli-Palestinian dialogue launched. It would be useful if you could weigh in with them and urge them to give a positive response to Egypt's suggestions."
Mr. Baker had broached the subject of Iraqi support for the Egyptian peace plan at his meeting with Mr. Aziz on Oct. 6. But at that meeting, according to the minutes, Mr. Aziz remained noncommittal, telling Mr. Baker, it was "Iraqi policy to refrain from public statements on the peace process."
Ms. McKenzie's memo gives a detailed description of her concerns about the grain program, which she had voiced in a conversation with two senior Agriculture Department officials on Oct. 11, 1989. Other documents indicate that Ms. McKenzie and other members of her team had warned against giving Iraq new credits.
Ms. McKenzie wrote in the memo that she told the two officials that there were strong indications that Iraq was bartering or diverting food bought through the credit program, because the country was buying more food than "could reasonably be consumed in Iraq." She noted that the Agriculture Department's monitoring system traced food shipments only as far as Jordan and Turkey, not as far as Iraq.
At the time of her meeting, Federal prosecutors in Atlanta and other United States Government officials were suspicious that Iraq was diverting either the loan money or the food into weapons purchases, although the allegations have never been proven.
Ms. McKenzie's memo was apparently written as a protective measure to exonerate her and her team of any wrongdoing in their handling of the bank fraud. Ms. McKenzie said in the memo that it was written after she learned that Congress was investigating her briefings to Agriculture Department officials.
 
Iraq Demanded Bribes
 The prosecutors had also uncovered evidence that Iraq had demanded bribes from American exporters participating in the program. In her memo, Ms. McKenzie described how the Iraqis paid inflated prices for goods backed by the American program in order to include kickbacks and freight charges in violation of the program's regulations. Even after the Agriculture Department "advised Iraq to cease such demands for payments," she wrote, the Iraqis continued to demand kickbacks.
Many of the loans guaranteed by the United States grain program were extended by the Atlanta branch of the Banca Nazionale del Lavoro, an Italian bank that Ms. McKenzie's office was investigating. She noted that Iraq was using other loans from the bank to buy militarily useful equipment, including machines useful in both ballistic missile and nuclear wepaons programs.
She also said that the Iraqis "may be" using profits from the bank fraud scheme and from kickbacks in military projects.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (92%); KUWAIT (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); 

COMPANY: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (US); STATE DEPARTMENT; BANCA NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO ; SENATE COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (54%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (US); STATE DEPARTMENT; BANCA NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO ; SENATE COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (54%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAQ UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (92%); KUWAIT (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FOREIGN AID; CREDIT ; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL LENDING (89%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); BANK BRANCHES (63%); 

PERSON: BAKER, JAMES A 3D; MCKENZIE, GAIL; SCIOLINO, ELAINE SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



830 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 2449 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Overview;
CONTEST TIGHTENS AS PEROT RESURGES AND CLINTON SLIPS

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 24

 BODY:
The 1992 Presidential campaign is entering its home stretch with Ross Perot newly energized and Gov. Bill Clinton still in the lead but facing a tightening contest with President Bush, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll.
The new poll, conducted Tuesday through Friday, suggests that Mr. Perot received a considerable boost from his performance in the Presidential debates and his weeks of heavy advertising. It indicates that Mr. Clinton's support has dropped since early October and that Republican attacks on his trustworthiness may be taking a toll. Mr. Bush's support, however, was not growing, according to the poll. 
 The upshot is a tighter race. Among the probable electorate, which reflects the likelihood of each respondent's voting on Nov. 3, Mr. Clinton now has the support of 40 percent, Mr. Bush of 35 percent and Mr. Perot of 15 percent, the poll shows. In early October, before the debates, Mr. Clinton stood at 46 percent, Mr. Bush at 38 percent and Mr. Perot at 7 percent.
 
Elation in Bush Camp
 Bush campaign officials, elated over signs in this and other polls that Mr. Clinton's substantial lead was eroding, predicted that voters were entering a new phase of decision-making that would put a premium on trust. "It's moving our way," said Charles Black, senior adviser to the Bush campaign.
But Clinton strategists disputed the Times/CBS poll, noting that other independent surveys, while showing a closer race, did not show the gap as small as five percentage points. "I never question somebody's polls," said James Carville, senior strategist for Clinton. "But this is the first private or public poll with a margin like this."
Mr. Carville added: "The race is going to tighten. I don't think there's any question about that. I just think we've got to work hard coming down the stretch."
 
Election Seen as Over
 A Washington Post poll published today showed an eight-point Clinton lead, while the Time Magazine/CNN poll released this weekend showed a seven-point gap. The Times/CBS poll, based on interviews with 1,854 adults nationwide, has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points, which means that statistically it is in the range of the other polls.
But as the national polls tighten, Mr. Clinton retains strong leads in some of the biggest states and thus a commanding hold on the electoral map, which Republicans acknowledge will be very hard to break.
The registered voters seem to be operating under the assumption that the election is over, with 6 in 10 expecting a Clinton victory on Election Day, according to the Times/CBS poll. To some analysts, this suggests that some recent supporters of Mr. Perot may be exercising a "free vote," sending a message by backing him because they feel that neither Mr. Bush nor Mr. Clinton need their vote.
Geoffrey Garin, a Democratic poll taker, argued, "Once there was this sense of inevitability associated with Clinton's election, voters could start to be for Perot without any sense of risk to it. You could be for Perot without having to worry about electing a President, or without having to worry about electing George Bush President."
Still, Mr. Perot has undergone a remarkable image-building since he re-entered the race. Twenty-nine percent now say they view Mr. Perot favorably, while 32 percent see him unfavorably. In early October, only 7 percent viewed him favorably, while 59 percent held unfavorable views.
 
Debates Aid Perot
 The debates were a clear lift to Mr. Perot, many analysts said, operating as a kind of mini-convention re-introducing him to the American electorate. Thirty-nine percent said Mr. Clinton won the three Presidential debates, but 31 percent said Mr. Perot did. Only 15 percent said Mr. Bush won.
Mr. Bush, for his part, continues to have many vulnerabilities. His job approval rating stands at 40 percent among all adults, and 77 percent continued to rate the economy as bad or very bad, findings that showed little change during the fall campaign. But his favorability ratings improved slightly among registered voters this month, now standing at 35 percent favorable, 45 percent unfavorable.
Mr. Clinton was acquiring a more negative image, reflecting Republican attempts to raise doubts about his character and suitability as a potential President: 33 percent now view him favorably, 39 percent unfavorably. And the proportion who say he is not telling the truth about the draft is rising.
Mr. Bush retains and has even enlarged his advantage in being seen as able to "handle all the problems a President has to deal with," a major theme of his campaign. But Mr. Clinton retains strong advantages in other areas, such as "caring about the needs and problems of people like you," which 65 percent said he did, while 48 percent said Mr. Bush did.
Still, the most intriguing variable in this race, nine days before the election, is Mr. Perot. Both campaigns are paying less attention to Mr. Perot's standing nationally than to his impact in specific states. He is considered a help to the Democrats in the South and a problem for them in the industrial Midwest.
Stan Greenberg, the poll taker for Mr. Clinton, said that while Mr. Perot may be "taking a little more from us nationally," he may actually be helping the Democrats in the Electoral College. Mr. Greenberg argued that Mr. Clinton's leads in the states where Mr. Perot was dipping into the Democrat's support were big enough to withstand it.
Republicans acknowledge their daunting challenge in assembling a majority in the Electoral College, given Mr. Clinton's present strength. "Sure he's got a big advantage there," said Bob Teeter, chairman of the Bush campaign. "We've got to have a lot of things change." But they were clearly heartened by signs of movement in the national polls.
The latest Times/CBS poll showed an unusually close race between Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton in the Northeast, in opposition to a round of recent state polls that showed solid margins for the Democrat. When the results were re-calculated to reflect the relationship of the Northeast to the rest of the country in typical polls this fall, Mr. Clinton's national lead rose to six from five percentage points.
Totally separate from The New York Times/CBS News Poll, The Times interviewed political professionals and analysts across the country this week for their assessments of the race. What follows is a regional perspective, based on their impressions.
 
The South
Democrats Gain By Being Neighbors
 The political scientist V. O. Key Jr. wrote about the "friends and neighbors" factor in Southern politics, the predilection to vote for the hometown ticket. This campaign has proven that theory to be alive and well. Not since the last friend-and-neighbor Democratic nominee in 1976 has the South been so competitive.
Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore have offered themselves as "different" Democrats, culturally and ideologically in tune with their native South, largely defusing such reliable Republican campaign points as the death penalty (which Mr. Clinton supports, a fact noted in his television advertising). Coupled with the ailing economy, this helps explain why Mr. Bush is still campaigning hard in a region he once considered his "firewall."
Mr. Bush is considered strongest in Mississippi, South Carolina and Alabama, but he is still scrambling in the biggest states, North Carolina, Georgia, Florida and Texas. Florida is a striking example of Mr. Bush's vulnerability: a state that he carried with 61 percent of the vote in 1988 is now widely considered too close to call.
Texas, Mr. Bush's adopted state, is still very uncertain too, with Mr. Perot a major factor. A new poll by The Houston Chronicle, released today, showed Mr. Clinton in the lead, with 39 percent of the vote, followed by Mr. Bush with 31 percent and Mr. Perot with 15 percent. The poll had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points
 
The Midwest
Clinton Is Trying To Hold Lead
 The Midwest is the traditional battleground in competitive Presidential campaigns, the home of the Reagan Democrats. Fueled by the ailing economy, Mr. Clinton built a formidable lead in this region in the two months after the Democratic convention. Now, his challenge is to hold onto it, against Mr. Bush and a newly energized Mr. Perot.
Illinois, with its 22 electoral votes, has become a Clinton stronghold, with the Democratic nominee holding consistent double-digit leads in polls throughout the fall. But Michigan, with 18 electoral votes, is considered to be more competitive, a state where Democrats will have to watch closely for Mr. Perot's impact. This region shows the quirkiness of Mr. Perot's political impact. While he seems to work to the advantage of the Democrats in the South, he is a worry to them here.
A poll of Michigan for The Detroit Free Press and WXYZ-TV, conducted on Tuesday and Wednesday showed Mr. Perot cutting Mr. Clinton's lead in half. Mr. Clinton had the support of 41 percent of the voters, Mr. Bush of 31 percent and Mr. Perot of 19 percent. Before the debates, Mr. Clinton led by nearly 20 percentage points. The latest poll had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points.
Analysts in Ohio also report a bump for Mr. Perot, although Mr. Clinton continued to lead. The Democrats seem confident of Missouri, but Wisconsin remains competitive. "Clinton's ahead, but his lead is marginal," asserted Brian Christenson, political director of the Republican Party in Wisconsin. Jonathan Sender, executive director of the Democratic Party in Wisconsin, agreed that despite Mr. Clinton's lead, "this is a very competitive battleground state."
 
The West
California Becomes Clinton Stronghold
 The Pacific West has become an anchor for the Democrats. Mr. Clinton acquired a big lead in California after Mr. Perot withdrew from the race in July and held onto it throughout the fall. Clinton strategists say they believe their candidate is strong enough in the state -- which alone provides one-fifth of the 270 electoral votes necessary to win -- to withstand a boomlet for Mr. Perot.
Economic concerns are particularly strong in California, where the unemployment rate was 9.4 percent in September, and Mr. Bush has felt the full measure of the voters' discontent, with his disapproval ratings here being among the highest in the country. Democrats are also counting on an increase in voter registration to help them.
The Rocky Mountain West is far more complicated. Mr. Clinton has done some hard campaigning in this region, once reliable for the Republicans. The Bush camp is hoping that most of these states will return to the fold as the election nears. But the post-debate gain by Mr. Perot may be coming with a vengeance here and complicating their task.
Mr. Perot had some of his strongest support in the Mountain West before July, and a new poll for the Denver Post suggests that much of it is returning.
The poll for The Denver Post and KCNC-TV in Denver, conducted among 400 registered voters the evenings of Oct. 20 through Oct. 23, showed Mr. Clinton at 37 percent, Mr. Bush at 28 percent and Mr. Perot at 25 percent. The poll had a sampling error of plus or minus 4.9 percentage points.
 
The East
Democrats Look To 1964 Landslide

New York, with its 33 electoral votes, is widely considered to be solid for Mr. Clinton. Democrats, hoping for a repeat of the tidal wave for Lyndon B. Johnson in 1964, say they are guarding against complacency with a vast get-out-the-vote drive following major gains in registration earlier this year.
To that, the Clinton campaign is hoping to add a victory in Pennsylvania, with 23 electoral votes, and an unusually strong showing in New England. But a poll in Friday's Hartford Courant showed a jump in support for Mr. Perot and suggested a narrowing lead for Mr. Clinton. Republicans there said they now believed that Mr. Bush could win the state, although the chairman of the Democratic Party, Edward L. Marcus, said he still expected a double-digit win for Mr. Clinton.
New Jersey, which has not voted Democratic in a Presidential race since 1964, has become a major battleground as one of the belt of industrial states that the Bush forces consider critical. Mr. Bush campaigned hard there this week, declaring: "Something is happening. We're moving up on this guy."
A new poll conducted by the Eagleton Institute, to be published Sunday in The Star-Ledger of Newark, showed Mr. Clinton at 44 percent, Mr. Bush at 31 percent, and Mr. Perot at 17 percent of the likely voters. But the poll, which had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3.5 percentage points, also showed Mr. Perot cutting into Mr. Clinton's lead as the week went on.
 
 
 
HOW THE POLL WAS CONDUCTED
 The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Tuesday through Friday with 1,854 adults around the United States, excluding Alaska and Hawaii, of whom 1,467 said they were registered voters.
The sample of telephone exchanges called was selected by a computer from a complete list of exchanges in the country. The exchanges were chosen to assure that each region of the country was represented in proportion to its population. For each exchange, the telephone numbers were formed by random digits, thus providing access to both listed and unlisted numbers. In each household one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the poll.
The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into the residence and to adjust for variations in the sample relating to region, race, sex, age and education.
Some findings related to voting are reported in terms of an overall "probable electorate," which uses responses to questions dealing with voter registration, past voting history and the likelihood of voting in 1992 as a measure of the probability of particular respondents' voting in November.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20 the results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all adults in the country.
The potential sampling error for smaller subgroups is larger. For example, for results based on registered black voters, it is plus or minus ten percentage points.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Differences in the wording and order of questions, for instance, can lead to somewhat varying results.

GRAPHIC: Photos: George Bush; Bill Clinton; Ross Perot. (pg. 1)
 
Graph tracks favorable and unfavorable opinions of George Bush, Bill Clinton and Ross Perot, March 1991-Oct. 1992 (Source: The New York Times/CBS News Poll) (pg. 1); "The Race Narrows," tracks whom voters would vote for, April-Oct. 24, 1992 (Source: The New York Times/CBS News Poll) (pg. 24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL CBS CORP (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PUBLIC OPINION POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); STATISTICS (88%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); STATISTICAL METHOD (73%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (72%); 

PERSON: PEROT, ROSS; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); TONER, ROBIN BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



831 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1440 words

HEADLINE: Blacks Say G.O.P. Ballot Challenges Are Tactic to Harass Minority Voters

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HELENA, Ark.

 BODY:
A two-year Federal investigation that will culminate in a trial on the eve of Election Day is likely to have greater impact on voter turnout in this small Mississippi River delta town than the Presidential debates or any last-minute blitzes of campaign advertising.
The case involves accusations that several black candidates and their campaign workers forged signatures and falsified absentee ballots in the 1990 elections. But black politicians find both the timing and the charges suspicious, and they maintain that local Republican officials pushed for the investigation and subsequent indictments hoping to discourage blacks from participating in politics. 
 Democrats and some experts on minority voting say that local ballot challenges like these appear to be emerging as a nationwide Republican strategy of harassing minority voters.
 
Teacher's Aide Indicted
 The 1990 elections saw greatly increased levels of minority voter participation here, in large part because a Federal court had recently settled a Voting Rights Act lawsuit by creating 10 black-majority state legislative districts.
Among those charged by Federal prosecutors is Brenda Sue Steele, a 26-year-old political novice and teacher's aide in the local school district who worked as a campaign volunteer for her cousin, a candidate for the State Legislature.
Ms. Steele and another volunteer, Regener Levon Boards, have pleaded not guilty to six counts of forgery and conspiracy. If convicted, each faces up to 10 years in prison.
Their trial, scheduled to begin Nov. 2, will be the second in three months involving alleged voter fraud in this city of 6,000 residents. In a mixed verdict last month, two other black Helena residents were acquitted of 18 counts of vote fraud but were found guilty of conspiring to commit vote fraud.
 
Widespread Interrogations
 Both cases have touched many lives in this small community. Dozens of people have been interrogated over the last year by Federal Bureau of Investigation agents, and many black leaders fear that all the questioning has had a chilling effect on poor, often illiterate black voters.
"We had people who refused to sign petitions for black candidates to get on the ballot this time around because of these charges from two years ago," said Linda Whitfield, who worked with black candidates in 1990 and is running for circuit court clerk this year. "They have the impression that we led them to do something illegal, and that's going to hurt turnout."
Ms. Whitfield and others assert that a chilling effect was precisely what Arkansas Republicans had in mind when they pushed for the investigations and for prosecutions by the United States Justice Department after state prosecutors and the United States Attorney for Eastern Arkansas had found insufficient evidence to prosecute.
 
Aura of Criminality
 State Representative Jimmie Wilson, who is black, said the indictments had unfairly cloaked legitimate political activism, especially efforts to promote absentee voting, in an aura of criminality.
The Arkansas prosecutions and the suspicions voiced by local black organizations here echo cases in Alabama, Louisiana, New Jersey, North Carolina and Texas in which Republican Party officials challenged ballots and voter drives between 1982 and 1992, almost always in areas with large minority populations.
In New Jersey and North Carolina, Democrats counterattacked in court, obtaining consent decrees in which judges admonished the Republicans to refrain from ballot challenges "where the racial or ethnic composition of such districts is a factor."
Dean St. Dennis, a spokesman for the the Public Integrity Section of the Justice Department, which is prosecuting the cases here, denied any political or racial motivation. Most of the prosecution witnesses are black voters who contend that they were defrauded of their ballots, Mr. St. Dennis said. He also noted that among those indicted were workers for a Republican candidate. That candidate, however, was Ms. Steele's cousin, Arnell Willis, a maverick black candidate who had neither the support nor the endorsement of the Republican party.
 
More Candidates, More Scrutiny
 Dayna Cunningham, a lawyer with the NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund, said that in many ways the 1990 elections from which the charges arose marked the beginning of a change in the electoral problems that had plagued rural Eastern Arkansas.
The Federal court's creation of 10 new black-majority state legislative districts buoyed blacks in the city, which is nearly 70 percent black, and in surrounding Phillips County, which is 55 percent black. Republicans and Democrats alike set out to sign up black absentee voters, in many cases using tactics that were legal and that had proved successful with white voters in the past.
Groups of volunteers first identified likely absentee voters, then solicited their support and helped them request absentee ballots. In many cases they had the voters request that their ballots be sent to a central location where campaign workers received them.
The campaign workers delivered the ballots to the absentee voters, made sure the forms accompanying the sealed ballot were properly dated and signed, then delivered the ballots to the county clerk.
Under Arkansas law, all these practices are legal. In the 1990 race they were employed by Helena's white and black candidates alike, resulting in 1,436 absentee ballot requests, nearly double the usual number among Phillips County's nearly 15,000 registered voters.
Ms. Whitfield's group collected 307 absentee ballots, while Ms. Steele's group collected about 60. But the indictments accuse Ms. Steele and Mr. Boards of forging voter signatures and illegally casting ballots.
Mr. St. Dennis said the case had come to the unit's attention after F.B.I. agents in Little Rock passed on news reports of complaints about alleged absentee ballot fraud.
Asa Hutchinson, chairman of the Arkansas Republican Party, acknowledged that many of the complaints had come from state Republican officials who had sent poll watchers into Helena in response to concerns from local Republicans. Mr. St. Dennis said that by the time the case went to trial in September, the investigation had produced 16 witnesses who said they had been defrauded of their absentee votes. Fifteen were black.
"I had no reason to request an absentee ballot, and I went to the polls that day to vote," said said one of the witnesses, 32-year-old Alberta Robinson, who was allowed to vote even though the records indicated that she had requested an absentee ballot. "My name was just forged on all of that. That's all I know."
Defense lawyers do not dispute those and similar claims by other witnesses, but they maintain that their clients were not the ones who committed the fraud.
Many elderly Helena residents said they had benefited from absentee voter drives.
 
Emerging Tactic Nationwide
 For example, 83-year-old Irene Jackson, who suffers from arthritis and high blood pressure and is confined to her home, said that when the volunteers arrive, "I just do what I'm supposed to do, and if there is someone I really want to vote for, I mark it."
"If I don't know about a candidate I ask them questions," she went on. "And I usually ask them who they like, and they tell me. But they always say vote for whoever you want to, and they don't pressure me at all."
Whatever the merits of the charges, it is clear that Republicans have adopted a tactic of alleging vote fraud in black areas, on the presumption that high minority voter turnout will overwhelmingly benefit Democrats, said David Bositis, a senior researcher with the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, a Washington-based research center that specializes in black political issues.
"The Republicans have a tremendous incentive to go after cases in these areas and in areas like the one in Arkansas," Mr. Bositis said. "There is no down side for them, because they don't anger their potential supporters if they win a conviction. And they have the effect of depressing turnout even if there isn't a conviction."
Those sentiments were echoed by Mary Lee Orr, who is white and the chairman of the local Democratic Party in Longview, Tex., where scores of black residents were interrogated by the F.B.I. after Republican ballot challenges in 1990.
Although no indictments resulted, she said, "Black voter turnout was way down in the primaries last spring, and many black people told us that they wouldn't ever vote again because they didn't want to be harassed like they were in 1990."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brenda Sue Steele, who is among campaign workers charged by Federal prosecutors with forging signatures and falsifying absentee ballots in the 1990 elections. Ms. Steele has pleaded not guilty to six counts of forgery and conspiracy. If convicted she faces up to 10 years in prison. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)
 
Map of Arkansas, indicating Helena.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (92%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ARKANSAS; HELENA (ARK) UNITED STATES (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (92%); 

SUBJECT: TRIALS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; ABSENTEE VOTING; FORGERY; BLACKS (IN US); MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); LEGISLATURES; ELECTIONS VOTERS & VOTING (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PARAEDUCATORS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); COUNTERFEITING (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); VERDICTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTION FRAUD (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); CONSPIRACY (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); BALLOTS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); EVIDENCE (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); PETITIONS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); ACQUITTAL (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (76%); LAWYERS (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (68%); 

PERSON: ;SMOTHERS, RONALD BRENDA SUE STEELE (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



832 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1943 words

HEADLINE: Pentagon Objected to Bush's Message to Iraq

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 24

 BODY:
Days before the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, senior Pentagon officials sought to block a message from President Bush to Saddam Hussein they feared was so weakly worded that it would send a signal that the United States was not determined to stand up to Iraqi aggression.
The previously undisclosed dispute in late July 1990 within the Bush Administration about how to deal with the Iraqi leader occurred as Mr. Hussein's troops massed on the Kuwaiti border. 
 Although the Pentagon's effort to draft a sterner message did not succeed, senior Administration officials later became concerned that their diplomacy had not worked and on the eve of the invasion discussed sending a second, stronger Presidential statement to President Hussein. Before they could so do, Iraq had launched its attack on Aug. 2.
The disclosures bear on the election-year debate over whether the Bush Administration did all it could to deter the Iraqis from invading Kuwait.
The Administration's policy toward Iraq had been based on a directive issued by President Bush in October 1989, to use economic and political incentives to moderate Mr. Hussein's behavior. The extent of the Administration's conciliatory approach emerged only after the war, leading to accusations that the war might have been avoided had Mr. Bush pursued a tougher approach.
Mr. Bush, who has portrayed himself as the candidate best capable of dealing with international crises, has vigorously defended his diplomacy, saying that his aim was to "bring Saddam Hussein into the family of nations.
But a reconstruction of events in the weeks leading up to Iraq's invasion, based on interviews with former and current administration officials, shows that some senior Administration officials had grave reservations at the time about the White House's diplomatic efforts, believing they failed to take seriously Mr. Hussein's threats and to respond effectively.
"We were already seeing troops moving," said Henry S. Rowen, who was then Assistant Defense Secretary for International Security Affairs. "We were getting worried, and we were putting up this piece of pap. It was just very weak. We should have been much more threatening."
Mr. Rowen is now a professor at the Stanford University Graduate School of Business and a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution.
Bluntly describing American diplomacy toward Baghdad as "a substantial policy and intelligence failure," Mr. Rowen, a Republican, said in an interview that Iraq's invasion of Kuwait might have been averted had Washington taken a tougher line.
 
Assuring Messages And 'Reservations'
 A senior White House official disputed Mr. Rowen's analysis, arguing that Mr. Bush's message followed Iraqi statements that Baghdad was interested in negotiating a settlement of its disputes with the Kuwaitis. The official said the communication was consistent with advice that Washington was receiving from its Arab allies.
"We were being told by Mubarak and by King Hussein, 'Hey, don't worry about it,' " the senior White House official said, referring to President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt and King Hussein of Jordan. He said they advised that "it is a tempest in a teapot, that all Saddam was trying to do was achieve leadership in the Arab world."
But senior Pentagon officials, including Paul D. Wolfowitz, Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, reportedly shared Mr. Rowen's concerns. Mr. Rowen instructed Arthur G. Hughes, Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Near East and South Asian Affairs, to request that the transmittal of the Presidential message be delayed so that the Pentagon could propose a sterner warning, Mr. Rowen said.
Mr. Hughes made the request to a senior aide to John H. Kelly, Assistant Secretary of State for Near East Affairs. The Pentagon believed that it blocked the message, Mr. Rowen said. But the next day, Pentagon officials were informed by the White House that the original message had been sent.
A spokesman for the State Department confirmed that Defense Department officials expressed "reservations" about the Presidential communication to the State Department's Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs. But heasserted that "by the time we learned of their views it was too late."
 
Iraq's Buildup And U.S. Response
 Leading up to Mr. Bush's message was increasingly bellicose behavior by Iraq, which crossed a new threshold in mid-July 1990 with a letter from Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz to the Arab League. The letter asserted that Kuwait's refusal to yield on disputes over the border, oil production and pricing policy and Iraq's multibillion-dollar debt to Kuwait, was tantamount to military aggression. On July 17, Mr. Hussein warned in a speech that Baghdad was prepared to use military force to attain its objectives.
The first American complaint about Iraqi threats came not from the President or the Secretary of State, but from a mid-level State Department official, David Mack, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern Affairs. He used a regularly scheduled luncheon with Iraq's Ambassador to Washington to express American concern.
Later that day, Mr. Mack drafted a cable for Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d to send to American embassies in the Middle East, recounting the exchange. The cable, transmitted that day, instructed American diplomats in Baghdad to press for a clarification of Iraq's intentions toward Kuwait.
During that period, American intelligence noted that Iraqi troops were taking up positions near the Kuwaiti border and that the buildup was continuing. Despite Baghdad's threats, only the United Arab Emirates, which Iraq had also threatened because it was exceeding OPEC's oil-production quotas, asked for American assistance: the dispatch of two American KC-135 refueling planes. No additional military steps were taken.
 
Glaspie and Hussein: Gauging Intentions
 As the Administration's concerns grew, Mr. Baker sent a July 24 cable instructing April C. Glaspie, the American Ambassador in Baghdad, and American ambassadors in other Arab capitals, to reiterate the Bush Administration's views.
Mr. Baker's cable said, "While we take no position on the border delineation raised by Iraq with respect to Kuwait, or on other bilateral disputes, Iraqi statements suggest an intention to resolve outstanding disagreements by the use of force, an approach which is contrary to U.N. charter principles."
After conveying that message to Iraqi officials, Ms. Glaspie was summoned to an impromptu noon meeting on July 25 with Saddam Hussein. According to her diplomatic cables on the meeting, which has been characterized in published accounts but not declassified, Ms. Glaspie said in reference to the Iraqi troops on Kuwait's border: "Is it not reasonable for us to ask, in the spirit of friendship, not confrontation, the simple question: What are your intentions?"
The Iraqi leader said it was a reasonable question but complained that Iraq was in such difficult financial condition that pensions for widows and orphans would have to be cut. He also told her that he had agreed to negotiate with the Kuwaitis on their disputes.
After the meeting, Ms. Glaspie cabled that the Iraqi leader had said "some circles of the U.S.G. continue to work to undermine his Government and his policies" but described Mr. Baker and Mr. Bush as "fine and honorable men," then asked Ms. Glaspie to explain Iraq's concerns to the President, she related in her cable.
Then, Ms. Glaspie wrote: "Saddam, who in the memory of the current diplomatic corps, has never summoned an ambassador, is worried. He does not want to further antagonize us. With the U.A.E. maneuvers, we have fully caught his attention, and that is good. I believe we would now be well-advised to ease off on public criticism of Iraq until we see how the negotiations develop."
 
Split in Washington On Message's Tone
 Mr. Bush's message was drafted in response to Mr. Hussein's statements. Middle East specialists at the National Security Council and State Department were primarily responsible for drafting the message, which was to be sent in Mr. Bush's name. But there were disagreements among the council staff, State Department officials and Defense Department officials.
The National Security Council and State specialists on the Middle East gave credence to Iraq's statements that it was interested in negotiating a resolution of its differences with Kuwait. Further, officials were making the assumption that the Arab states in the region who were playing down the Iraqi threat were in a better position to discern Iraq's intentions.
"For the first time, Saddam was showing a little bit of conciliation," said Sandra Charles, a National Security Council specialist on the Middle East, who is now a private consultant. "You do not go back and say: 'We will believe that when we see it. You better negotiate or we will blow you off the face of the earth.' "
But civilian Pentagon officials favored taking a harder line. They thought Ms. Glaspie had come off weak in her meeting with Mr. Hussein.
"We objected to the language," Mr. Rowen said.
The Presidential response that was drafted was only three paragraphs long. It read:
"I was pleased to learn of the agreement between Iraq and Kuwait to begin negotiations in Jedda to find a peaceful solution to the current tensions between you. The United States and Iraq both have a strong interest in preserving the peace and stability of the Middle East. For this reason, we believe that differences are best resolved by peaceful means and not by threats involving military force or conflict.
"I also welcome your statement that Iraq desires friendship, rather than confrontation with the United States. Let me reassure you, as my Ambassador, Senator Dole and others have done, that my Administration continues to desire better relations with Iraq. We will also continue to support our other friends in the region with whom we have had longstanding ties. We see no necessary inconsistency between these two objectives.
"As you know, we still have fundamental concerns about certain Iraqi policies and activities, and we will continue to raise these concerns with you in a spirit of friendship and candor, as we have in the past both to gain a better understanding of your interests and intentions and to ensure that you understand our concerns. I completely agree that both our Governments must maintain open channels of communication to avoid misunderstanding and in order to build a more durable foundation for improving our relations."
Then Deputy Secretary of State Lawrence S. Eagleburger, who was overseeing the State Department while Mr. Baker was in the Soviet Union, instructed Ms. Glaspie in a cable to deliver the message orally before she departed Iraq for consultations and then home leave on July 30. If that could not be done, she was to deliver its main points in a "non-paper," a unofficial diplomatic communication.
On Aug. 1, 1990, Robert M. Kimmitt, Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs, convened a meeting of top officials. The officials were nervous. The Iraqis had broken off negotiation with the Kuwaitis in Jedda. The Iraqi buildup had continued and exceeded 100,000 troops, far more than Iraq would need for mere intimidation.
The officials recommended that a second, stronger Presidential message be considered. Richard N. Haass, the top Middle East deputy on the National Security Council, was to meet with Brent Scowcroft, the national security adviser, to discuss its contents.
But before that could be done, the officials learned that Iraqi forces had invaded Kuwait.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The disclosure of a dispute within the Bush Administration in late July 1990 about how to deal with Saddam Hussein is calling into question whether the Administration did all it could to deter the Iraqis from invading Kuwait. The debate surrounds a meeting between April C. Glaspie, the American Ambassador in Baghdad with Mr. Hussein on July 25, 1990. The two met earlier in Baghdad. (ABC News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (99%); KUWAIT (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (91%); WHITE HOUSE (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (91%); WHITE HOUSE (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; KUWAIT; IRAQ UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (99%); KUWAIT (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); 

PERSON: GLASPIE, APRIL C; ROWEN, HENRY S; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORDON, MICHAEL R SADDAM HUSSEIN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



833 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Republicans;
Bush Attacks News Media, And Crowds Cheer Him On

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LAFAYETTE, La., Oct. 24

 BODY:
President Bush regaled crowds in two states today with his standard attacks on Bill Clinton's credibility and tax proposals, but the day's best red-meat lines had nothing to do with the Arkansas governor. What roused the crowds -- what rouses many Bush crowds lately -- were Presidential jabs at the press.
"Annoy the media," Mr. Bush cried with evident delight at a Montgomery, Ala., rally this morning that drew 10,000. He had spotted a banner sporting that slogan with the tag line "Re-elect Bush," prompting him to add, "They wouldn't know good news if it hit them in the face." 
 Later, at a rally of 1,700 backers in a high-school gym here, Mr. Bush did not hesitate when a young journalism student asked him for advice. "Be objective," he shot back.
Both remarks drew roars of approval, as have similar barbs in recent Bush speeches. But as his effort to overtake Mr. Clinton nears its final week, they have become more than just applause lines.
With some opinion polls now suggesting that Mr. Bush's attacks are shaking voter confidence in Mr. Clinton, the campaign is tackling an even tougher task: telling voters why they should back Mr. Bush instead.
 
Getting Message Past Media
 The White House argues that the news media are not allowing that argument to reach the public, and Mr. Bush added a new paragraph to his stump speech today to make that point.
"Have you heard this on television at night?" he asked at the Montgomery rally. "That unemployment claims have gone down to the lowest in two years? Have you heard that inflation is down, that interest rates are down, that total employment is 93 percent, inflation 2.5 to 3 percent, home mortgages are 8 percent?"
After the speech, Torie Clarke, the campaign spokeswoman, said: "We have to spend a lot of time from now on on the goals and objectives of a second term. Here are the No. 1 issues: jobs and the economy. Here's what George Bush would do; here's what Bill Clinton would do; you make the choice."
That argument is coupled with two new commercials that began appearing on television this week. The advertisements tout Mr. Bush's second-term economic agenda, his record on life-and-death issues of war and peace, and the value of experience in a President.
 
Ads Follow Attacks
 The ads follow weeks of televised attacks on Mr. Clinton's economic proposals and his trustworthiness. The campaign has not pressed the case for Mr. Bush's foreign accomplishments, the highlight of his first term, since the primaries last spring.
These days, Mr. Bush often closes his speech with a reminder that the cold war ended on his watch and a vow that he will spend a second term pressing for the same kinds of earth-shaking changes at home.
"People say, 'Well, why do you want to do this?' " he said today in Montgomery. " 'It's ugly out there. You're getting clobbered by the national media over and over again. Can't be any fun.' The answer is, something transcends your own personal well-being. And what transcends it for me is, we have literally changed the world."
Now, he added, "What I want to do through the programs I've touched on today is make life better and more challenging by creating more opportunity, in employment and education, for every young person here today."
 
Signs Energy Bill
 Later, in the southwest Louisiana hamlet of Maurice, Mr. Bush visited a gas drilling rig to sign energy-policy legislation that aides said would create 45,000 new jobs in 1993 alone.
The President briefly shelved the campaign rhetoric to praise two Democrats, Senator J. Bennett Johnston of Louisiana and Representative John D. Dingell of Michigan, for their work on the bill.
"It's not a Republican accomplishment or a Democratic accomplishment; it's an accomplishment for all America," Mr. Bush said, adding of Senator Johnston: "I wish the guy would see the light on the rest of the things."
The energy bill is a grab bag of incentives to explore for oil and gas, conserve energy and promote alternative power sources like methane and wind. But potentially the most sweeping measure, Bush aides said, would overhaul utility laws to force competition in the generating and selling of power.
That clause should cut the cost of electricity by $250 billion in the next 15 years, or about $750 per household, the White House said. A second important clause revises tax laws to encourage drilling for oil and gas, increasing production by the equivalent of 50,000 barrels of oil a day by 2000.
 
On the Offensive
 In recent days, as more television and print accounts have publicly suggested that Mr. Bush has little hope of staging a comeback, Ms. Clarke and other Bush aides have begun to take the offense, arguing against accepting the conventional wisdom and sometimes bluntly criticizing news accounts they believe are erroneous or biased.
Even the President's wife, Barbara, pressed the point in a Friday night appearance on the CNN program "Larry King Live." The news media, she said have "knocked us for a year."
"The day after the convention," she said, "The New York Times had -- 7 out of the 10 stories were negative about George. I mean, the day -- I find that hard to believe."
Today, Ms. Clarke said that a new CBS-New York Times poll, which shows that the gap between Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton has narrowed to about 5 percentage points, reflects the campaign's own conviction that the race is getting closer.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A couple held hands last night as they listened to President Bush answer a question in Lafayette, La. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOUISIANA; ARKANSAS UNITED STATES (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; TAXATION US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (68%); INTEREST RATES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); WINES, MICHAEL GEORGE W BUSH (93%); BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



834 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Political Memo;
For TV, Perot Spends Heavily on Wart Removal

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DALLAS, Oct. 24

 BODY:
The top-of-the-line makeover at the Neiman Marcus beauty salon in Dallas does not come cheap -- $200 for the full treatment, including haircut, facial, manicure and massage.
But that is loose change compared with the nearly $1.1 million that Ross Perot has spent in the last week to make over his political image. While remaining out of sight since Monday night's final debate, Mr. Perot has focused his television advertising campaign not on the economic issues he maintains are so vital but on a careful portrayal of his character and life story. 
 In the second round of his blitz of half-hour television appearances, Mr. Perot has thrown away his charts and graphs. Viewers have instead seen the aw-shucks billionaire providing sentimental reminiscences of his childhood and his heroics. As in most autobiographies, there are some omissions, including the accounts of investigations and autocratic business dealings that so angered Mr. Perot in the first phase of his campaign.
"What I am and what I'm being portrayed as is two different things," Mr. Perot said on the "Today" program on NBC several weeks ago. "I'll put my character up against anybody's if anybody will ever take an honest look at it."
 
Friendly Interviewing
 Because he apparently believes nobody will do so, Mr. Perot paid the networks more than $1 million to broadcast four half-hour programs about himself in the last eight days. The first two consisted of the kind of interview candidates dream of: one conducted by his own media consultant. On Friday night, members of Mr. Perot's family provided 30 minutes worth of testimonials. In tonight's installment, on CBS before the World Series, viewers saw "The Ross Perot Nobody Knows," a compilation of Mr. Perot's once anonymous acts of charity for soldiers from the Persian Gulf war, Dallas police officers, neighbors and employees.
Mr. Perot has spent another $940,000 for an hour on ABC on Monday night, but aides have not said how it will be used. He spent a stunning total of $23.6 million on advertising in the first two weeks of October and has said he will spend $60 million of his own money on his campaign. He may well spend more.
Mr. Perot's televised autobiography, which dwells heavily on his attendance at the United States Naval Academy and his service in the Navy, omitted any mention of his efforts to cut short his military service. While he spoke at length about the familial "three musketeers" spirit he engendered at his computer company, the Electronic Data Systems Corporation, he did not discuss the company's policy against facial hair and its preference for married employees.
He did not address the heavy use of lobbying and hardball political tactics to win the government contracts that made the company a success. Nor did he mention his history of hiring private detectives to investigate business rivals, political figures and his own campaign volunteers.
 
Wall Street Left Out
 While Mr. Perot talked at length about the formation of E.D.S., he neglected to describe the end of his association with the company after it had been acquired by General Motors. Unable to influence the operation of the automobile giant to his satisfaction, Mr. Perot sold his shares for $700 million and walked away.
He also did not discuss his failed foray into Wall Street when a brokerage house he took over went bust.
If there is a recurring theme running through Mr. Perot's self-portrayals, it is the depiction of a self-effacing man who is unaffected by his vast wealth. Scattered throughout Friday night's segment were anecdotes about the 25-cent allowances given to his children and the Saturdays he spent mowing the lawn.
"To us it was a very normal American household," Mr. Perot's son, Ross Perot Jr., said.
For all of Mr. Perot's assertions that what separates him from President Bush and Gov. Bill Clinton is his willingness to deal forthrightly with the country's problems, his economic proposals have received little mention in the advertising barrage.
Thus far, Mr. Perot has used only one of his seven purchases of large segments of television time to prescribe the bitter medicine he says is needed to reduce the Federal budget deficit. His plan includes tax increases on gasoline, reductions in an array of usually sacrosanct benefit programs, and across-the-board cuts in Government spending.
 
Usual Campaigning
 Those proposals also are not mentioned in the 60-second advertisements Mr. Perot has produced. Accompanied by images of rolling storm clouds or a pulsing electrocardiogram, these commercials create a sense of urgency about problems that Washington has ignored. But they do not deal with Mr. Perot's proposed solutions, arguing only that "it's time for a candidate who will get down to business."
His aides said today that they did not know whether Mr. Perot would speak in detail about his economic policies when he finally leaves the television studio to campaign on Sunday in Flemington, N.J., and Pittsburgh. He is scheduled to speak at the Flemington Fairgrounds at 1:30 P.M. and at Pittsburgh's David Lawrence Convention Center at 4:30 P.M. Other than rallies and news conferences after the three Presidential debates, the Sunday appearances will be Mr. Perot's first public events since he re-entered the race on Oct. 1.
To some observers, the Perot advertising strategy reinforces a view that he rejoined the race largely to rehabilitate his image. In the first phase of his campaign, Mr. Perot's reputation as a crafty businessman and can-do patriot was transformed in a few months. News reports began portraying a darker force and finally, at the end, Newsweek on its cover labeled him "The Quitter."
"It confirms the view of some people that this guy is on the biggest ego trip since Geraldo Rivera opened up Al Capone's vault," said Darrell West, a Brown University political scientist who studies campaign advertising. "It's all him. When he's asked about the issues, he waves a copy of his book and says, 'Buy this.' "
 
Controlling Message
 But other political scientists said the strategy shows that the man who prides himself on his unconventional candidacy understands the conventions of politics quite well. Few successful candidates, after all, publicize positions that might cost them votes, like raising gasoline taxes by 50 cents a gallon over five years.
By controlling his message and limiting his access to the media, the experts said, Mr. Perot has eliminated the potential for gaffes like his earlier reference to a meeting of blacks as "you people." By not engaging his opponents, he has manufactured an image of seriousness and statesmanship. By not campaigning, he has insured that most news reports of him will be about his advertising, allowing him, like the Wizard of Oz, to portray himself as he wishes.
"One thing that he has done very skillfully is take those info-mercials and turned them into news," said Daniel B. Payne, a Democratic media consultant in Boston. "He's getting a very tightly controlled message out there. Bush and Clinton are out on the trail and they don't have much control over the bites on the news."
Mr. Perot has no plans to join them, although he is scheduled to appear on Thursday night in one of his friendly environments, Larry King's television studio.
Because he is financing his own campaign, Mr. Perot does not have to worry about about the $65 million Federal spending limit imposed on Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton. And because the success of his campaign does not depend on victory, he has said he is not particularly obsessed with winning.
"He's playing for the future, making himself a force to be reckoned with by both parties," said Mr. Payne. "And he's becoming at least a very loud spectator on the sidelines in the next four years."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: EDS (NYSE) (60%); EDS (FRA) (60%); EDC (LSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (60%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (60%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (60%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: HP ENTERPRISE SERVICES (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; TELEVISION; POLITICAL ADVERTISING MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (87%); ARMED FORCES (85%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); MASSAGE SERVICES (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (76%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (70%); DESERT STORM (67%); NAVIES (66%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (63%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (61%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (60%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (50%); 

PERSON: PEROT, ROSS; SACK, KEVIN ROSS PEROT JR (98%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



835 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: Attacks on U.S. Aid Program Alarm Caribbean

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MIAMI, Oct. 24

 BODY:
Whether they arrived 100 years ago or in 1980, Dominican economists say, foreign visitors to their country would have found a largely agricultural nation that lived almost entirely from its production of sugar, tobacco and coffee.
But in little more than a decade, the aggressive promotion of light assembly industries, strongly aided by American programs known as the Caribbean Basin Initiative, has completely changed the country's landscape, making manufacturing the largest sector of the economy. 
 Although the extent of the transformation varies, similar economic changes have been wrought throughout the region. For many countries, the United States initiative has been crucial in helping open American markets to their new industrial goods.
But governments in the region are growing nervous as criticism of the United States' efforts to foster industrial development and encourage trade with its poorer neighbors is voiced in the American Presidential campaign.
Everywhere in the Caribbean and Central America, governments have begun expressing concern that support for a longtime goal of United States foreign policy, fostering export-led growth, may be coming to an end.
While the domestic debate has focused on what Senator Al Gore called "using our tax dollars to subsidize the recruitment of U.S. companies to move overseas," leaders throughout the region have reacted with alarm to attacks on an arrangement they see as mutually beneficial.
"The Dominican Republic is probably the country that has benefited most, after the U.S., from C.B.I.," said Bernardo Vega, a former central bank director and economist in the Dominican Republic, where 142,000 people out of a population of nearly seven million are working in recently created assembly jobs. "If this kind of relationship were to end, it would completely destabilize our country."
For Mr. Vega, like many of his counterparts elsewhere in the region, the Caribbean Basin Initiative has been a mutual success because it has fostered growth in his country while allowing American producers of goods like textiles, shoes and simple electronics components to remain competitive with rivals in the Far East.
Under the initiative, formally introduced by the Reagan Administration in 1983, goods assembled in the region from American-made materials or parts, like cloth or electrical equipment, can be reimported into the United States under preferential tariffs.
Critics, among them Senator Gore, the Democratic Vice-Presidential candidate, and some American labor leaders, have said that the program causes the loss of jobs in the United States to low-wage competitors by providing technical support in setting up and marketing industrial parks abroad.
Officials in the Caribbean and Central America, however, contend that the United States trade surplus with the region has expanded since the Caribbean Basin Initiative began and that such criticisms disregard other benefits to the United States as well.
"Eighty percent of the textiles we produce in Jamaica are made from American cloth and thread," said Richard L. Bernal, Jamaica's Ambassador to Washington. "If we were to close down, the United States would still be importing similar goods from Asian producers, but they would have no American content at all."
In Central America, where long and costly civil wars recently ended, officials say they see a political risk for their countries should the United States stop encouraging the creation of new industries or restrict their access to the American market.
Countries like Costa Rica and Honduras have already seen as dramatic a transformation of their economic systems as the Dominican Republic. But others, particularly war-torn El Salvador and Nicaragua, are only now beginning to make a full-fledged push toward developing a new industrial base.
In El Salvador, the Government has projected that 50,000 new jobs will be created in export-oriented assembly industries over the next few years under its development program, which arose from the Caribbean Basin Initiative.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (97%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: FAR EAST MOTORS (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LATIN AMERICA; CARIBBEAN AREA UNITED STATES (99%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (97%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); TRENDS (78%); ELECTRONICS (77%); TEXTILE MFG (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); RELOCATIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%); TEXTILES (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W AL GORE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



836 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Little-Remarked Item on Ballot Would Put Constitutional Cap on Spending

BYLINE: By ANDREW L. YARROW, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: STAMFORD, Conn., Oct. 23

 BODY:
With surprisingly little fanfare, Connecticut residents will vote next month on a idea that has been taking hold across the nation: constitutional restrictions on government spending.
The measure, a Constitutional amendment known as Question 2, is supported by most Connecticut political and business leaders, who say that it will insure greater fiscal responsibility and that it is a necessary accompaniment to the passage last year of the state income tax. 
 "We see this as an indication of the voters' concerns about living within our means in Connecticut," said John Rathgeber, the executive vice president of the Connecticut Business and Industry Association.
 
Weicker's Criticisms
 But Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. has criticized such "automatic pilot" spending restrictions as an easy way out for legislators unwilling to make difficult budget decisions. Many town and city officials, already reeling from cuts in state aid, fear that the cap could ultimately mean that the state would pass more costs on to them, forcing property-tax increases. Teachers and other public employees fear that the measure could limit their salaries and harm education and other social services.
"Putting on a blanket cap will intensify competition for dollars between human services, education and aid to cities, and would hurt poorest communities the most," said George Springer, president of the Connecticut Federation of Teachers.
The amendment was put on the ballot after it was passed overwhelmingly by both houses of the State Legislature.
It stipulates that general budget expenditures cannot grow faster than the higher amount of either the increase in the national consumer price index during the previous year or the average of the previous five years of personal income growth in Connecticut before inflation. The cap would exclude spending for debt service, court-ordered or federally mandated programs and aid to 11 cities and towns deemed "distressed municipalities" -- categories that now account for about one-fifth of the state's $8 billion annual budget.
 
11% Spending Growth in 1980's
 The impetus for the amendment was that "the state hasn't been doing the job controlling spending," said Michael Levin, the research director of the Connecticut Policy and Economic Council, a nonprofit research group. During the 1980's, the average yearly growth in state spending was almost 11 percent. If the limit had been in effect, growth would have been less in 6 of the 10 years, he said, and also more consistent, instead of soaring in the mid-1980's and being cut back in the early 1990's.
A statutory limit on spending growth, which took effect this year as a prelude to the proposed amendment, restricted the increase in expenditures in the 1993 fiscal year to 7 percent, based on the same formula of personal-income growth.
Even its backers acknowledge that the amendment is anything but ironclad. The legislature could sidestep its restrictions, for example, by "redefining what one means by general budget expenditures" or by declaring emergencies "for a lot of things we don't see as emergencies," Mr. Levin said.
Because the amendment grew out of the state's 1991 budget and tax reform bill, it has broad political support.
"There was a consensus last year that a two-sided approach to fiscal stability was needed," said Miles Rapoport, the assistant majority leader in the House of Representatives and a West Hartford Democrat. However, he added, "There are potential problems with the cap, which we'll need to debate in two or three years, when the cap becomes tougher."
 
Painful Spending Cuts
 The amendment could lead to painful spending cuts, he said, ranging from aid to towns and cities to programs that provide low-cost prescription drugs for the elderly and services for the mentally retarded.
But beyond such political battles is the question of whether the amendment will do more than create an illusion of fiscal responsibility.
In the approximately two dozen states that have enacted spending or tax limits since the late 1970's, the record has been mixed. A 1988 study by the National Association of State Budget Officers found that about half the states with spending caps had reduced spending as a proportion of state income during the 1980's, but that "relative to states without limitations, the differences are minor."
Governor Weicker, who has declined to comment specifically on the Connecticut ballot initiative, opposed the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings budget-balancing law when he was in the United State Senate and has testified against a Federal balanced-budget amendment. The reason, said a spokeswoman, Avice Meehan, is that he "believes that elected officials ought to be accountable for the expenditure of taxpayer dollars rather than relying on a mathematical equation."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: CONNECTICUT BUSINESS & INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONNECTICUT BUSINESS & INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (99%); CONNECTICUT, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; REFERENDUMS; AMENDMENTS, CONSTITUTIONAL; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; INCOME TAX; TAXATION VOTERS & VOTING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); BALLOTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); PROPERTY TAX (76%); TAX LAW (76%); TAX INCREASES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); CITIES (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (71%); CITY LIFE (68%); TEACHER UNIONS (67%); 

PERSON: YARROW, ANDREW L LOWELL P WEICKER JR (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



837 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Camden Braces for Mischief Night Fires

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CAMDEN, Oct. 24

 BODY:
Authorities have ordered a dusk-to-dawn curfew and assigned nearly the entire police force to duty on Friday, Oct. 30, hoping to avoid a repeat of last year when the traditional pre-Halloween hijinks of "Mischief Night" escalated into an arson spree.
But some residents and community leaders, wary of the plan's effectiveness, say the effort would be better spent on rehabilitating housing and providing more opportunities in Camden's neighborhoods -- not stricter security measures. 
 A year ago, a Mischief Night rampage that residents recall as "a night from hell" was blamed for more than 120 fires and led to scores of arrests. Most of those arrested were juveniles, but officials said later that it appeared that firebugs or professional arsonists might have taken advantage of the confusion.
"We definitely got a bum rap last year," said Thomas R. Knockhe, a board member of the North Camden Trust, an eight-year-old nonprofit group that rehabilitates abandoned housing. "But regardless of that, you have got to protect the city."
 
Modeled on Detroit's Plan
 The city's strategy for Mischief Night this year, known as the Camden Anti-Arson Plan, was drafted by City Hall, the Police and Fire departments, community leaders and the local prosecutor's office. It is modeled after a plan devised by officials in Detroit, where during the mid-1980's hundreds of fires were set on the annual Devil's Night on Oct. 30.
The plan, outlined by Mayor Aaron A. Thompson about a week ago, encourages youths to celebrate in the daytime or at supervised indoor events during the evening. It also encourages adults to set up neighborhood patrols, especially near abandoned property, to head off problems.
But the city intends to back up those efforts with a curfew from 6 P.M. Oct. 30 to 6 A.M. Oct. 31 for all Camden residents ages 5 to 17 unless they are with a parent or guardian.
The city normally has a 11 P.M. to 6 A.M. weekend curfew for children, and that curfew will resume on Halloween night, officials said.
In addition, virtually the entire 300-member police force has been assigned to patrol on Oct. 30.
 
Debate Over Strategy
 But the planned curfew and the increased police presence have heightened a debate that reaches beyond the Mischief Night strategy and to the direction of this city, the sixth largest in New Jersey.
"I'd rather all this strength and mobilization be channeled toward the rehabilitation of housing which wouldn't leave them vulnerable to being burned," said the Rev. Michael Doyle, an Irish-born priest who has been in Camden for the last 24 years.
With nearly half of its 87,462 residents receiving some sort of public assistance, Camden is the poorest urban area in New Jersey and one of the poorest cities in the nation.
Once a thriving industrial city that was home to shipyards and the Campbell Soup Company, Camden began its economic and social slide in the 1950's as white residents started moving to the suburbs. Between 1950 and 1980, the city lost nearly one-third of its population. Thousands of buildings were left vacant, and the closing of the shipyards and the Campbell plant hastened the slide.
 
From Soup to Fish
 In February, the state opened a $52 million aquarium complex on the Delaware River waterfront that officials hope will be the anchor of a revitalization plan for the city. But even the aquarium became caught up in the debate, with some community leaders criticizing city and state officials for not spending the money on Camden's neighborhoods.
There has been no organized opposition to the curfew plan, but critics argue that it will unfairly penalize the innocent. And Father Doyle worries that it could lead to conflicts.
"Forces are sort of poised against each other," he said. "I think the city might have overdone it."
Camden teachers have been encouraged to discuss Mischief Night, and class assignments for hundreds of schoolchildren last week included essays on last year's violence.
Automobile bumper stickers implore: "Do Camden Right -- Stop the Fires on Mischief Night."
Mr. Knockhe said his organization, North Camden Trust, had organized patrols to oversee abandoned buildings and some recently restored houses, including some renovated since last Halloween, in north Camden, the poorest part of the city and the site of most of last year's fires.
"I'm sure the curfew will be very difficult to enforce," Mr. Knockhe said. "The hard part about it is that it makes it look like young people are the problem. But if the young people aren't on the streets, it will help police concentrate on the adults who are and the professional arsonists and firebugs."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CPB (NYSE) (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: CAMPBELL SOUP CO (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CAMDEN (NJ) UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: HALLOWEEN; CURFEWS; ARSON; FIRES AND FIREMEN ARSON (92%); CURFEW (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); HALLOWEEN (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); CITIES (87%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); FIRES (77%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (76%); CHILDREN (74%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MAYORS (70%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (60%); 

PERSON: GRAY, JERRY MICHAEL F DOYLE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



838 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN;
For Those Not Satisfied With a 3-Man Race

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 24

 BODY:
Gov. Bill Clinton and Ross Perot are not the only alternatives to George Bush at the polls this year. Ballots in many states will list an array of would-be presidents, including, for those who don't care, the Apathy Party candidate who promises not to steal for his first two years in office.
The choices also include a psychologist, a professor and an imprisoned felon. Almost two dozen Presidential candidates will appear on various ballots around the country, according to the Federal Election Commission. 
 The common thread, if any, is a desire to challenge "this idea of a two-party system," said Lenora B. Fulani, a New York psychotherapist who heads the New Alliance Party's ticket.
Ms. Fulani, on the ballot in 38 states and the District of Columbia, has raised $5 million for her campaign.
The Libertarian candidate, Andre Marrou, is on ballots in all 50 states and the District of Columbia and Guam -- a fact he cites when complaining about his exclusion from the Presidential debates. "If we could get the coverage you people in the press give to Ross Perot, then I stand a chance," he said.
Lyndon LaRouche, a perennial candidate who is on ballots in 17 states and the District of Columbia, is running his campaign from a Federal prison in Rochester, Minn., where he is serving 15 years for fraud.
"It's a terrible inconvenience," he said Mr. LaRouche, whose ticket is Independents for Economic Recovery.
Jim Boren, the Apathy Party candidate, who is on the ballot in Arkansas, pledges, "I will not steal for the first two years of my administration."
"I'm serious about what I'm trying to do," said Mr. Boren, a political science professor at Northeastern State University in Tahlequah, Okla. "I'm using humor and satire to parody the worst side of politics to try to get people involved."
Because of pending litigation, some candidates may yet be added to some ballots. Here are other candidates, their parties, and the number of states where they are on the ballot:
BRADFORD, Drew -- independent, one state.
BRISBEN, John Quinn -- Socialist Party, three states and District of Columbia.
DANIELS, Ron -- independent, eight states and District of Columbia.
DODGE, Earl F. -- Prohibition Party, three states.
EHLERS, Delbert L. -- independent, one state.
GRITZ, James (Bo) -- independent, 17 states.
HAGELIN, John -- Natural Law Party, 27 states and District of Columbia.
HALYARD, Helen -- Workers League Party, two states.
HEM, Eugene A. -- Third Party, one state.
HERER, Jack -- Grassroots Party, three states.
La RIVA, Gloria Estella -- Workers World Party, one state.
MASTERS, Isabelle -- Looking Back Group, one state.
PHILLIPS, Howard -- Taxpayers Party, 21 states.
SMITH, Robert J. -- American Party, one state.
WARREN, James Mac -- Socialist Workers Party, 13 states and District of Columbia.
YIAMOUYIANNIS, John -- independent, four states.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: ROCHESTER, MN, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: WORKERS WORLD (50%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (57%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (57%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); ROCHESTER, MN, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BALLOTS (89%); US LIBERTARIAN PARTY (78%); FELONIES (77%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PSYCHOLOGY (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); PRISONS (71%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); LITIGATION (65%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (50%); 

PERSON: BOREN, JIM BILL CLINTON (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



839 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1425 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Political Pulse -- Illinois;
Bush's Chances Appear Less Than Slim in Illinois

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Oct. 24

 BODY:
Illinois usually stays up late on Presidential election nights.
The count was close in this bellwether state in 1948, when it went for Harry S. Truman in the wee hours, and in 1960, when it gave John F. Kennedy the barest of majorities. It was close in three of the last four Presidential races. But not this year. Not unless a sudden shift from Gov. Bill Clinton toward Ross Perot, reported late this week by senior officials of both major parties, becomes a stampede. 
 "Clinton started strong and has stayed strong for a long time here," said Bill Daley, a Chicago banker who heads the Illinois Clinton-Gore campaign and who is the brother of Mayor Richard M. Daley. "City, small towns, suburbs, upstate, downstate, right across the board. But we're all a bit nervous about Perot these last few days, I'll tell you."
 
Bush Disappoints Republicans
 Republicans have been crushingly disappointed by President Bush's failure to take take strong measures to arrest his slide.
Representative Henry J. Hyde, a conservative from the Chicago suburbs with a flair for the dramatic, suggested to President Bush's counsel, C. Boyden Gray, that Mr. Bush carry a pocket calculator onto the set at one of the television debates, tally the cost of Mr. Clinton's proposed new programs and hand it to the Democratic nominee with the comment, "You're the Rhodes scholar, you make the numbers add up."
That suggestion went aglimmering, as did the clamor by other important Illinois Republicans for personnel changes -- replacing Vice President Dan Quayle with Gen. Colin L. Powell, for instance, or naming Jeanne J. Kirkpatrick to succeed James A. Baker 3d at the State Department -- to symbolize a fresh start by the Administration.
Newton N. Minow, the onetime chairman of the Federal Communications Commission who now teaches at Northwestern University and who heads the Annenberg Washington project on the news media, said that jamming all the debates into a short period "made it into a mini-series, attracted more attention and heightened the impact."
"I think there's a lot more interest in Perot than before, a lot less dismissing of him for having pulled out," Mr. Minow said. "The question is whether people will actually go for him in the booth, or whether they'll ultimately decide that's a wasted vote."
 
Big Gap in Poll
 In The Chicago Tribune's latest poll, published today but completed last Monday afternoon, before the final debate began, Mr. Clinton led President Bush by almost a 2-to-1 ratio, 47 percent to 25 percent, with Mr. Perot at 10 percent and 18 percent undecided. More than 1,000 voters were interviewed for the survey, and it had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus about three percentage points.
Republicans like Mike Lawrence, Gov. Jim Edgar's press secretary, readily acknowledge that Mr. Bush is well behind. The Governor, a moderate Republican, has campaigned staunchly for the President, and he "still thinks the state could be turned around," Mr. Lawrence said. Asked how good the chances of that happening were, Mr. Lawrence replied that he would rather not put words in the mouth of the Governor, who is resting briefly in Arizona from minor surgery.
Another top Republican, retreating behind the cloak of anonymity, said there was "no way in the world" for Mr. Bush to win here. He predicted the President would lose the state by at least 500,000 votes.
How did such a situation come to pass in a state like this? How has the campaign looked through experienced political eyes here?
Well, for one thing, Illinois has been trending Democratic lately, as first the downstate farmers and then the small-city manufacturers, like Caterpillar in Peoria, have faced hard times. Mr. Bush beat Michael S. Dukakis by only 95,000 votes in 1988, and since then things have got worse for the President.
 
A Stronger Democrat
 The Democratic nominee is stronger this time. Senator Paul Simon, who sought the Democratic Presidential nomination himself four years ago, paused at a farmhouse near Champaign yesterday to make that point. In 1988, he said, "we had an able guy who didn't like campaigning, but Bill Clinton enjoys mixing with people, and that comes across on television."
"The image is one of warmth," the Senator added. "Here's a man who really identifies with the ordinary guy who's in trouble."
There are lots of those now, even in Chicago, whose glistening Michigan Avenue skyscrapers bear witness to the city's status as one of the nation's big urban success stories of the last quarter-century. The city's employment rolls have grown, but the manufacturing sector, with its high-priced jobs, accounts for only 20 percent of the total, down from 30 percent a few years ago. New service jobs pay much less.
Mr. Bush has found it almost impossible to relate to voters who are apprehensive about their economic future, in the judgment of Chicagoans favorably disposed to the President and to his re-election.
 
'Going to Lose Badly'
 Jack Fuller, the editor of the Tribune, whose editorial page has endorsed Mr. Bush, said he was "convinced that history is going to judge the Bush Administration a success, on balance." But the President, Mr. Fuller asserted, "hasn't got the slightest talent for talking to ordinary people about their anxieties, and as a result his reputation has collapsed here, people are angry, and he's going to lose badly."
Illinois has not been as hard-hit as many other states by the recession of 1992. Mr. Lawrence, Governor Edgar's aide, says that "it's not a statistical issue this time, but an anecdotal issue."
"Among white-collar workers, whatever the numbers show," he said, "everyone knows someone who's been laid off or is on the verge of it. People in their 50's like me thought that with a college degree you had no worries. That was wrong, and these white-collar workers, mostly Republicans, tend to scream when they're hurt."
Beginning with his speech at the Republican convention in Houston, Mr. Edgar has tried to address the apprehensions of such people. With the end of the cold war, he said there, striving to link Mr. Bush's foreign-policy triumphs with the domestic agenda, "we have the chance to open a new era of economic growth, an age of expansion for our thousands upon thousands of manufacturing firms."
But others at that convention spoke with what Mr. Fuller, the editor, called "a snarling meanness that turned off lots of people." Carter Hendren, a top Republican legislative aide and electoral strategist, said the convention's concentration on so-called family values had produced "massive slippage among voters under 35."
"The young people are worried about jobs, and about health care, and about how they're going to send their kids to college," Mr. Hendren said. "They're not going to spend very much time worrying about what their neighbor around the corner does in his bedroom."
 
Alienating Some
 Representative Hyde, one of his party's most eloquent voices on Capitol Hill, said that Mr. Bush had disappointed his "anti-tax base" in the state by raising taxes, and had failed to exploit the abortion issue successfully despite his strong anti-abortion stance.
Because "his persona is so bland" and his economic program so weak, Mr. Hyde declared, the President has not scored on abortion as he should have with the Reagan Democrats, the largely Catholic, working-class voters who left their party to back the Californian.
At the same time, traditionally Republican middle-class suburbanites have rebelled against Mr. Bush's position on abortion, with the result that he has severe problems in both the blue-collar and the white-collar suburbs around Chicago, the so-called "collar counties" which any Republican nominee must carry handily to win.
Many older blue-collar voters, switched off by the President but not turned on by Mr. Clinton, seem to be toying with a vote for Mr. Perot, the in-out-in independent candidate. Polls here and elsewhere suggest that he benefited greatly from the TV debates.
Mr. Clinton will certainly benefit from a couple of local political developments. The Democratic party in Chicago is unified for the first time in two decades, with lake front reformers and old-school machine pols, blacks and whites, working together for the ticket, and the campaign of Carol Moseley Braun, bidding to become the first black woman ever to sit in the Senate, could well generate a big black turnout comparable to those for Harold Washington, the mayor who died in 1987.

GRAPHIC: Map of Illinois.
 
Graphs: "An Upstart Stumbles"
 
Carol Moseley Braun vaulted to national celebrity with her upset victory over Senator Alan J. Dixon in the Democratic primary, but her quest to become the nation's first black female Senator no longer looks invulnerable. Illinois lost two House seats to redistricting but is expected to re-elect powerful Congressmen like Dan Rostenkowski, the Democrat, and the Republicans Robert H. Michel and Henry J. Hyde.
 
Graphs show breakdown of Illinois population by ethnic group, for 1980 and 1990 (Source: Census Bureau); how Illinois voted in Presidential elections, 1976-1988 (Source: Illinois State Board of Elections); per capita income, 1988 and 1991, and unemployment rate, Sept. 1988 and Sept. 1992, for U.S. and Illinois. (Sources: Dept. of Commerce; Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (98%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ILLINOIS UNITED STATES (98%); ILLINOIS, USA (98%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); MAYORS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (67%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); APPLE, R W JR BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



840 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: Florio's Naming of G.O.P. 'Jobs Czar' Wins Wide Praise in Trenton Truce

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TRENTON, Oct. 23

 BODY:
For the next year or so, he will be one of the most powerful members of Gov. Jim Florio's cabinet, overseeing a billion dollars worth of public and private projects in an effort to bring jobs to New Jersey.
What makes Robert E. Hughey's appointment particularly interesting is that the Democratic Governor has chosen a Republican to try to stimulate economic growth while Republicans and Democrats, locally and nationally, are blaming each other for the depressed state of the economy. 
In fact, three years ago Mr. Hughey was working to keep Mr. Florio out of the Governor's mansion. He was the manager of State Senator William L. Gormley's unsuccessful bid to be Republican candidate for governor.
Mr. Florio went on to win the general election, and Mr. Hughey returned to private life as an investment banker and planning consultant.
 
Instantly, 'the Jobs Czar'
 But this month, Mr. Hughey's career took another turn. Amid considerable bipartisan hoopla, the 49-year-old Mr. Hughey became Mr. Florio's Chief of Economic Recovery, a new, cabinet-level job that instantly became known as "the jobs czar."
In Trenton, where bipartisan cooperation is rare, the appointment was greeted like a coronation. Assembly Speaker Garabed (Chuck) Haytaian, a fervent Republican who rarely praises anything done by the Democratic Governor, joined Mr. Florio at the announcement to say that "both Democrats and Republicans want to get New Jersey moving again and we are willing to do whatever it takes to do it."
"We are here together to show that the good of New Jersey always comes first," Mr. Haytaian said. "This cabinet-level positon will have real power and Bob Hughey will have the tools he needs to get the job done."
And Senate President Donald T. DiFrancesco, who is also a Republican, said, "I cannot think of any greater priority for this administration than the development of opportunities for business to flourish and jobs to be created."
 
Cutting Through Bickering
 Governor Florio said he hoped Mr. Hughey would use the new post to bring jobs to New Jersey, where the unemployment rate is nudging 10 percent. "We can't afford to tie up a single dollar in delays and red tape, and we can't afford to waste a single minute on political bickering."
In an interview this week, Mr. Hughey described his new role as that of "a super-coordinator," to make sure that all the pieces of job-producing projects, from publicly financed convention centers to private high-tech industry and everything in between, are in place, and if they are not, to put them in place.
The main duty of "the Chief," as Mr. Florio refers to Mr. Hughey, "will be to identify viable job-creating projects, identify resources that can be pooled for economic development, cut red tape for existing or proposed projects, and secure private-sector financing," the Governor's statement said.
How to do that, said Mr. Hughey in the interview just off the Governor's office -- he is still two weeks away from getting an office of his own, or a staff from other agencies -- exists only in outline.
 
'Help Find the Pieces'
 He said: "We are going to meet today, for example, with the state Chamber of Commerce and say what we have already said to the state department heads concerned with public projects, and that is if you have a project under way and if it is close to realization and you have everything in place to build the project, except for one or two things, then bring it to us and tell us about it, and we will help find the pieces."
He is also charged with looking at the projects of state and bistate authorities like the Turnpike Authority, N.J. Transit and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, the New Jersey Building Authority, the Casino Reinvestment Development Authority and relatively more recent undertakings like the Urban Development Corporaton and the Urban Enterprise Zone Authority and projects to renew aging water, sewer and other parts of the urban infrastructure.
He will not create new projects, but help existing ones. "New Jersey already has an infrastructure trust program in place, not just for highways, but for water supplies and sewers," he said. "So unlike other states that are just getting under way on this sort of thing, we also have a broadly based funding power." New Jersey's taxes are supplemented by many public authorities that collect tolls, casino revenues and the like.
 
'A One-Year Coordinator'
 "So the next next logical step is how do we make them work together?" he continued. "Really what I am is a one-year coordinator; it is assumed that I will have it done in a year. All the authorities coordinated and the creations of jobs in a one-year period, when we most need them."
As an investment banker who is also an urban planner -- and as head of the New Jersey Environmental Protection Department for four years under Gov. Thomas H. Kean -- Mr. Hughey brings a resume to his job that Mr. Florio says is tailor made to negotiate credit lines for public and private projects and to balance environmental considerations with job creation.
"It is impossible not to be impressed with Bob Hughey," Mr. Florio said in an interview today. "I worked with him on environmental matters when I was in Congress and he has the skills and ablities I wanted, a balanced, no-nonsense ability to put the pieces together. It is the interaction among agencies that is important, cross-cutting across the agencies and the private sector."
But Mr. Florio said that no one should fear that one of his jobs would be to skirt environmental regulations. "Anyone who thinks you have to sacrifice the environment to create jobs is erroneous," he said. "I don't share that belief, and neither does Bob Hughey. No, no one is going to short-circuit environmental regulations. Most people sign onto the proposition that there should be a balance."
 
Jeep and Shirtsleeves
 Mr. Hughey has a reputation for informality -- he drove a Jeep to cabinet meetings at the Governor's mansion when he worked for Mr. Kean and often arrived in shirtsleeves -- as well as for an amiable but often blunt approach to problem solving.
With the New Jersey economy stagnant -- the loss of 330,000 jobs in the last three years has wiped out much of the gains in the '80's -- he says he will use the same approach in his new job, which pays $100,225, a cabinet salary.
There will be few meetings, he said, but a lot of faxes and telephone calls. "If I met with just the principal players, the authority heads and the cabinet officers, if I actually sat down and had a quality meeting with all those people and tried to understand what they were working on, that alone would wipe out a month and a half of this job, and I don't have time to do that, and I'm not going to," he said.
"But what we are going to do with everyone involved is say, 'What's close, what can be done now, and how can we do it?' Initially, people will think I am rude. I mean, I don't want to just have nice meetings."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert E. Hughey, a Republican, who was just appointed by the Democratic Governor, Jim Florio, as his Chief of Economic Recovery, a new cabinet-level job that signals some bipartisan cooperation. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CABINETS AND SUB-CABINETS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); POLITICS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); TRENDS (71%); 

PERSON: KING, WAYNE; FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV); HUGHEY, ROBERT E ROBERT E HUGHEY (94%); JIM FLORIO (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



841 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Lights to Return Along Rochester's Highways

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ROCHESTER, Oct. 24

 BODY:
The Monroe County executive thinks that $1.46 million is a small price to pay to lift people's spirits, even in tight-money times, especially if he can light up major roads as part of the bargain.
And so, the county bought the lights along its expressways and plans to turn them on next week, after more than nine months of darkness. 
 It's less a question of safety than of morale, said County Executive Robert L. King, who persuaded the county legislature to approve the purchase deal with Rochester Gas and Electric Company.
"Probably I was more concerned about the notion that the loss of the lights caused us to think of ourselves as a community in decline," he said. "It's hard to put your finger on it, but take someone who comes into this brightly lit new airport we have and then they go into this dark hole of Calcutta."
The lights were darkened except at expressway exits by Mr. King's predecessor, Thomas R. Frey, to save the county about $400,000 annually.
 
A Matter of Economics
 After the lights went out in January, radio talk shows were flooded with complaints from motorists, although the complaints subsided when summer brought more hours of daylight.
Specifically, what the county is buying for its $1.46 million is the fixtures of 5,000 lights -- bulbs, wiring and filament -- that sit atop poles that are owned by the state.
The county had been renting the lights, and paying for the power used, which cost $1.72 million in 1991. With the power turned off, the county will pay $1.32 million this year.
Mr. King insists that the purchase is cost-effective. By buying the lights, which will be paid for through 10-year bonds, the county will qualify for a discounted rate for power, he says. The package, including debt service and maintenance, will cost about $1.3 million annually, he said, meaning that in the short term the lights can be turned on for slightly less than the cost of keeping them off.
Calculating the cost of the lights to the county once the bonds are paid off is difficult because the county will be responsible for maintaining the lights.
Since taking office after defeating Mr. Frey, a Democrat, last fall, Mr. King, a Republican, has said that county faced a $42 million budget gap in a budget of $774 million. He successfully pushed for an increase in the county sales tax of one-half of one percentage point, to 3.5 percent from 3 percent, and he has called for another half-point increase in his 1993 budget.
But in the purchase of the lights, Mr. King says, "We're getting the best of both worlds. It's a win-win situation."
When Mr. Frey's administration decided to turn off the expressway lights, they cited studies that found that motorists actually had fewer accidents because they slowed down on darker roads.
Political opponents of Mr. King have criticized him for pushing through the light purchase before fulfilling the pledge he made when he took office to get more studies of the safety question.
But Mr. King said the real value of the lights was community spirit.
He said the darkened expressways gave the county a poor image, especially when combined with news of financial troubles for the Rochester Orchestra and the possibility that the city might lose its minor league baseball team.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RGE (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (57%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); INDIA (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (58%); 

CITY: ROCHESTER, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: ROCHESTER GAS & ELECTRIC CORP ROCHESTER GAS & ELECTRIC CORP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROCHESTER GAS & ELECTRIC CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MONROE COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (91%); INDIA (58%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (58%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; LIGHTING COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); SALES TAX (70%); APPROVALS (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (67%); BONDS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); AIRPORTS (53%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



842 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 40; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1534 words

HEADLINE: Very Private Candidate In a Very Public Race

SERIES: Connecticut's Senate campaign: First of two profiles.

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: FARMINGTON, Conn.

 BODY:
Brook Johnson, with his jacket off and his gold horse cuff links gleaming, looked back over his shoulder in the car he uses for campaigning and did a cackling imitation of an old woman.
"Johnson wouldn't know -- he's a millionaire," Mr. Johnson crowed in a tone of scorn, mimicking the character in a radio commercial for Senator Christopher J. Dodd. That one ad, more than Mr. Dodd's more conventional attacks on Mr. Johnson's business career or the attacks on Mr. Johnson's motives in running for the Senate, hit home, he said. 
 Mr. Johnson is a millionaire who cringes at the very word. He clearly enjoys the trappings of wealth, from having his own polo mounts to his BMW to his homes in London and Florida. But the image he projects, in private and on the campaign trail as Mr. Dodd's Republican challenger, is less the genteel horse-country aristocrat than the flinty shop-floor scrapper made good, with all the resentments still rattling around inside him.
"Everything I have I earned," Mr. Johnson said in an interview. "And remember where Chris Dodd was. He was in Willimantic with his father, a United States Senator, and my Dad was working on the second shift at the American Thread Company in the same town."
 
Enigmatic Clues
 It is from such small moments that one gets a clue to the spirit and character of Mr. Johnson, who has never before run for public office, or for that matter been involved in politics at all. And clues, for the most part, are about all you get. Even his choice of political heroes offers little help in defining the man who wants to be Connecticut's next senator. They are, in Mr. Johnson's order: Winston Churchill, John F. Kennedy and Ronald Reagan.
He climbed the corporate ladder in the rough and tumble world of textile manufacturing, "getting my hands dirty," as he puts it. He enlisted in the Army at the height of the Vietnam War in 1968.
Unknown only six months ago by Republican leaders even in his own hometown of Greenwich, he chose, for his first leap into public life, a statewide run against a two-term Senator from one of Connecticut's most prominent public families. Mr. Dodd's father was Thomas J. Dodd, who served in the Senate from 1959 to 1971.
It is a story that would seem made for politics, and yet Mr. Johnson refuses to discuss some things, like his private business, and dismisses other subjects, like his military service, as irrelevant. In a year in which the Presidential candidates have seemed at times obsessed with Vietnam-era Angst, Mr. Johnson simply waves off his own enlistment, saying "it was a long time ago."
 
Scorning Publicity
 And he has at times seemed as openly scornful of reporters and free publicity as he is of his millionaire image, failing to show up for interviews that might help flesh out his public persona, and meetings with editorial writers who will make recommendations to their readers about whom to vote for. The New Haven Register, for example, endorsed President Bush last Sunday -- presumably indicating fertile ground for a Republican Senate candidate -- but Mr. Johnson snubbed the paper on Monday.
The paper's editorial page editor, Charles P. Kochakian, said a campaign aide called five minutes before the 10:30 A.M. meeting to say Mr. Johnson could not make it. It was the second time, Mr. Kochakian said, that a meeting with Mr. Johnson had fallen through at the last minute.
"I've been covering politics for 20 years and I've never seen anything like it," said Steve Kotchko, news director for the Connecticut Radio Network. "Usually these guys are running to you."
Mr. Kotchko said he twice tried to get Mr. Johnson to appear on a 30-minute interview program that is distributed to more than 20 radio stations around the state. The candidate simply failed to show up the first time; the second time, after Mr. Kotchko said he had spent a day calling the campaign once every hour, an aide said the interview couldn't be arranged. Mr. Kotchko said this week he will have to explain to his listeners what happened, if only to avoid appearing biased because Mr. Dodd has been on the show and Mr. Johnson has not.
If time were on Mr. Johnson's side, such attitudes might be an asset, a sort of take-me-as-I-am anti-politician's bravado. But for a campaign that began from a standing start only six months ago, Mr. Johnson's scheduling troubles and sometimes abrasive manner have turned what would have been a fast-paced ride to Nov. 3 in the best of circumstances into what sometimes seems more like a runaway train.
"It hasn't been bumpy," said Richard Foley Jr., the State Republican Party chairman. "It's been a roller coaster."
 
Starting From Scratch
 Starting from scratch with a candidate not even known in his own party, Mr. Foley said, has required the campaign to build an organization, develop contacts and get Mr. Johnson and his ideas known, all at a full-tilt scramble; not to mention persuading people to vote for him. Mr. Foley said he expects that by Election Day at least 90 percent of voters will at least know who Mr. Johnson is, and that Mr. Johnson will pull off an upset victory and win. Time is the enemy, Mr. Foley said.
Time does not seem to be helping chip away Mr. Dodd's wide lead in the polls. According to a statewide poll by the University of Connecticut's Institute for Social Inquiry released on Friday, Mr. Dodd's lead held steady through the last few weeks. The poll said 51 percent of the 505 registered voters questioned said they planned to vote for Mr. Dodd, compared with 30 percent for Mr. Johnson, and 19 percent undecided. The poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 5 percentage points. A poll earlier in the month showed Mr. Dodd with a 20-point lead.
But Mr. Johnson, who is 46 years old, said he is used to uphill fights. He grew up struggling, he said, partly because his family did not have a lot of money, and partly because his father apparently thought that struggle produced character. Born in Willimantic, a sagging old industrial town in eastern Connecticut that was once at the heart of the state's now moribund textile industry, he worked his way through college at North Carolina State University, where he graduated with a degree in textile engineering.
After the Army, where he served mostly in Europe, Mr. Johnson went back to school under the G.I. bill at the London School of Economics. His career since then, like his father's, has been entirely in textiles, mostly at Collins & Aikman, a Tennessee-based company where Mr. Johnson rose from sales trainee to division president in 15 years.
 
Unwelcome Questions
 Those are the years Mr. Johnson most likes to talk about, and those are years on which his television commercials are based, that his company, while he worked there, created thousands of manufacturing jobs. What happened after he and other executives bought Mr. Johnson's division and turned it into a private company in 1987 is private and the now-public candidate resents even being asked about it. It would help his competitors, he said.
He also does not like to be asked why, according to voting records in his home town of Greenwich, he showed so little interest in politics until this year, only voting twice in the last 10 elections. The demands of his business kept him out of town a lot, Mr. Johnson has said.
"The business world is one where you operate without public scrutiny on every decision, and where authority flows from the top down," said State Senator William H. Nickerson, a Republican from Greenwich who supports Mr. Johnson. In politics, Mr. Nickerson said, everything works by building consensus and almost every act is public. "I think he's made an extraordinary transition from those two different worlds," Mr. Nickerson said.
What Mr. Johnson does like to talk about is the Federal deficit. In attacking Mr. Dodd, he has said that term limits, a balanced budget amendment, and campaign spending limits intended to curtail the need for special-interest donations would all dovetail to help reduce the nation's $4 trillion debt, which Mr. Johnson argues could be erased entirely in six years.
Mr. Johnson and Mr. Dodd do agree on many issues. Both support abortion rights, although Mr. Johnson believes that parents or guardians of minors should be notified. Both oppose military intervention in the turmoil in central Europe. Both also favor overhauling the nation's legal system to cut down on lawsuits that raise medical malpractice insurance and clog the court system.
Such broad agreement doesn't help voters distinguish between the two men, and so probably only helps the better-known Mr. Dodd. But Mr. Johnson is still upbeat about what he has described from the beginning as his longshot chance of an upset victory.
If he loses, will he run again for another office? He's not sure. As his car rolled through the northwest Connecticut hills, Mr. Johnson paused and looked out the window.
"Whether or not I'll run for another office, or get involved as an individual, as a citizen trying to reform government, I want to do something," he said. "It's an obligation of all of us who aren't politicians to take our spot at the wheel."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Everything I have I earned," said Brook Johnson, the Republican candidate for the United States Senate in Connecticut. Mr. Johnson is angry that his opponent, Senator Christopher J. Dodd, says his status as a millionaire would impede his ability to relate to the needs of his constituency. (Steve Miller for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) REPUBLICAN SENATE (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) REPUBLICAN SENATE (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ELECTIONS WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ARMIES (72%); VIETNAM WAR (66%); TEXTILE MFG (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK; JOHNSON, BROOK (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) CHRISTOPHER DODD (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



843 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: In Praise of More Retirement Coverage

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "Pensions -- or Perks for the Affluent?" (Forum, Sept. 20), David Mermelstein and Norman Stein address an important issue. However, the picture is incomplete. 
 First is the problem of inadequate retirement-plan coverage. Only 43 percent of our nation's employees are covered under a private retirement plan, which creates serious problems as our population ages. Any effort to increase the number of employer-sponsored plans via pension simplification must be encouraged.
Employers choose retirement plans based on what makes economic sense for them and their employees. While 401(k) plans are very popular with employees, many employers find the existing pension rules to be both complex and expensive to comply with.
Under current 401(k) rules, contributions by higher-paid employees are "linked," partly, to those in the lower-paid group. The tests needed to prove the 401(k) plan is equitable to both groups can be quite expensive. One proposal in the urban aid tax bill (H.R. 11) would eliminate these tests if certain minimum employer contributions were made. This would simplify administration and reduce costs, encouraging more employers to sponsor 401(k) plans and providing larger benefits for most employees.
Professors Mermelstein and Stein assert that 401(k) plans primarily benefit higher-paid employees since lower-paid employees cannot afford to participate in them. Facts do not substantiate this statement. Our own customer data, along with other recent industry surveys, show that 70 percent of lower-paid employees currently make deferrals under 401(k) plans, where they are available.
The changes in H.R. 11 will simplify pension-plan administration and increase employee coverage. Any attempt to encourage employers to provide plans should be applauded, not castigated.
 
RAY S. CRABTREE
Des Moines, Iowa, Oct. 2
 
Ray S. Crabtree is a senior vice president with the Principal Financial Group.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: PFG (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); SIC6733 TRUSTS, EXCEPT EDUCATIONAL, RELIGIOUS, & CHARITABLE (52%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (52%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL GROUP INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT US 401K PLANS (93%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); TAX LAW (67%); 

PERSON: CRABTREE, RAY S NORMAN R STEIN (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



844 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 8; Page 2; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: WORLD SERIES: NOTEBOOK;
Is a Worldly Series In Baseball's Future?

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Oct. 24

 BODY:
With a Canadian team in the World Series for the first time, there has been talk of a real world baseball championship beginning sometime in the next decade.
Not the amateur baseball championship or the Olympics, but an event featuring the top professionals competing for the United States, Japan, the Dominican Republic and other nations. 
 "We're probably talking about something that major league baseball takes an integral role in developing and organizing," Deputy Commissioner Steve Greenberg said.
 
 
Free-Market Pricing
 The closer you get to a seventh game in a World Series, the higher the prices scalpers charge for tickets.
For instance, take Game 6 between the Atlanta Braves and the Toronto Blue Jays.
When the teams played here in Games 1 and 2 last weekend, field-level seats were being scalped for up to $1,000. Now, with the Series back in Atlanta, the top price for the game on Saturday night reportedly jumped by 50 percent, to $1,500.
Georgia law forbids ticket scalping, but it doesn't extend to legal ticket brokers out of state. Those outlets are asking $250-$950 a seat. (AP)
 
 
Talk About a Package Deal
 One scalper here was offering more than just seats to the game, according to authorities.
The Atlanta police accused Robert Martin of offering an undercover agent a package of two upper-deck seats, enough marijuana for about eight joints and a hotel room with continental breakfast, all for $650.
Martin, 36 years old, was ordered released without bail pending a Nov. 5 hearing. (AP)
 
Baseball Money Talks Softly
 The Series is expected to pump about $40 million into Atlanta's economy. But when it comes to money makers, baseball takes a backseat to pro football.
A consensus of economists from Atlanta, Detroit, Los Angeles and Minneapolis polled by the Atlanta Journal and Constitution said the Super Bowl was the biggest money producer for a city, with expected returns from $125 million to $153 million.
"It's just a different demographic," said Jack Kyser, chief economist of the Economic Development Corporation of Los Angeles County. "It's a corporate event. There's a lot of wining and dining. The Super Bowl type of person would be looking for an upscale hotel. And there's a lot of expense accounts."
Atlanta will soon get a chance to find out. The 1994 Super Bowl will be at the Georgia Dome in Atlanta. (AP)
 
Bullpen Blanks
 Toronto relievers have not allowed a run in 13 1/3 innings of the World Series. No team's relievers have ever finished a Series with more than 13 scoreless innings. . . . The Braves have made only one error in the first five games of the World Series. The record for the fewest errors in a six-game series is one and the record for a seven-game series is two.
 
The Cabrera Index
 President Bush, trailing solidly in the polls less than two weeks before Election Day, told Georgians during a campaign stop this week that the race to the White House wasn't over "until Cabrera swings."
Based on the first five games of the World Series, the Presidential race is over.
Francisco Cabrera, whose two-out, two-run, pinch-hit single against Pittsburgh in the final inning of the National League Championship Series pulled out the pennant for the Atlanta Braves, has not had a swing against Toronto. But then, if there's a seventh game Sunday night, and the Braves are down by a run in the bottom of the ninth with the bases loaded and two out. . . . .
 
Heavyweight Fan
 Among the 55,000 or so fans expected for Game 6 was heavyweight boxing champion Evander Holyfield, who was scheduled to take a break from training for his Nov. 13 title fight against Riddick Bowe to fly into Atlanta for the game. Holyfield, who is from Atlanta, is training in Houston. (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (73%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%); 

COMPANY: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (56%); ATLANTA BRAVES (56%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (56%); ATLANTA BRAVES (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (56%); ATLANTA BRAVES (56%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (56%); ATLANTA BRAVES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); JAPAN (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (73%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (95%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (92%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (92%); TICKET SALES (90%); AMATEUR SPORTS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); TICKET AGENCIES (77%); CANNABIS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



845 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 130 words

HEADLINE: More on the Gas Tax, Con and Pro

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Raise the Gas Tax to Cut the Deficit" suggests just one more way to further destroy the United States economy. 
 Mr. Oppenheimer cites the high gasoline taxes in "Eastern Asia and in Western Europe" -- perhaps he would like to accelerate the decline in the United States standard of living to be on parity with the nations in "Eastern Asia and in Western Europe."
The "ten billion dollars" he anticipates from the first year of an increased gasoline tax will come from transporters of goods and of people, and will increase the cost of products at the retail level, cause tourism to suffer and cut purchasing power. This is not a way to stimulate a flagging economy! It is a way to further destroy it.
 
LEE S. DIMIN
Valley Stream, L.I., Oct. 8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (91%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; TAXATION; EXCISE TAXES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FEDERAL TAXES (US) FUEL TAX (94%); GASOLINE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX INCREASES (88%); LIVING STANDARDS (88%); EXCISE TAX (88%); BUDGETS (88%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); 

PERSON: DIMIN, LEE S

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



846 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 160 words

HEADLINE: More on the Gas Tax, Con and Pro

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Raise the Gas Tax to Cut the Deficit" (Forum, Oct. 4) doesn't make any sense. Your writer, Ernest J. Oppenheimer, seems to believe that if we throw more money into the Federal pot, suddenly the Government will use the money efficiently, wisely and well. Any taxpayer with the ability to read a newspaper -- any newspaper -- realizes there is no basic good financial sense in government. That's why we have a huge deficit and we're going broke! 
 Mr. Oppenheimer points to Europe as an example of higher gas taxes. May I remind him that Europe is also in a very tough recession now? Whether it is due to its citizens being taxed to the maximum is difficult to say, but excessive taxes are not an encouragement to economic recovery. Ask Canadians shopping in Maine.
Dreamy idealism got the United States where it is today, Mr. Oppenheimer. A few realistic ideas would be more appropriate.
 
JACKIE GRIFFIN
Bangor, Me., Oct. 5

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (79%); 

CITY: BANGOR, ME, USA (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); BANGOR, ME, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; EXCISE TAXES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; FEDERAL TAXES (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TAXES & TAXATION (91%); WRITERS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FUEL TAX (90%); EXCISE TAX (88%); BUDGETS (88%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (69%); 

PERSON: GRIFFIN, JACKIE MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



847 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 254 words

HEADLINE: OCT, 18-24: Counterfeiters Prosper;
Law Fails To Protect And Curtail Migrants

BYLINE: Peter T. Kilborne

 BODY:
In 1986, Congress tried to curb illegal immigration, mostly from south of the border, with a law that granted amnesty to three million unauthorized laborers already here and that established sanctions for employers who hire unauthorized newcomers. Congress created a commission to assess the law.
After slowing for a few years, the flow of illegal immigrants appears to be climbing back to its mid-1980's levels, although no one knows the real numbers. Last week, the final draft of the commission's research showed that the Immigration Reform and Control Act has failed in just about every way feared or expected. 
 Farmers, who thought the law would dry up their labor supply, often turn workers away. The anticipated rise in wages and improved conditions from farmers competing for a shrinking supply of workers have not happened either. After accounting for inflation, the study says, migrant worker wages have fallen 2 percent.
The commission found that the law has been undermined by counterfeiters, who produce authentic-looking driver's licenses, Social Security cards or birth certificates for the workers. It suggested that fraud-resistant documents be developed.
But it says the best solution is to phase out Washington's "agricultural protection" that exempts most farms from benefits like overtime pay and unemployment insurance. The practice repels many American job-seekers. Removing it would encourage more to apply -- reducing jobs for illegal immigrants and their incentive to cross the border.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS; IMMIGRATION REFORM AND CONTROL ACT OF 1986 IMMIGRATION (95%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); COUNTERFEITING (90%); AMNESTY (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); OVERTIME (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); MIGRANT WORKERS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); LAYOFFS (69%); LICENSES & PERMITS (67%); DRIVERS LICENSES (52%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



848 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1729 words

HEADLINE: George Bush's Failure -- Bill Clinton's Promise

 BODY:
Paradoxically, this has turned out to be the most popular and least popular Presidential campaign in years. It's the most popular in the sense that a great many citizens are paying close attention. The debates, and political television generally, have been drawing big audiences, and voter registration is up almost everywhere.
It's the least popular campaign because the voters don't much care for the candidates. Even at this late stage in the campaign, only 4 out of 10 of each candidate's supporters strongly favor their man. Thus in 1992 the usual question -- Which candidate is best? --has changed to, Which candidate is disliked least? 
 Meanwhile, history and circumstance make this a pivotal election. It could mark a national turning point; a Democratic victory would bring undivided government to Washington. And it will certainly mark a global turning point: It is the first election since the end of the balance of terror.
President Bush has been a sensible steward of America's foreign interests. But now, with the cold war over, he seems completely stumped by the need for leadership to move the country out of economic stagnation and spiritual unease.
Ross Perot, self-made billionaire, charms voters by, as he might say, talking turkey. But he torpedoed his credibility in July by jumping his own ship for two months. For all his businesslike confidence, he seems bereft of the skills needed to manage the grinding collisions of political interests.
Bill Clinton, though highly regarded by other governors, has not previously been tested on the national stage. He has, when pressed, shown a discomfiting tendency to blur truthful clarity. But he, much more than his rivals, manifests qualities of leadership: intellect, years of immersion in government, the capacity to attract first-rate people -- and the perseverance that has carried him through a brutal campaign. These concrete characteristics equip him to be a good President. With his instinct for ordinary people's concerns and for social unity, he could be even better.
 
President Bush
 The President can rightly claim credit for substantial accomplishments, including domestic legislation like the Americans With Disabilities Act. His successes, however, have been mostly international.
In his finest hours, he orchestrated the remarkable Desert Storm coalition that triumphantly reversed Saddam Hussein's aggression against Kuwait. Though suspicion now swirls about previous relations with Iraq, Mr. Bush managed the enterprise with a virtuosity and resolution that make his domestic dissembling look all the sorrier.
He deserves unstinting credit for launching the Israeli-Arab peace talks. He had an important hand in Germany's unification. He has been a constructive if sometimes grudging force for the transformation of the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe. His Administration worked capably to end violence in Central America.
Just a year ago, largely because of his diplomatic achievements, President Bush was overwhelmingly popular. People chuckled over his often wacky diction. ("We're enjoying sluggish times, and not enjoying them very much.") But now, many voters turn away impatiently, repelled by his contradictions.
In 1988 he proclaimed the seminal six words of his Presidency: "Read my lips: No new taxes." Yet in 1990, to avoid amputating great chunks of government, he repudiated that pledge in a budget agreement with Congress. Then last March he repudiated that, thus denying himself any plausible leadership path.
With such slow growth in this nearly stagnant economy, many Americans feel the pinch of tough times. Yet Mr. Bush has done little to show that he understands the pain or that he has a reasonable idea of how to respond. Even if his deepest instincts tell him that government should keep its clumsy hands off the economy, why not say so, as part of a cogent policy plan?
For a generation now, even Republican Presidents have accepted the idea that Washington should try programs to stimulate a flagging economy. All Mr. Bush offered were some timid little remedies in his State of the Union speech and some incoherent promises to the Republican Convention. Not till after Labor Day did he issue an "Agenda for American Renewal" -- about a year late.
If the President's economic management is thus exasperating, his positions on individual rights are often infuriating. In a climate that cries out for racial healing, he derided even a modest civil rights law. In the AIDS plague years, a time that cries out for somber sensitivity, he aligns himself with intolerant convention speakers eager to disparage, as Pat Robertson did with a sneer, ho-mo-sex-uals.
Bitter differences over abortion rights have divided the country for a generation. Mr. Bush has carried his right-to-life position to radical extremes, like his veto in June of a bill to permit use of fetal tissue transplants in research on Parkinson's disease.
Mr. Bush's high-level appointments have sometimes caused even loyal Republicans to wince, starting with his choice of Dan Quayle as Vice President. Mr. Quayle is not the featherweight he's often made out to be, but since when is mediocrity a standard of choice for a standby President?
The imminence of other Presidential appointments means this election will determine the future of two branches of government. Mr. Bush is determined to appoint justices who will push the Supreme Court hard to the right, well into the terms of several future Presidents. It's an alarming prospect considering Clarence Thomas, his latest nominee. Justice Thomas has shown himself to be so ideological that he attacks even conservative colleagues with slogans. Yet Mr. Bush voices pride in this appointment, and promises more like it.
George Bush is an admirable American -- war hero, entrepreneur, devoted father and grandfather, who has given thousands of endless days to public service. He has often been a prudent manager. None of that, however, makes him a good President. Lacking leadership, his capacity to govern has collapsed.
 
Ross Perot
 George Bush came to office with a superb public service resume; Ross Perot's governmental experience has been slight. Yet he possesses an important quality of leadership. He can sell himself and his ideas. He conveys inspirational appeal to many voters, radiating conviction with folksy force.
But the man who said in July that he could conquer the deficit without breaking a sweat undermined his budding support by suddenly dropping out of the race. Now he's back again, on the ballot in every state and promising to spend $60 million of his own money. But he further diminished his plausibility by choosing as his running mate retired Vice Adm. James Stockdale, an admirable officer but palpably unqualified Commander in Chief.
Mr. Perot has already won himself a reputation as national civics teacher, educating the public to the need for shared sacrifice. His testiness, however, shows how completely he lacks the give-and-take skills needed to make government work. His whimsical candidacy remains merely a refuge for romantic voters who wish politics could be as simple as business and who wish bitter differences could be resolved on command.
 
Governor Clinton
 In contrast to on-again, off-again Ross Perot, Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas has distinguished himself by his tenacity. He needed it. Not well known when the campaign began, he was vulnerable to one controversy after another.
He has also shown another, less attractive characteristic, a propensity for evasive ambiguity when challenged, either on personal matters like the draft or on policy.
There is justice in what President Bush says of his position on the Mexican free-trade treaty: "You cannot come down on both sides of the issue and call it leadership." By endorsing the treaty, Mr. Clinton stands up admirably against provincial special pleaders in his own party; that makes it all the more dismaying when he attaches strings to the treaty that could strangle it.
Likewise, last week he rightly ridiculed Mr. Bush's "read my lips" pledge. But in the next breath he issued his own promise not to raise taxes on the middle class -- even if that meant suspending his own public investment program.
In general, however, Mr. Clinton has taken strong and consistent positions, often notably more moderate than those of traditional liberal Democrats. For instance, he says to deadbeat fathers who fail to pay child support: "Take responsibility for your children, or we will force you to do so." Note the words responsibility and force.
Governor Clinton's choice of Senator Al Gore as his running mate created a confident contrast with the unprepossessing Dan Quayle. Mr. Clinton is an unquestioned leader of education reform and an enthusiastic advocate of initiatives like the police corps, in which students can pay back college loans with service. He knows how much good can be done by ingenious programs like small community development banks.
Most important, he offers the public a coherent, visionary program to conquer stagnation. He identifies America's crucial need: a well-trained work force. Yes, he says, stimulate private investment, but also recognize the need for public investment in education, infrastructure, the environment.
Republican skeptics worry that "more public investment" would turn into, simply, more pork. They say his program does not add up, and they may be right. But so what? No October plan adds up in January; what counts is the vision it sets out. Mr. Clinton's vision inspires hope.
He speaks passionately and consistently for tolerance and racial unity. As he told the Democratic Convention, politicians have for too long said that "what's really wrong with America is the rest of us. Them. Them the minorities. Them the liberals. . . . There is no them; there's only us." He stirs the conscience when he says, "We need each other."
Governor Clinton's knowledge of government puts Ross Perot's oversimplifications to shame. The promise of his program makes George Bush's belated agenda look paltry. And Bill Clinton's devotion to social justice makes both his opponents sound like auditors. Voters rarely have perfect choices for President, but this year, in Bill Clinton, they have a clear one.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); GERMANY (79%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (70%); CENTRAL EUROPE (51%); EASTERN EUROPE (50%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); GERMANY (79%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (70%); CENTRAL EUROPE (51%); EASTERN EUROPE (50%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); COLD WAR (77%); DESERT STORM (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); PEACE PROCESS (50%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



849 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Russia's Rumblings

BYLINE: By LESLIE H. GELB

 BODY:
Are the Russians contriving their own new and bizarre brand of gothic democracy -- or could they be heading toward Yugoslav-style chaos and nationalistic authoritarianism? To experts, the answer is both.
With Americans and West Europeans looking inward, Russia has taken strange and ominous turns, and its foreign policy and domestic future may be hanging in the balance. 
 * The Russian Intelligence Service (successor to the infamous K.G.B.) admits to U.S. officials that Russian military intelligence is off on its own and setting record levels for spying, that is, recruiting agents and stealing industrial secrets. Not to worry, says the R.I.S., it's only military inertia.
* The largely defanged Russian military is making a play to share power. Military leaders insist on Russian troops staying put in their new sister republics -- like the Baltics, Moldova, Georgia and Tajikistan -- to protect Russian minorities. This forges a highly explosive nationalistic link between "endangered" Russians abroad and the army.
* The Russian military is also trying to hold on to weapons banned by treaty or commitments. Military leaders secretly continued to make biological weapons, violating treaty terms -- and lied about it to President Boris Yeltsin. When confronted with U.S. evidence, they confessed. They are also pressing their political superiors to keep certain missiles and missile silos. This would contradict Yeltsin's promises to the Bush Administration and the agitation is delaying a new nuclear arms treaty.
* Prime Minister Yegor Gaidar and Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev are sounding alarms about a "constitutional coup" by the conservative legislature to unseat Mr. Yeltsin and destroy reform efforts. Maybe they are simply appealing to their many friends in the West to save their jobs, which are in jeopardy. Or maybe they know what they are talking about.
* Mr. Yeltsin barely lifts a finger to prevent what he himself calls a potentially catastrophic constitutional confrontation in December. So, on Wednesday, the standing "small" legislature voted overwhelmingly to convene the full legislature on Dec. 1. That full body will have power equal to Mr. Yeltsin's and could conceivably shackle his authority. The President could pre-empt that move by staging a nationwide referendum to abolish the full legislature or to validate new elections.
Most experts do not think matters will come to such a pass. They reckon that these rumblings are birth pangs of Russian politics. They feel that both pro- and anti-Yeltsin forces fear unpredictable elections and a breakdown of order, and will find a power-sharing compromise.
But even if the experts are correct and a paper compromise can be hammered out, this will do nothing to halt political and economic deterioration.
Neither economic reformers nor the highly diverse center group called the Civic Union has a politically viable economic plan. All their schemes contain big holes and promise too much pain for too long to a cynical public. Pockets of economic success can be found, but the downward spiral continues. For Russia, a better standard of living stands a generation away -- if and only if leaders establish public confidence before pushing ahead with tough decisions. And no Russian leader is prepared to sound that trumpet of sacrifice. (Sound familiar?)
Nor have Western leaders told Moscow flatly that there will be no Western pot of gold. Thus, Russian leaders go on fantasizing about a Western rescue that will never come, and putting off the hard choices.
Russian economic miscalculations could be compounded by political miscalculations, if reformers and conservatives misread the West's recent inattention. Westerners' self-absorption does not mean they have lost interest in Russia or no longer realize the centrality of Russian stability to any new world order.
Soon, Western leaders have to rekindle the old signal fire. They must loudly reaffirm their commitment to Russian democracy and reform and unmistakably underline their opposition to constitutional coups. Russian coup plotters in August 1991 misunderstood Western unhappiness with Soviet chaos. The plotters actually believed the West wanted them to overthrow Mikhail Gorbachev. The West should leave no room for similar misconstructions in December.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); GEORGIA (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

COMPANY: RUSSIAN INTELLIGENCE SERVICE COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUSSIAN INTELLIGENCE SERVICE COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); GEORGIA (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ARMIES (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (76%); ESPIONAGE (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); POLITICS (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (70%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (70%); REFERENDUMS (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); 

PERSON: GELB, LESLIE H BORIS YELTSIN (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



850 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: Tax Cuts and Spending Hikes? No Way!

 BODY:
To the Editor:
How wrong can you get? "First, Fight the Slump" (editorial, Oct. 9) calls for "a menu of quick-hitting tax cuts and spending hikes" as the best remedy for today's sagging economy. 
 Of course, you contend that this grossly irresponsible course must be temporary. For 30 years in the Senate I heard this siren call. I'd expect it in a political body. But to hear it from The New York Times? Ouch!
As long as the Federal Government is running a deficit of $300 billion-plus, and rising -- year after year pushing up the national debt a third of a trillion dollars annually -- America will suffer increasing economic paralysis as the drain of rapidly increasing interest payments deprive the country of the investment in research, training and acquisition of machinery and equipment vital to the productivity this country must have to compete internationally.
The trouble is that our 2 percent to 3 percent economic growth rate is not the result of too little Federal Government stimulus. It is not as if a $500 billion or $600 billion annual deficit will push us out of our oh-so-slow economic growth rate.
Our problem is the size of the deficit. And you want to make it bigger! All in the name of temporary stimulation. You're calling for a guarantee of more drain on our shriveled household savings.
Do we need more investment in infrastructure and education? Yes indeed. But we need to reduce consumption at the same time to get it! Let's start with a 50-cent-a-gallon tax on gasoline to be promptly invested in highways, bridges and related infrastructure. Let's slap a tax on all kinds of consumption, as proposed by Senators Sam Nunn and Pete Domenici, and I mean very big taxes, big enough and progressive enough to steer Americans away from costly new cars and homes and encouraging -- O.K., forcing -- investment in high-tech business.
Let's recognize the truth in "No gain without pain." Let's subsidize directly and heavily the kind of technical training of our work force that the Labor Department tells us will be necessary if in the next 20 years we are to have a world-class work force.
A Labor Department study found that less than 3 percent of our young adults have the reading and math skills to cope with the high-technology economy we are about to confront.
Just any old "quick-hitting tax cuts and spending hikes" are politically tempting. They will guarantee a continued economic slump and a grim future for our world-leading economy. We can do better than that, a lot better!
 
WILLIAM PROXMIRE
Washington, Oct. 9, 1992
 
The writer was Senator from Wisconsin from 1957 to 1988.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); BUDGETS (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); PRODUCTIVITY (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); FUEL TAX (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (67%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%); GASOLINE (64%); 

PERSON: PROXMIRE, WILLIAM PETE DOMENICI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



851 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 167 words

HEADLINE: Tax Cuts and Spending Hikes? No Way!;
The Secret Budget

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"The Truth About the Deficit" (Op-Ed, Oct. 4) offers only a partial truth. Charles J. Zwick and Peter A. Lewis omit the fastest-growing segment of the Federal budget: so-called off-budget expenditures.
By 1984, off-budget expenditures were adding more than $100 million to the annual budget deficit, according to the National Center for Policy Analysis. Since then a proliferation of off-budget loan guarantees for farmers, students, homebuyers, shipbuilders, the flood insured, cable television companies and other industrial and small-business loans have further increased off-budget expenditures. 
 These off-budget expenditures have precisely the same economic consequences as on-budget expenditures. Whether a defaulted guaranteed loan is on or off budget, the taxpayers pay the bill. Until these off-budget expenditures are included in the deficit by our deceitful Congressmen, there can be no complete truth about the deficit.
 
C. W. GRIFFIN
Phoenix, Oct. 4, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL CENTER FOR MANUFACTURING SCIENCES INC (79%); NATIONAL CENTER FOR POLICY ANALYSIS (57%); NATIONAL CENTER FOR POLICY ANALYSIS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CENTER FOR POLICY ANALYSIS (57%); NATIONAL CENTER FOR POLICY ANALYSIS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); BUDGET DEFICITS (88%); TAX LAW (85%); TAXES & TAXATION (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (69%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (69%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); 

PERSON: GRIFFIN, C W

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



852 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: U.S. SENATE RACE;
The Candidates on the Issues

 BODY:

ECONOMY AND TAXES
Robert Abrams, Democrat: Favors phased reduction in military spending to $145 billion in the year 2000, or roughly half the military spending forecast by the Bush Administration for that year. Would use part of the estimated $900 billion to $1 trillion savings for deficit reduction and part for investment in infrastructure, housing and schools. Favors tax credits of up to 20 percent for businesses and industries that invest in plant modernization or defense-industry conversion, and of up to 30 percent for research and development. Opposes any increase in personal taxes. 

Alfonse M. D'Amato, Republican: Opposes any tax increases. Favors a constitutional amendment requiring a balanced budget. Has proposed a two-year freeze in Federal spending, except for Social Security. Favors tax credits for first-time home buyers, and restoring full deductibility for I.R.A. accounts. Wants private enterprise zones to help rebuild inner cities, and privatization of some Government services.

 HEALTH
 
 Abrams: Favors a national health insurance program, backed by Congressional Democrats, to provide benefits to all Americans, in place of more than 1,500 private insurance plans now in place. Says the national plan would be financed through a new payroll tax (in lieu of premiums employers now pay) higher corporate taxes, and higher taxes on alcohol and tobacco. Favors condom distribution in schools and needle exchanges to fight AIDS.

 D'Amato: Favors plans backed by Congressional Republicans to offer vouchers to poor families that could be used only to buy medical insurance, and tax deductions for families with incomes below $80,000, plus the deduction of medical insurance premiums for the self-employed. Supports changes in medical malpractice and laws to hold down medical costs. Opposes needle exchanges. Supports supervised condom distribution in schools as long as parents can elect that their children not participate.
 
THE MILITARY
 Abrams:
 Says military spending cuts of nearly $280 billion over the next five years should be used for "victory fund" to revitalize the economy. Proposes to reduce total troop strength to 1.1 million from 2.1 million, Army divisions to 7 from 18, Air Force fighter craft to 800 from 1,728. Also favors large cuts in strategic nuclear warheads.

 D'Amato: Favors cuts in military spending of $85 billion over the next five years, emphasizing troop reductions in Europe, leaving a total of about 100,000, fewer than the 150,000 the Bush Administration wants. This would comprise one heavy Army corps, six Air Force tactical wings and Navy headquarters and support units for the Sixth Fleet.

THE ENVIRONMENT
 
Abrams: Favors increased Federal support for recycling and the imposition of minimum standards for recycled content in packaging and paper. Supports Earth Summit limits on emission of greenhouse gases, and favors stricter energy efficiency standards for automobiles and appliances. Favors more stringent review of pesticides and stronger Federal open-space provisions and conservation incentives.

D'Amato: Has taken a grab-bag of positions on environmental issues. Has fought vigorously for mass transit money and stricter fuel emission standards, but voted against cleaning up contaminated Department of Energy nuclear waste centers. Has voted both for and against restoring United States financing to the United Nations Population Fund.

ABORTION
 
Abrams: Favors abortion rights and opposes restrictions like parental notification for teen-agers or 24-hour waiting periods. Supports Medicaid financing for abortions for poor women, though his office is required by law to defend a state law that provides money for prenatal care, but not abortions, for some women with incomes above the poverty level.

D'Amato: Opposes abortion, and has endorsed a proposed constitutional amendment holding that life begins at conception. In the past, he opposed abortion except to save the life of the mother, but now says he also favors exceptions in cases of rape and incest. Favors parental notification. Twice voted to uphold the gag rule prohibit federally financed family planning clinics from dispensing advice about abortions, but recently voted against it.

 CRIME:
 
Abrams: Opposes the death penalty, but supports an alternative statute that would mandate life in prison without parole for certain crimes, including murder. Supports stricter handgun controls and a ban on assault weapons. Favors increased Federal support for enforcement of state and local drug laws and for residential drug treatment programs.

D'Amato: Favors the death penalty for murder or contract killings ordered by drug lords. Has opposed some gun control laws, but voted for the Brady Bill to require a waiting period for handgun purchases nationwide. Sought to make street handgun slayings a Federal crime, punishable by death.

CIVIL RIGHTS
Abrams: Favors Federal legislation providing benefits to domestic partners regardless of sexual orientation. Favors Federal law to bar discrimination against homosexuals. Pledges to support new Federal laws to punish bias-motivated violence.

D'Amato: Cast a deciding vote to let stand President Bush's veto of the Civil Rights Act of 1990, arguing that the bill would lead employers to use quotas. Says the Federal Government should "do more" to protect the civil rights of all Americans, whatever their "predilection," but has not specified how.

EDUCATION
 
Abrams: Favors loan program to allow every American student to borrow up to $10,000 per year to finance college education, with the money repaid through future tax filings on a scale linked to income levels. Opposes prayer in schools, and tuition tax credits for private and parochial schools.

D'Amato: Favors tuition tax credits for private and parochial schools, and giving parents of public school students the right to select which school their children can attend. Supports voluntary prayer in the schools. Favors expanding existing loan programs for college students, and a new plan in which loans would be repaid on a sliding scale pegged to income.

FOREIGN AFFAIRS
 
Abrams: Says that the United States is "the world's only remaining superpower, but should not attempt to be the world's super-policeman." Says European allies should take lead in forging a peaceful solution in the former Yugoslav states. Refused to say unequivocally until the Persian Gulf War ended whether he favored that use of military force. Sharply criticized the Bush Administration for delaying loan guarantees to Israel.

D'Amato: Was a sharp early critic of Saddam Hussein and a proponent of the Persian Gulf War. An early supporter of independence for the Baltic states, and strong backer of Israel. Warns that despite the end of the cold war, "this is still a dangerous world." Supports coordinated United States-European action to provide cover for humanitarian relief in Bosnia.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 3, 1992, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
A map on Sunday showing states with United States Senate races misstated the status of New Jersey. There is no Senate race in New Jersey this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CORPORATE TAX (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); AIR FORCES (89%); ARMIES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); BUDGETS (79%); REAL ESTATE (79%); POOR POPULATION (79%); ARMED FORCES (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); NAVIES (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CHILDREN (76%); INCOME TAX (76%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (75%); ELECTIONS (74%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (74%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (72%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (71%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (71%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (69%); CITY LIFE (68%); CLIMATE CHANGE (68%); AIDS & HIV (67%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (67%); EMISSIONS (65%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (64%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); GREENHOUSE GASES (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (57%); AIDS & HIV POLICY (52%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (50%); 

PERSON: D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN); ABRAMS, ROBERT (ATTY GEN) ALFONSE M D'AMATO (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



853 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 2; Page 34; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: ARCHITECTURE VIEW;
Two on Base, One Out In Toronto

BYLINE: By Paul Goldberger

DATELINE: TORONTO

 BODY:
FOR ALL THE GOOD PRESS THIS city has received, it hasn't been much of a place for architecture. (It wasn't much of a place for baseball, either, once upon a time.) Toronto's glory was in its ability to make urbanity seem benign and welcoming, to make the very idea of downtown appealing -- a more important achievement, in some ways, than the creation of a bunch of prima donna buildings.
But as Toronto's baseball fortunes have changed, so, too, has its approach to building. This city now has three new buildings that stand on their own as works of architecture, buildings that would have a claim on our attention no matter where they had been put. One of these projects, the galleria at the recently finished BCE Place office complex in the downtown business district, is among the best public spaces conceived in the 1980's, and it is full of lessons for other cities. Another, Terminal 3 at the Lester B. Pearson International Airport, is the finest piece of airport architecture since the United Airlines terminal in Chicago. And the third, the downtown headquarters of the Canadian Broadcasting Company, is a garish monument to deconstructivism that proves that Toronto, for all its virtues, is not above the desperate search for trendiness that afflicted so much commercial architecture in the last decade. 
 The best first. BCE Place (for Bell Canada Enterprises) consists of a pair of sleek office towers in gray granite with sculptured tops that, taken by themselves, are respectable if hardly distinguished. What raises this project far above its peers is the collaboration between the architects, the New York office of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, with the Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava, who designed the remarkable galleria connecting the two towers.
Mr. Calatrava, who won the competition to design a biosphere for the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York, is a visionary architect, not the sort to make his daily bread in the service of real-estate developers. But here, working with Raul de Armas, the architect in charge of the project, Mr. Calatrava produced a stunning six-story, 380-foot-long structure of white-painted steel and glass, leaping skyward with graceful, yearning arches.
Mr. Calatrava and Mr. de Armas have done a gentle dance here -- or perhaps it is more of a hesitant conversation between two people who do not speak the same architectural language but sense they have something to say to each other. Both the galleria and the office towers bespeak a search for a balance between rationalism and romanticism. Plenty of other skyscrapers are products of the same quest -- but nowhere else has it yielded anything like this galleria, which is brilliantly balanced between expressing pure structure and romantic aspirations. Ultimately the galleria comes off as a very sensual, expressive space, at once delicate and strong.
The first temptation is to say that this arcade is what we would have gotten if Antonio Gaudi had been co-opted into partnering with some big-time commercial architect. The galleria is nothing if not Gaudi-esque. In truth, however, Gaudi would have been far more subversive than Mr. Calatrava has been, and would have done something more challenging, even outrageous. It doesn't detract from Mr. Calatrava's achievement to point out that he seems to have been a little too eager to please here. The result is a mood that is a bit more commercial than spiritual, as shown in compromises like the escalators to the below-ground retail concourse in the middle of the galleria, a gesture akin to putting a stairway down the center of a nave.
The new airport terminal, designed by Scott Associates of Toronto, is frankly commercial, but that is part of what makes it interesting. The Canadian Government, following a pattern used in many public projects (but not airports) in the United States, invited private developers to bid for the right to build and operate the terminal. That a high level of architectural seriousness was achieved here is all the more remarkable, then: this building was put up to make money, not to be a monument.
The terminal is long and sleek, with white metal and lots of glass, including a vaulted ceiling. The building has a certain kinship to Helmut Jahn's United Terminal in Chicago, with one essential difference: this one has a gentle curve to it, which makes it more enticing, for the curve subtly propels you through the high main hall. On balance this is a much softer, easier structure than the terminal in Chicago, its details less Teutonic, its overall mood less hard-edged. The Toronto airport proves that decent airport design is not impossible on a tight budget and, moreover, that warm high-tech is not an oxymoron.
If only the Canadian Broadcast Center proved anything so promising. This 10-story studio and office building, designed by John Burgee and Philip Johnson of New York along with Bregman & Hamann and Scott Associates of Toronto, is a boxy concrete grid into which have been shoved a couple of projecting glass boxes and a glass cylinder. A grid of red-painted metal intersects the larger concrete grid, making a sort of plaid pattern on the facade.
The building was created as a demonstration of the so-called deconstructivist style of architecture, a theoretical approach in which the goal is to present the building as an amalgam of competing elements rather than as a coherent whole. Mr. Johnson, whose role as a patron of new styles (and of the younger architects who help intitiate them) is well known, has done much to bring the more ambitious examples of deconstructivism to the public eye.
But whatever its virtues, the style has been so watered down here as to make this building almost indistinguishable from the average tarted-up modern office building of Toronto or any other city. The Canadian Broadcast Center comes off not as a serious essay in deconstructivism, but as a little bit of this and a little bit of that -- deconstructivism so diluted that it is hard to see how it differs from the decorative, know-nothing commercial style of Dallas freeway architecture.
Only the sprightly red grid distinguishes this building. Take it away and what have you got? A very ordinary building indeed. Now that may be a kind of virtue in that it says that these architects could do a lot with economy of detail. But is that high art? And does it justify the claims made for this building as an important work? The broadcast center, alas, seems less a building for the 90's than the last gasp of one of the major failings of the 1980's: the Put-a-Famous-Architect's-Name-on-Anything syndrome.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 8, 1992, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Oct. 25 about new buildings in Toronto referred incompletely the role of Bregman & Hamann Architects. In addition to being associate architects on the Canadian Broadcast Center, they were the co-architects (with Scott Associates) of the new airport terminal and the master planners and architects (along with Skidmore, Owings & Merrill and Santiago Calatrava) for the BCE Place project and its galleria.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Santiago Calatrava's galleria between two towers -- What we would have gotten if Gaudi had gone into partnership with some big-time commercial architect? (Robert Burley/Graphic Archive)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TICKER: BCE (TSX) (56%); BCE (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (53%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (95%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (95%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BCE INC (56%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%); SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TORONTO (ONTARIO) CANADA (95%); UNITED STATES (90%); ONTARIO, CANADA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (95%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE; REVIEWS; NYTRAVEL AIRPORTS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (71%); AIRLINES (67%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERGER, PAUL ANTONIO GAUDI (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



854 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1545 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Behind the Scenes;
The Faces Behind the Face That Clinton's Smile Masks

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS, Nev., Oct. 23

 BODY:
On television, Bill Clinton radiates earnestness, empathy and polite deference, coming across as an odd hybrid of television evangelist and think-tank analyst. But in person, it is possible to see more: his commanding attitude and his supple political shape-shifting, his fascination with and yearning for the adulation he is getting, and his surliness and finger-wagging upbraidings when something does not go exactly as he likes.
After a rousing, celebrity-powered rally in the once-conservative stronghold of Orange County, Calif., on Thursday night, Mr. Clinton lost his temper with a Secret Service agent when a couple of autograph seekers evaded a rope line in the parking lot of the amphitheater and got to Mr. Clinton. 
 "This is not going to work if these people just walk up," he snapped at the agent, his body tense and his eyes hard. But as he started moving toward the crowd again, he transformed his face back into the political mask of the easy-going country boy and resumed his loose, unhurried gait.
 
Oxford and Dogpatch
 For all the years he has been in politics, George Bush is a transparent politician, easy to read through verbal cues and body language tics. Bill Clinton, on the other hand, is a more opaque and complicated subject, a curious and sometimes calculated blend of Oxford polish and Dogpatch raffishness, of idealism and expediency, elusiveness and ego.
At one moment, the 46-year-old Arkansas Governor will be biting his lower lip, Elvis-style, and beaming his "Aw, shucks, all this attention for me?" slack-jawed smile, assuring audiences that he does not want to be President for himself, since he has a good life in Arkansas, but only to help make America a better place for his 13-year-old daughter, Chelsea, and the sort of decent, working-class folks he knows in Arkansas.
At the next moment, he will show flashes of pride and temper natural in a man who sees, tantalizingly within reach, the prize he has been hungrily moving toward for decades. Mr. Clinton has done what it takes, from restyling his hair to confessing his sins to muting his wife, and he has the concentrated air of one who is not about to let it slip away now.
 
Nerves Getting Frayed
 With polls showing his lead dropping, he is relentlessly crossing the country, hoarsely selling himself as the hip, fresh, Kennedyesque alternative to a tired "ol' Bush," as he calls the President. This is a campaign on a fast and scary water slide to Nov. 3: the mood is, by turns, giddy, paranoid, snappish and smug.
The campaign's nervousness was reflected in the attempts of aides to chastise and argue with reporters who wrote that Mr. Clinton still has problems on the trust issue, as reflected by polls.
Because of the static about "character" questions that has surrounded his campaign, the portrait of Mr. Clinton has been a caricature of labels like "Slick Willie," draft-dodger and ladies' man. And because the candidate has been fashioning and refashioning his political image and message for so long, there is a packaged quality to his appearances that dims spontaneity and makes it difficult to discern the real Bill Clinton. It is hard to tell if the large crowds he is attracting love him or simply the idea of change.
He pays close attention to the smallest details of his image: His aides confided that when he started jogging with Senator Al Gore, he became self-conscious about the long, baggy shorts he was wearing to exercise, reminiscent of the ones worn by overweight boys at camp, and has been trying to go shorter himself, if not yet quite as short as his fitter running mate.
 
Eyes of the Predator
 Like Dan Quayle, Mr. Clinton comes across as one who has long been a golden boy. But unlike the Vice President, Mr. Clinton does not try to wing it and leave much of the tedious homework on issues to others.
At airports, he scans the scene with a predatory look, seeing if there are any potential voters to charm. He is so eager to work any rope line, offering a series of speech bites on education, health care and taxes, that reporters have taken to chanting, late at night in the fifth city of the day, "Get in the car, get in the car!"
Some aides suggest that the Clintons are still uncomfortable with their new level of rock-star-style celebrity, in which women scream as they once did for Frank Sinatra, hold up signs reading "Bill's a Babe" and "Blondes for Bill," and tell Mr. Clinton as they shake his hand, "You're so much more handsome in person."
But it only takes a few hours on the campaign to see that Mr. Clinton gets the same adrenaline charge from working yet another group of voters screaming "We love you Bill!" that George Bush did from traveling overseas to attend meetings of his cherished global club.
 
On the Charm Patrol
 The Democrat jokes about this phenomenon, portraying it as the flaw of a policy dweeb. "There are some detailed policy positions I haven't gone over yet," he mischievously told exhausted reporters late one night. "Maybe we could block out an hour later."
Although Mr. Clinton has spent a lot of time avoiding reporters, when he thought they would be asking critical questions, this week he was on charm patrol.
Flying from Orange County to Las Vegas for a rally at the University of Nevada, he changed into a white sweatshirt, black slacks and black loafers and walked back to the press section with baby steps, intoning in a deep voice, "Yes, we're going to take bold steps into the future."
Asked about his mother's taste for gambling, he said: "My mother was supposed to be in Vegas but she was summoned to Moscow. She was consulting with the right-wing bunch there on how to get rid of Yeltsin."
It was the Republicans who were supposed to have a closet-full of October surprises for the Democrats, but the surprises so far have been exploding cigars for President Bush on Iran, Iraq and the feuds in his own Administration. And Mr. Clinton is quick to turn each Republican embarrassment to his political advantage.
He ignores the occasional Bush signs -- "Have some more syrup on your waffles, Comrade," read one in Billings, Mont. -- and treats hecklers with amused contempt.
"Don't boo that poor boy," he told the crowd at the Orange County rally, when a lonely Republican called out from among the 24,000 Clintonistas. "Why are you giving him any attention at all? Blow it off. We won't have to put up with it much longer."
He tries to portray himself as the heir to both John F. Kennedy and Ronald Reagan. This week, he even began saluting his audiences, in the way Ronald Reagan, another President who never went to war, liked to do. He has promoted himself, as Mr. Reagan did when he vanquished Jimmy Carter and Walter F. Mondale, as the avatar of uplifting oratory and Western swagger.
He posed on a Harley-Davidson motorcycle in a biker's jacket at the Milwaukee airport; sat around in a white cowboy hat jawboning in a dusty auto parts store in Pueblo, Colo., with a bunch of Western governors in matching white hats, and strode on stage in Montana, Colorado and Wyoming to music such as "The Magnificent Seven," (also used for Marlboro commercial), "Ghost Riders in the Sky," and "How the West Was Won."
He talked tough about welfare and the death penalty and offered Reaganesque anecdotes about ordinary Americans who have told him of their problems. At a rally in Las Vegas on Friday, he even suggested that the economy could grow out of its crisis -- a favorite Reagan prescription.
 
Both Hip and Presidential
 He presents himself as young enough to be hip, yet old enough to be Presidential, even joking sometimes that he needs reading glasses to see his notes. Clinton aides carefully choose the music for his rallies -- from the Beatles' "Twist and Shout," "Revolution" and "Here Comes the Sun" to the Beach Boys' "Good Vibrations" -- to underscore the generational message.
At a Chicago rally on Tuesday, Mr. Clinton and Tipper Gore swayed to the beat and sang along when Michael Bolton crooned one of his pop love songs. While Mrs. Gore mouthed "I love it" and Mr. Clinton looked so moved he might cry, Hillary Clinton and Al Gore stood by stiffly, like two members of the high school math club straitlaced at a mixer.
After a rally at the University of Oregon, Mr. Clinton discussed "funkodelic" music with the Crazy 8's, a band from Portland, and borrowed a saxophone to play a few bars of "Take Five," the Dave Brubeck classic written by saxophonist Paul Desmond.
At the Orange County rally, Mr. Clinton acted shy as he joined Whoopi Goldberg and the singing nuns from her movie "Sister Act," in a rendition of the rock song, "Shout." While he wants to be seen as with-it, he does not want to get too wild, so he limited his participation to clapping and occasionally calling out "Shout."
But afterward on his plane, when reporters were tweaking him about not giving a more soulful performance, he tried to make up for it by describing the last time he saw James Brown in concert.
"I saw his show a year or two ago, and he was fat but he could still do it," Mr. Clinton said. "You know, he's got a big old pot belly now, and he can do the splits and go right down to the floor and come back up. It's amazing to see."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 RELIGION (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); GOVERNORS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (54%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); DOWD, MAUREEN BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1992



855 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 40; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: 2 Run on Records in Silk Stocking District

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL

 BODY:
City Councilwoman Carolyn B. Maloney was grumbling about her Congressional campaign's lack of money the other day when the 86th Street crosstown bus rolled up, bearing an enormous poster of her opponent, Representative Bill Green.
She stood there for a moment against the backdrop of Mr. Green's picture and noted, rather wistfully, that she can ill afford the $750 needed to buy such an advertisement. And then, as the bus rolled away, Ms. Maloney picked up her bag of leaflets ($8 for 100) and walked on to her next meet-and-greet stop, a street fair on Broadway. 
 Money is not the least of Ms. Maloney's obstacles in her campaign against Mr. Green, who has represented the wealthy 14th Congressional District for seven terms and staved off challenges by such rich and formidable Democratic opponents as Bella Abzug, Mark Green, Carter Burden and Andrew J. Stein. Ms. Maloney also has to contend with Mr. Green's reputation for being good natured, independent and progressive, a Republican even the district's Democrats -- who outnumber its Republicans 3 to 1 -- have been more than able to live with.
"Bill Green is extremely popular, and he matches the style of the district -- upscale, moderate, sensible," said Norman Adler, a political consultant not connected with the race who has worked for both parties. "He supports good causes. The constituents think he's a Democrat in sheep's clothing."
But Mr. Adler cautioned that in this most volatile of political years, not everything is certain. Among the things on Ms. Maloney's side, he and others say, are her sex and party in a year when women and Democrats are expected to do particularly well here and new boundaries that have inserted heavily Democratic chunks of Queens, Brooklyn and the Upper West Side into the district.
A third candidate, Abe Hirschfeld, running on an independent line, is not considered a major factor in the race.
Ms. Maloney, who is 44 years old and worked briefly as a public-school teacher, is best known on the City Council for her work investigating city contracts in sludge and other areas. As chairwoman of the committee on contracts, Ms. Maloney has helped set up computerized systems that can track information on contracts and vendors doing business with the city. "Some people find them boring, but contracts are a passion of my life," she said in an interview at a coffee shop on the Upper West Side, as her two young daughters sat drinking juice at a nearby table.
 
10 Years on Council
 The reputation she gained as dogged and hard working through 10 years in the City Council led many local Democrats to feel that if anyone could beat Mr. Green, it would be her.
"I believe this is a wonderful district for an assertive Democrat like Carolyn Maloney to run in," said Ruth W. Messinger, the Manhattan Borough President. "It's a district that has regularly kept alive the tradition of mixed representation, where people are willing to switch candidates based on their stand on the issues."
But Mr. Green, who has a considerable personal fortune, is a fixture in the Silk Stocking District, so named because it includes some of Manhattan's toniest areas. He argues that he is in a position to help the city as the only New York City Representative from either party on the House Appropriations Committee. And he enjoys riches far beyond the $70,000 Ms. Maloney has spent so far on the campaign. (She says she has about $10,000 on hand.) As of Sept. 30, Mr. Green had spent $466,550 and had an additional $427,533 on hand.
In this year when Republican candidates in far friendlier places are distancing themselves from their President and party, the Congressman boasts of his non-Republican stances on such issues as abortion -- he is for abortion rights -- the environment and gun control, and indeed he has been endorsed by groups like the Sierra Club and the National Abortion Rights Action League. He also proudly points to a 1991 study in Congressional Quarterly that shows he voted against President Bush 69 percent of the time that year, more frequently than any other House Republican.
"I feel my race stands apart from the top of the ticket," said Mr. Green, 62, tall, relaxed and looking preppily rumpled over a cup of coffee at an East Side diner on a recent morning. "The best the top of the ticket ever did in my district was when Ronald Reagan got 38 percent of the vote." That year, Mr. Green said, he himself got 56 percent of the vote.
 
Disputing Votes
 Conceding that he supports many of the same causes that she does, Ms. Maloney is nevertheless trying to chip away at Mr. Green's reputation by casting him as a typical Republican supporter of Reagan and Bush economics. "The biggest issue confronting this city is the economy and jobs," she said. "Bill Green voted consistently with the Reagan economic measures that have gutted the city."
To bolster that view, she includes with her campaign literature a list of Mr. Green's votes supporting various Republican economic bills. For example, she points out that in May of 1981 Mr. Green voted to enact President Reagan's first economic plan, which increased defense spending and included tax cuts for the rich. And in September 1991, Mr. Green voted against a plan to extend unemployment benefits, a plan that the Administration opposed but that a third of the Republicans in the House ended up supporting.
Mr. Green, who describes himself as being fiscally cautious, counters that she is misrepresenting his record by taking the votes out of context. As far as the first vote goes, he notes, he did support the 1981 Reagan budget. But he contends that it was only after many of the deepest cuts were taken out of the earlier version, changes he says were made because he and other dissenting Republicans pressed for them.
As far as the second vote, Mr. Green says, he did vote against the bill Ms. Maloney is referring to. But at the same time, his staff points out, he has voted to extend unemployment benefits six times in the last year. The reason he opposed the September bill, said Charlotte Feldman-Jacobs, his press secretary, was that it included no financing for the extension.
For his part, Mr. Green does not seem that worried about Ms. Maloney, though his campaign has taken to sending unflattering clippings about her in local newspapers to reporters. "She's been in the City Council for more than 10 years, but for 9 years they did very little except change the names of streets and playgrounds," he said. "Although I have no objection to the names they chose."
 
Unpredictable Year
 With a minuscule advertising budget -- she says she is trying to scrape together the $13,000 needed to send out a district-wide mailing -- Ms. Maloney spends much of her time shaking constituents' hands and mobilizing volunteers to pass out her literature. She is paying special attention to the new 20 percent of the district, in Greenpoint, Brooklyn; Astoria, Queens, and Roosevelt Island, which are thickly Democratic and where Mr. Green is not so well known.
The question now is, will Mr. Green's reputation on his home turf be enough to help him prevail if there is a landslide in the district for Clinton? "He's well-known as the New York City Republican, and the issue is whether in this time of change people want to stick with him," said Hank Morris, a Democratic political consultant not connected with the race. "He's always been a survivor, but this is the toughest political year to survive."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Representative Bill Green, the Republican Congressman from the 14th Congressional District, has always won support from the majority of Democrats in his district (Dith Pran/The New York Times). His opponent, Councilwoman Carolyn B. Maloney, is trying to use his Republican ties against him in this election. (John Sotomayor/The New York Times)
 
Map of 14th Congressioanl District
 
Tables showing percent of those in 14th District with public assistance, who are noncitizens and those over 25 with high-school diploma, as compared with New York State.
 
Graph showing population breakdown by ethnic group for 14th District.
 
(Sources: 1990 Census, New York State Legislative Task Force on Redistricting)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) HOUSE REPUBLICAN (72%); CITY COUNCIL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) HOUSE REPUBLICAN (72%); CITY COUNCIL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); CITIES (79%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); WOMEN (70%); RETAILERS (69%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (65%); 

PERSON: LYALL, SARAH; GREEN, BILL (REPR); MALONEY, CAROLYN B (COUNCILWOMAN) CAROLYN MALONEY (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1992



856 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: World Markets;
Out of China, a Boost for Hong Kong

BYLINE: By Sheryl WuDunn

DATELINE: BEIJING

 BODY:
ORDINARY Chinese must be wondering what could have happened in their country to have sent the Hong Kong stock market bouncing to new heights this week. For while their markets, in the cities of Shanghai and Shenzhen, were creeping downward, the Hong Kong market rose to a new record, mostly on the news from China.
The prime shaker in the Hong Kong exchange is not a central bank. It is a coterie of elderly men, most in their 80's, who rule China and who with a cough or a stumble can send the markets reeling. They essentially determine the pace of China's economic growth -- the direction is invariably up -- and therefore the action in Hong Kong. 
 Last week, the action was in the Hang Seng index, which surged to a peak of 6,329.12 on Thursday, dropped by 66.58 points on Friday to 6,262.54, but even so was up 277.21 points, or 4.6 percent, for the week.
Underlying the market's rise is a change in perceptions about Hong Kong's relations with China. For years, Hong Kong's proximity to China and its scheduled return to Chinese control in 1997 have provoked anxiety, dampening investor confidence and lowering price-earnings ratios in Hong Kong.
But these days, a growing number of investors see China as an opportunity, rather than a threat. They argue that Hong Kong companies are able to participate in one of the greatest economic booms anywhere, and that the boom will continue for many years.
"Hong Kong is always a proxy to China," said Wai-keung Wan, sales director at the Jardine Fleming brokerage house. "China is embarking on a long-term growth trend. In the 1990's, any country that can produce economic growth can reasonably command a premium. Therefore, people feel very positive about China."
Hong Kong's stock exchange, once a wayward cowboy market of which Americans were wary, has been rising on and off since the beginning of this year. A buying frenzy in Hong Kong seized investors last week because they thought China had cleared a number of political and economic uncertainties.
Investors were reassured by the new leadership team that the Communist Party announced a week ago, feeling that the seven members of the new Politburo Standing Committee are reform-oriented. In fact, the appointments were largely expected, but the market seized upon the news to leap ahead.
In the process, the market ignored some bad news: China's Communist leaders criticized and snubbed Hong Kong's new Governor, Christopher Patten, signalling that relations may become tougher between Hong Kong and China. Mr. Patten had come to China to discuss his proposals for broadening democracy in Hong Kong and for financing a $16 billion airport. "On the face of it, it was quite negative," said James K. Osborn, assistant director at Baring Securities (Hong Kong) Ltd. "But on sheer fact, it was not a worse surprise than what was expected."
On Friday, however, after Mr. Patten departed for Hong Kong, China said it would retaliate if Mr. Patten's proposals for democracy and the airport were implemented without Beijing's consent. China's comments are certain to influence the direction of the market next week. Disappointment with the trip -- coupled with profit-taking -- accounted for the market's fall on Friday.
The underlying reason for the Hong Kong market's euphoria recently has been the 14th Communist Party Congress, which culminated Monday with the announcement of the new leadership team. The congress declared that China would develop a "socialist market economy" with the emphasis on "market."
Moreover, China's senior leader, Deng Xiaoping, who is 88 years old and holds no posts, appeared on public television on Monday. Investors took that as good news -- dispelling fears that he was virtually on his death bed -- instead of focusing on the fact that his health seemed much worse than the last time he appeared on TV, in February.
Mr. Deng exerts the greatest influence in the country, and now he is determined to lock China onto a course of building a market economy. The congress hailed him and his commitment to economic reform.
The previous week also brought news that lifted the market. Chinese and American trade negotiators broke a stalemate in discussions over American exporters' access to the Chinese market. The result was that China agreed to import more American goods, thereby avoiding punitive duties on as much as $3.9 billion worth of Chinese exports to the United States.
Money has been pouring in these last couple of weeks from the United States, as well as from Asia, analysts said. Although trading is conducted in Hong Kong dollars, the currency is pegged at a rate of about 7.8 Hong Kong dollars to the United States dollar. "One beauty of the Hong Kong stock market is that it is really a U.S. dollar market because of the peg," said Allan Ng, a senior analyst at S. G. Warburg Securities (Far East) Ltd. "No matter what happens, there's not currency risk."
Many of Hong Kong's large companies have shed the undeserved fly-by-night reputation they had a decade ago. The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation recently acquired the British bank Midland Bank P.L.C. Among the major China plays in the market are Hopewell Holdings Ltd., a construction firm building a highway in China.
Not surprisingly, most of the buying focused on blue chip companies, such as the Hong Kong Bank, and on Cheung Kong, Hong Kong's largest conglomerate, run by its richest man, Li Ka-shing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (58%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: SOUTH CHINA (92%); EAST CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (73%); 

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: HONG KONG & CHINA GAS CO LTD (58%); HONG KONG & CHINA GAS CO LTD (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA; HONG KONG CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH CHINA (92%); EAST CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (73%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); TRENDS (72%); BONDS (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (60%); GOVERNORS (56%); SENIOR CITIZENS (56%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL CHRISTOPHER PATTEN (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1992



857 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 1; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1774 words

HEADLINE: USAir Pulling Out of Mercer

BYLINE: By BARBARA STURKEN

DATELINE: WEST TRENTON

 BODY:
ON a wet Friday afternoon at Mercer County Airport in September, passengers clutching rain-soaked tickets and bags hurried past a poster beckoning them to sunnier climes: "Fly USAir to Tampa -- only $349 for four days!" There was no hint that within a few days the airport's jet service, operated by USAir nonstop to its main hub at Pittsburgh three times daily, would be just a memory.
And last week, the Mercer County Executive's Office was notified that USAir plans to discontinue its daily propeller-plane flights to Baltimore and Washington National Airports, the only remaining scheduled service, by the end of the year. 
 The airline's actions represent a serious blow to the community's efforts to make Mercer Airport a viable alternative to the Newark and Philadelphia airports.
The service cutback also comes at a time when many industry analysts believe that secondary airports like Trenton's are poised to grow in importance as major airports become more and more crowded.
After the jet service was dropped, said William Mate, director of the Mercer County Division of Economic Development, "we were flooded with calls from people complaining that USAir was taking the service away just when it was becoming an integral part of our economy."
One disappointed passenger was Eileen Pogo, who lives a 10-minute drive away in Hamilton Square. "I don't understand why they are leaving," she said. She ticked off the advantages of Mercer over a big airport like Newark International, including free long-term parking and the speedy arrival of luggage after a plane lands.
Gloria Burke, a Trenton resident, echoed Ms. Pogo's concern. "It's a mess going to Newark or Philadelphia," she said.
Passengers to the Pittsburgh USAir hub could fly on from there to other parts of the country.
 
Need for 'Tough Choices'
 Susan Young, a spokeswoman for USAir, explained the removal of jet service in these terms: "All the carriers have lost a lot of money over the last year, and we have to make some tough choices. This service was simply not economically feasible." The flights, using 110-seat DC-9 aircraft, were often less than half full, she said, and the jet equipment could be used more profitably on another route.
Airport and county officials criticized the company's decision to drop the Pittsburgh route after 11 months as premature. "We feel they didn't give the service enough time," said Edward Meara, president of the Mercer County Chamber of Commerce.
He and other officials pointed to boarding figures showing that traffic had been steadily building each month as more local residents learned of the service. Total jet passengers grew from 2,867 in January to 4,101 in May and 5,029 in June, most of them business travelers.
In all, 22,313 people used the USAir jet service during the six months ending in June; an additional 7,249 passengers flew on USAir's commuter flights in the same period. In July, however, passenger jet traffic at Mercer dipped to 3,851.
Mercer officials also said that USAir had failed to give the service enough advertising support. "You can't get people on the planes unless they know about it," said John Maier, whose final day as manager of the airport happened to coincide with the end of the jet service.
The industry's cash crunch, however, has left airlines with fewer dollars to spend on the sort of promotional efforts that can build up a following for a new service like Mercer's.
 
Advertising Drops
 USAir at first backed its jet service with various promotions, offering travelers out of Mercer double miles in its frequent flier program through last April. But since then, local officials said, there has been little advertising.
The loss of the commuter flights, on top of the withdrawal of jet service, has further angered Mercer County officials. The 19-seat propeller planes, serving Baltimore and Washington, have been operated by Jet Express, USAir's subsidiary.
Kenneth Carlson, president of Jet Express, said last week in a notification to the Federal Department of Transportation that the company believed that the commuter service would be uneconomical without the ground-handling and other support that had been supplied as part of the jet service.
Lynda Brugno, director of the Mercer County Department of Transportation and Infrastructure, said: "It is a blow, and of course we are disappointed. We can only hope either that Jet Express will somehow stay or that we will get a replacement."
Mr. Mate said discussions were now under way with a Northwest Airlines commuter partner, Precision Airlines, to offer daily flights to Boston, where passengers could connect to flights to other points in the United States and to Europe and Canada. The airport would still like to attract a carrier that could offer access to the South and the West, he said.
 
Microcosm of Deregulation
 To some observers, the story of USAir's short-lived service at Mercer is a tale of airline deregulation in microcosm. "It's all about hubs and spokes, and we're a spoke," Mr. Maier said. In the aftermath of the deregulation of the industry in 1978, the major airlines established giant hubs in major cities that act like sorting centers, ferrying in passengers from scores of smaller cities and then shipping them out on flights to their ultimate destinations. At some hubs almost three-quarters of all passengers are simply there to change planes.
For a small airport like Mercer, achieving spoke status can be a boon for local customers, who can fly to virtually anywhere in the country with one stop at the hub city. USAir promoted the Mercer-to-Pittsburgh flights as an efficient way to reach 300 destinations as disparate as Bermuda, San Diego and Frankfurt.
Mercer is experiencing another side effect of deregulation: by and large, the Government no longer requires airlines to consider the needs of local communities when they enter or exit routes.
And since the airline business has posted staggering losses lately -- in the last two years USAir has lost more than $700 million -- companies tend to base decisions on where to position their jets on short-term financial considerations.
 
News From Taxi Driver
 When abandoning a community, airlines rarely consult with the local leaders who courted them in the first place. Mr. Maier said he had learned of the end of USAir's jet service by talking to a taxi driver.
"What we normally do is to notify our employees and then notify the airport," Agnes Huff, a USAir spokeswoman, said. She added that she did not know why that had not happened at Mercer.
Local officials say they tried several times to meet with top USAir executives, but with no success. Robert D. Prunetti, the Mercer County Executive, said he had written twice to Seth Schofield, the chairman of USAir, requesting a meeting to discuss the situation. Two weeks after the service was discontinued, he said, a company executive wrote to say that the decision was final.
A restoration of jet service by USAir or another major line is unlikely, Mr. Maier said. "With the economy in a recession, it just doesn't look good," he said.
The airport will thrive only with Government assistance, he said. The Federal Department of Transportation does supply some subsidies for commuter airline service at smaller airports that would otherwise have no scheduled airline service. With the withdrawal of Jet Express commuter flights, Mercer would be in that position.
 
Free Trade Zone Sought
 Meanwhile, Mercer has applied for Federal status as a free trade zone, so that cargo could be shipped to the airport and stored duty-free. If the airport became a hub for freight, officials said, more businesses would be attracted to the area, and passenger jet flights might return.
Mercer's location midway between the busy gateways of Newark and Philadelphia is at once an advantage and a drawback. The two international airports offer customers a large choice of airlines and flights, and are each about an hour's drive from Trenton. But large airports often subject travelers to a host of annoyances: clogged roadways around the terminals, long waits for luggage to arrive and steep parking fees.
At Newark, it costs $22 a day to leave a car for up to three days near the terminal; longer-term parking, at a distance from the terminal, costs $6 a day. And the air fares offered by USAir out of Mercer were competitive with prices from airlines serving Newark, Mr. Maier said.
When Mercer opened a modern terminal in 1976, it also expanded parking in the belief that this might lure more customers. Free overnight parking is available in a lot that can hold up to 100 cars. The lot is guarded 24 hours a day.
 
 
 
Corporate Jets, Too
 Mercer County Airport, which is on a 440-acre stretch of land off Scotch and Bear Tavern Roads in West Trenton, hums with activity.Scheduled air service is just one part of its total operations.
Ronson Aviation, which charters and services corporate jets, has a sizable presence. Nearby companies, including Johnson & Johnson and Bristol-Myers Squibb, keep corporate jets there. The National Guard has a base on the site. In all, more than 600 people work there.
The runway can handle jets of any size except jumbos. In recent months, President Bush, Vice President Dan Quayle and Senator Al Gore, the Democratic Vice-Presidential candidate, have all landed there. The control tower coordinates 150,000 to 175,000 takeoffs and landings a year. The flow of traffic has led some local residents to complain about jet noise.
Built by the Army Corps of Engineers in 1943, the airport was used as a base for Navy planes until 1952, when the Government deeded it over to the county, which now provides it with an annual operating budget of about $1 million. The Federal Aviation Administration chips in $300,000.
For many years, the airport was served by Allegheny Airlines. In 1979, Allegheny -- by then rechristened USAir -- abandoned Trenton for more profitable markets in the Sun Belt.
Jets returned to Mercer in 1984, when United Airlines came in with three daily flights to Chicago. But within two years United, too, had moved on. While United was at Trenton, arriving and departing passengers totaled 60,000 annually, setting a record for scheduled passengers at the airport.
It was only after intense lobbying by the community that USAir decided to give jet service at Mercer another chance last November. Local officials argued that the influx of companies into the Princeton corridor area might provide the extra traffic to make the service viable.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%); TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (90%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: USAIR INC U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: USAIR INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MERCER COUNTY (NJ); MERCER COUNTY (NJ); NEWARK INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT; PHILADELPHIA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT; BALTIMORE-WASHINGTON INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT; WASHINGTON NATIONAL AIRPORT; MERCER AIRPORT (NJ) UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%); TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (90%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES AIRPORTS (98%); AIRLINES (91%); COUNTIES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (53%); 

PERSON: STURKEN, BARBARA

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



858 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1810 words

HEADLINE: Downtown Mainstays Are Lost in the Shuffle

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

 BODY:
FOR many years, Society for Savings was a mainstay of downtown Hartford, but it will become "Bank of Boston-Connecticut operation." G. Fox, another Hartford tradition, is being closed, and its branch stores in the suburbs will become Filene's. Connecticut Bank and Trust has become Fleet Bank, and Connecticut General has become two anonymous initials in the insurance giant Cigna.
And there are indications that the trend toward closings and regional mergers and consolidations in business could continue. Analysts have been busy speculating on the implications of the Primerica Corporation purchasing a large share of the Travelers Corporation, the Hartford insurance giant. 
 The changes have prompted one banker to observe that perhaps the real growth industry in Connecticut is sign painting.
But some economists find the trend no laughing matter. There is concern that as Connecticut becomes home to regional offices, rather than headquarters offices, the state will suffer. "Chances are that sooner or later there will be a merger of functions, like the payroll department, to take advantage of economies of scale," said a finance professor at the University of Connecticut School of Business Administration, Dr. Lewis Mandell. "And those merged departments are generally going to be moved to the headquarters," Dr. Mandell predicted. "So if the headquarters are outside of Connecticut, Connecticut stands to lose jobs."
A professor of economics at Fairfield University and a manager for the New England Economic Project, Dr. Edward J. Deak, said he had mixed feelings about the trend.
"With a friendly takeover, typically the new combined company is going to be better capitalized and better managed, so the likelihood is that the firm will be around longer, which benefits the consumer," Dr. Deak said.
"On the other hand, though, when things start to go wrong and they start looking for divisions to close, there's not that much connection to the community if their headquarters aren't here," Dr. Deak said. "They're more inclined to shut down rather than tough things out."
 
Loss of Hometown Support
 Dr. Deak also said that hometown-based corporations tend to support more civic functions. "Customers are nationwide, and they're all going to be treated the same way," Dr. Deak said. "But if you're looking for United Way support, or money for the symphony, or uniforms for the Little League, they're going to help their home community first.
That's not to say that outside firms do not take part in those functions, Mr. Deak said. "But if you're based in Boston, you're not wedded to the fate of Bridgeport."
Communities can come to be identified with the companies headquartered in them. Willimantic had the American Thread Company, the successor to a company that started in the mid-19th century. The city painted bobbins on its police cars in honor of the thread mill, and it was widely known as "Thread City," until the mill closed in 1985.
And there are places where that kind of identification with a single company remain. In Killingly, for instance, the village of Rogers was renamed years ago in honor of the electronics company (the village used to be known as Goodyear, when a tire manufacturer had a plant in the community). Rogers supports many local causes -- it even pays the village's street light bill -- and its employees serve on many local boards and in civic organizations.
"We don't usually think about the benefits that accrue to us through our community activities," said the president of Rogers, Harry H. Birkenruth. "Being a good neighbor just seems like the right thing to do. I know that it's important to me to feel personally connected to the community where I live and work, and I suspect that most other Rogers employees would agree."
The closing of a business that has long been a part of the community can leave a void that takes years to fill -- as in Bridgeport where the closing of Read's department store left the downtown without a major retailer, said the vice president of the Bridgeport Regional Business Council, Carole B. Adzima.
 
End of Lunchtime Shopping Sprees
 "The impact has just been horrendous on downtown employees; if you needed something you could run over there on your lunch hour," Ms. Adzima said. "Now if you need something you wait until after work and you run to Trumbull or Fairfield."
Ms. Adzima said people tended to shop where they lived, and because so few people lived in downtown Bridgeport there was little reason to put any retail uses there.
By Jan. 1, Hartford will lose one of its downtown institutions as well, when G. Fox closes, and its suburban branches -- nine in Connecticut, two in Massachusetts, one in New York and one in Rhode Island -- will become part of the Filene's chain. Both chains are owned by the May Department Store Company in St. Louis.
A spokesman for the May company, James Abrams, said the issue of G. Fox being a locally based chain was one that weighed heavily in the decision-making process.
"We were very sensitive about it," Mr. Abrams said. "We studied it at length, realizing G. Fox is a very prestigious and historic name. But so is Filene's. Our desire is to operate a dominant, regional department store, and Filene's is in a lot of markets that G. Fox is not, and is more widely recognized."
 
The 'Name' Factor
 There was also a lot of consideration about what a takeover would mean at the former Connecticut Bank and Trust, now Fleet Bank, said its marketing director, John Parunak.
"We knew the value of the name of Connecticut Bank and Trust," Mr. Parunak said. "The name was as important to some customers as the service and convenience and the quality of products we were delivering."
Fleet took over C.B.T. in July 1991, and spent eight months doing various analyses, focus group studies and surveys to determine how to proceed.
"What we found out was that for most customers, as long as we didn't change their life, they didn't care what name we put over the door," Mr. Parunak said. At that point Fleet began the process of converting 600,000 C.B.T. accounts to Fleet accounts.
"There's always some fallout when you make changes," Mr. Parunak said. "But we see the last year as a success. There was no appreciable impact on our business. In fact, we've brought in many new customers."
The Connecticut General Insurance Company was taken over by the Philadelphia-based Insurance Company of North America (INA) a decade ago, but the combined company, known as Cigna and based in Philadelphia as well, never abandoned its roots.
"Connecticut General is still a name we very much use in the life insurance business, in the pension business, and in our group health plans," said an assistant vice president of Cigna, Rick Goulart.
 
Most AEffected Is Banking
 Mr. Goulart said the company treated all its customers the same, whether they lived in Pennsylvania, where the company is based, or in Connecticut, where it has almost 3,000 employees.
"But a company's name does make a difference to the community, and any major company is sensitive to how the company is viewed by the public," Mr. Goulart said. "Those factors weigh very heavily in a decision to move into a community, or in a decision to pull out."
Perhaps the Connecticut industry most affected by mergers and acquisitions has been banking, because of a listless economy and a sluggish real estate market. Out-of-state banks have taken over, or taken large shares of, several Connecticut banks.
"One of the reasons for a merger or takeover is operational efficiencies, so why would they leave redundant operations in Connecticut?" asked Dr. Mandell, a nationally recognized authority on banking. "Connecticut becomes kind of a branch office, a district headquarters."
Dr. Mandell said he once did a study for the Federal Comptroller of the Currency that looked at customer satisfaction in banking. The expectation was that the large, regional banks could provide better service.
"Contrary to the theory, the satisfaction was much higher where there were restrictions on expansion," Dr. Mandell said. "If it's a local bank, you're banking with a person who grew up with you, who lives in the same town, whose kids go to school with your kids.
"Now when you want a loan you fill out a form and some computer in another state makes the decision," Dr. Mandell said. "It can be very harmful, particularly for small business in Connecticut, because the decisions cannot take into account the character of the individual, something a personal banker would know."
 
Hartford Decline
 Dr. Mandell said he worried that the trend could accelerate in some cities. Hartford, for instance, has been so battered by the economy that it is declining in importance as a financial services center. Eventually some of the large law firms that serve those companies could disperse, the restaurants where those employees eat and the shopping centers where they shop could dry up, and cultural opportunities could disappear.
"What's the likelihood that a UTC is going to stay in Hartford?" Dr. Mandell said, referring to the huge conglomerate once known as United Technologies Corporation. "A few years ago, they were looking for a site to put up a new building. Now they're renewing their lease on the Gold Building on a short-term basis. And if they go, a lot of other companies could follow."

 
VANISHING INSTITUTIONS
 November 1981: Connecticut General Corporation and the INA Corporation, parent of the Insurance Company of North America, announced plans to merge, forming Cigna.
February 1987: D.M. Read, a Connecticut department store chain, and Jordan Marsh, based in Boston, were consolidated after their corporate parent, Allied Stores, was acquired by the Campeau Corporation.
November 1987: The Hartford National Bank, which merged with the Connecticut National Bank in 1982, approved a merger with the Shawmut Bank Corporation of Boston.
July 1991: Federal regulators arranged for the Fleet/ Norstar Financial Group to acquire the Connecticut Bank and Trust Company and the Bank of New England, which had merged in 1984 and were declared insolvent.
August 1991: Citytrust and the Mechanics and Farmers Savings Bank, both of Bridgeport, were declared insolvent by regulators and acquired by the Chase Manhattan Corporation.
June 1992: The Connecticut National Bank, the state's largest with 143 branches, announced that it would change its name to Shawmut Bank Connecticut in January.
September 1992: The Society for Savings, a Hartford-based savings bank, agreed to be acquired by the Bank of Boston.
September 1992: G. Fox & Company, Hartford's last downtown department store, said it would close early next year and 13 other Fox stores across the state would be renamed Filene's in February.

 

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (93%); C (BMV) (93%); 8710 (TSE) (93%); BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); CI (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (93%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (78%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (93%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); TRAVELERS CORP (71%); CONNECTICUT BANK & TRUST CO (58%); CIGNA CORP (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (78%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RELOCATION OF PERSONNEL; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); TRENDS (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); INSURANCE (76%); TAKEOVERS (76%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (66%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, ROBERT A MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



859 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 3; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1662 words

HEADLINE: CONNECTICUT Q&A: RICHARD A. DUFFEE;
He Inhales So Others Can Breathe Freely

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

 BODY:
RICHARD A. DUFFEE is a founder and an owner of Odor Science and Engineering in Bloomfield, an international consulting company that sniffs out trouble. He has spent 36 years tracking down the source of odors and helping companies and municipalities snuff them out.
In the field he works with plastic bags to collect air samples and a portable "scentometer," which is a device about the size of a portable cassette player -- except with nosephones instead of earphones -- to filter air and determine how much odor is present. In his laboratory he has machines that dilute air for measurement purposes and complex chemical analyzers that track specific compounds. 
 Mr. Duffee, 61 years old, has a degree in chemistry from Boston College and one in meteorology from the Pennsylvania State University. While working at Battelle Memorial Institute in Ohio he did graduate work in experimental psychology at Ohio State University. He worked for T.R.C. Environmental Services as chief scientist, before starting the consulting company, which is one of few in the nation, in 1987.
Odor Science and Engineering has annual revenues of $1.5 million, and 16 full- and part-time employees. Mr. Duffee, who has earned the nickname "Snuffee Duffee" (one of his partners gave him a "Golden Nose" plaque that hangs on his office wall), charges $175 an hour to detect, identify and trace the source of odors.
He was interviewed recently at his offices on Blue Hills Avenue in Bloomfield, having moved there in September from the company's original location on Fish Fry Road in Hartford, which he thought was an appropriate place to start an odor-consulting business. Here are excerpts from that conversation.
Q. How did you discover you had this unusual talent?
A. I don't think I can sniff out odors better than anyone else, I just have a good memory for odors. As a chemistry undergraduate student I found that once I smelled something I could recall what it was that smelled like that. I went through qualitative organic analysis largely on the basis of that. It really isn't that I'm super sensitive, although I am sensitive, but it was my memory for odors that was one of the first things that got me into the business. The other was wanting to use the training I had in chemistry and meteorology.
Q. Do you ruin many cars, clothes or furniture?
A. Not my own usually. I've had incidents where we've stunk up a hotel room. I had to pay for a hotel room for a week while it aired out because one of my people in New York State had taken some samples, had the bag in his room, and one of the bags leaked. We got some angry calls about that one. Clothes -- I've thrown away a lot of clothes and shoes because it's not worth trying to get the odor out. And we've turned in some rental cars that I probably wouldn't want to get into after we get through with them.
Q. Are there state or Federal regulations governing odor?
A. There are no Federal regulations on odor whatsoever. There are some at the state level. Some states, including Connecticut, allow seven times the threshold -- in other words, it takes seven volumes of odor-free air to dilute one volume of ambient air to its odor threshold.
Q. How difficult is it to track an odor?
A. That's not that difficult, necessarily. It's a combination of understanding the smell and its dispersion in the atmosphere -- that's where my meteorology training comes in. I start from the outside and move in toward the problem.
I remember one time going to a cellophane-rayon plant, and they put out large amounts of carbon disulfide and hydrogen sulfide. Hydrogen sulfide smells like rotten eggs and carbon disulfide has sort of a medicinal smell. People were sure it was the hydrogen sulfide they smelled. They were getting complaints 20 miles away. So I went 20 miles away and, sure enough, I smelled it, but it wasn't hydrogen sulfide. And it wasn't carbon disulfide.
So we began to analyze the components, separating them and we found out it was carbonile sulfide. The carbon disulfide was oxidizing in the atmosphere, and the carbonile sulfide was giving this burnt gunpowder smell. If they'd put controls on the hydrogen disulfide it wouldn't have done much.
Q. What can be done to control a specific odor once you have identified the cause?
A. Most odor-control techniques are broad scale. If you're going to use incineration you're going to get rid of all odors. If you're going to use carbon absorption, you're going to get rid of most odors. If you're going to use scrubbing, that gets more chemical specific. The ideal way to control odor though is, don't release it in the first place. If you can find the chemical in the process that's causing the problem, and you can replace it, you've solved the problem.
Q. How scientific is odor detection?
A. The sensation of odor has four properties, two we can measure. One we just described, and one is totally subjective. The one we described is what we call the odor character, it smells like a skunk, a lemon, or whatever.
There's the intensity: How strong is the odor? To do that we compare the odor with standardized concentrations of butanol, an alcohol with a slightly sweet, slightly rancid odor.
The other one that is used to quantify odor is what we call pervasiveness, or detectability. You measure that by determining how many volumes of clean air it takes to reduce that odor to its detection threshold, the point at which you can't smell it anymore.
The fourth property is called hedonic tone, the degree of pleasantness or unpleasantness. What you consider pleasant can be entirely different from what I do.
Q. What's the worst thing you've ever smelled?
A. Until last Easter it was a rendering plant in Iowa. It's the largest dead-stock plant in the world. All they do is process dead animals, mainly hogs. But 28 million pounds a year of dead animals, with a 250-mile collecting radius. The animal may be dead a day before it's found, and at 250 miles it may be on the truck six hours or more before it gets to the plant. The whole animal goes into a grinder, which can reduce a whole cow to one-inch cubes in about a minute.
They only had one of those grinding machines, and no spare parts, and the thing broke in July. I got there about the middle of August, and I stepped into the receiving area of the plant, and my eyes began to tear from the ammonia.
Last Easter, I was trying to sample a process that produces trimethylamine, which is essence of rotten fish. In strong concentrations it will burn and sting your eyes, it will choke you, because you can't breath. I figured I would bleed a little into a bag, but the pipe was under a lot more pressure than the gauge said, and the bag popped off, and I'm standing in a stream of pure trimethylamine. I'm trying to shut the valve, my eyes are streaming, and I thought I was going to die.
I got my samples, and I went back to the office, and my office manager said, "Oh, you reek. Get out of here." I went home, and my wife threw me out. A few days later, I'm at choir practice Saturday night, and something stinks. I look down and I'm wearing the shoes I wore that day! I had to put them outside.
Q. Are you concerned that high technology is going to replace the nose as the odor tracker?
A. Oh, we've got a long way to go before that happens. For 35 years we've been trying to develop an instrument that would measure odor like we measure light or sound. And we're not much closer now than we were when we started. We don't really understand in detail how we perceive odors, although we understand a lot better now than we did then.
Q. Is the odor-tracking business affected by the economy?
A. It's been affected. The beginning of this year was probably the slowest time we've had, although slow for us is not really slow. People are concerned about odor. They think if they smell something it's going to have an effect on their health. And I think people are less tolerant of odor than they used to be. I think about the mid-1970s, or even a little earlier, the Environmental Protection Agency was creating an awareness of the problem through the Clean Air Act and got people worried about the health effects of the environment. Since then our business has been very strong, it's never really had a down period.
Q. Who typically hires you?
A. Mostly it's an industrial firm that is alleged to be causing an odor problem, or over the last five years, waste-water treatment plants and composting operations operated by municipalities. But until recently it was almost all industrial customers. I do all of General Motors's work. The first study I ever did for General Motors was when they had a new truck plant. There were 128 stacks on this roof. Everybody at the plant thought it was emissions from the paint process, but it wasn't. It was coming from the primer. If I can identify the specific source, I can save the customer money.
Q. Have you ever been really stumped by an odor?
A. From time to time. There's an indoor air-quality problem up in Braintree, Mass. Twin office buildings, built about 1988, identical in every way. One of them, no problems. The other one, on the fourth floor, from the time people moved in, you've got a kind of a rancid odor. We were called in a few months ago to look at it, and we determined it has to be the air-conditioning system in that area. It's not the fresh air intakes. We've done biological work, but nothing there. Chemical evaluations, but nothing out of the ordinary chemically. But you sure can smell it.
What we've done is put in a carbon-absorption system, but that treats the symptoms, not the problems. We're darned if we can figure out what that odor is.
Q. What's your favorite smell?
A: Chocolate, I guess. But I've worked in areas where they are complaining about it, in Hershey, Pa., and San Francisco, near Ghiardelli's.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard A. Duffee, a founder and an owner of Odor Science and Engineering, an international consulting company. (Steve Miller for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (78%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: ODOR SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING (CO) BATTELLE MEMORIAL INSTITUTE (69%); BOSTON COLLEGE (56%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); BOSTON COLLEGE (56%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ODOR SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING (CO) BOSTON COLLEGE (56%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); BOSTON COLLEGE (56%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BLOOMFIELD (CONN) UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%); BOSTON, MA, USA (78%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: ODORS INDOOR AIR QUALITY (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); CHEMISTRY (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (78%); METEOROLOGY (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PSYCHOLOGY (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (72%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, ROBERT A; DUFFEE, RICHARD (SNUFFY) RICHARD A DUFFEE (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



860 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 6; Page 40; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 4931 words

HEADLINE: Al Gore's Double Life

BYLINE: By Alex S. Jones; Alex S. Jones, who won a Pulitzer Prize for reporting in 1987, left The New York Times this month to begin work with his wife, Susan E. Tifft, on a biography of the Ochs-Sulzberger family.

 BODY:
On a balmy August night in Waco, Tex., as moths swarm around the floodlights above a sea of banner-waving Democrats, Al Gore is on a stem-winding, give-'em-hell roll. Standing in shirt sleeves on an improvised stage, Gore whips the assembled thousands hard as he charges the Bush Administration with ruining the economy. "What time is it?" he yells, echoing the rhetorical flourish he first used during his acceptance speech at the Democratic National Convention. Waving his arms like an orchestra leader, he leads the crowd in a shouting, chanting denunciation of George Bush and Dan Quayle: "It's time for them to go!"
And then, after the slight pause of a speaker who knows how to connect with his audience, Gore moves to the meat of his message: "Do you have the courage to change?" he cries, punching the air as sweat pours off him. "You have to have the courage to change. You have to reach out for something different."
It is a good night for Gore, who seems entirely at home with this rural, blue-collar crowd. And yet, the next morning, a very different Gore is on display. Standing beside Bill Clinton at an impromptu news conference at a power station outside Waco, Gore looks wooden and startlingly aloof; his arms dangle awkwardly like a department store mannequin, and his demeanor is so icily serious that he could easily pass for a Secret Service agent. 
 When Gore's turn comes at the microphone, he seems a world away from the effortlessly eloquent and persuasive politician of last night's rally. His voice slows, as though he were speaking to an audience that was a little dim. His tone sounds preachy, ultra-earnest, like a man who wants desperately to be believed, but is not really sure how. "George Bush and Dan Quayle taking credit for a clean environment is like a weatherman taking credit for a sunny day and then looking for another four-year contract," he stiffly tells the campaign press corps, sounding more like a professor than a candidate on the stump.
After the news conference, several reporters can be heard muttering that, like a campaign version of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, it is hard to be sure which of the two Al Gores is going to appear: the relaxed, open, even fiery Gore, who has emerged in recent years, or the self-conscious, distant introvert who seems to live behind a Plexiglas shield that even close friends cannot fully penetrate.
It is oddly endearing for a politician of Gore's stature to be handicapped by what is, in part, a problem of communication. But, as Gore himself explains, on these stiff occasions he cannot hear the remoteness in his own voice; he is tone-deaf to his own flat notes. Perhaps it is because Gore has lived so many years inside his own head that he does not hear the music of speech the way more extroverted personalities, like Bill Clinton, Ronald Reagan and the majority of other politicians, do.
People who know Gore well almost always say the same thing in describing him: he is a lot more complicated than he seems. A straight arrow who, by his own admission, smoked marijuana for years, a deeply religious man who does not hesitate to go for the political jugular -- as he proved in his opening statement at the Vice-Presidential debate -- Gore is clearly a man of different parts. According to his wife, Tipper, who has a master's degree in psychology from George Peabody College in Nashville, Gore is, even now, as a candidate for high office, in the process of integrating the contradictory sides of his personality.
Out on the campaign trail, the personality switches can be jarring. For instance, riding on his campaign bus down a Texas highway, there is the Gore who does not hesitate to indulge his taste in cheerfully vulgar humor. "Look at this, Dad," says his 19-year-old daughter, Karenna, as she slaps a supermarket tabloid in front of her father. Gore glances at the tabloid and giggling like a high-school kid, gives a dramatic reading of the sad saga of "the gassy granny," a German grandmother who had been so embarrassed by a burst of flatulence in church that she jumped off a cliff.
But a few weeks later in Kennebunkport, Me., a different Gore shows up at a fund-raising event -- a distant, awkward candidate who gives a perfunctory speech and seems to wish he were elsewhere. "You could see the lips pursing," said Ralph Hall, executive editor of The York County Coast Star in Kennebunk and an old friend of Gore's.
GORE ALLOWS that he is sometimes out of sync with those around him. He says he is a man whose natural inclination is to deal with the world intellectually, who likes nothing better than to withdraw into himself and think his way through a problem. His reputation in Washington has been that of a technology and public-policy wonk. Now he is firmly pushing himself to become a more sentient being, a man not afraid to put his emotions in full public view.
Indeed, few other candidates for high office have gone so far as the 44-year-old Gore in placing their psyches on display. In his best-selling book, "Earth in the Balance: Ecology and the Human Spirit," the Senator describes having "to look inside myself and confront some difficult and painful questions about what I am really seeking in my own life, and why."
Gore had found in what he calls "the global environmental crisis" a metaphor for his own unrest, "an inner crisis that is," he writes, "for lack of a better word, spiritual." He browbeats himself equally for his failure to live an environmentally responsible life (e.g. using his car's chlorofluorocarbon-spewing air-conditioner on the way to make a speech about how CFC's should be banned) and for more personal failings ("my own tendency to put a finger to the political winds and proceed cautiously"). And he pledges that he will no longer be party to "the failures of candor, evasions of responsibility and timidity of vision that characterize too many of us in government."
But Gore is still clearly torn between his idealism and political pragmatism. During the campaign, Vice President Quayle, among others, has attacked him as an "environmental extremist." Gore says that he recants "not a single word" of his aggressive environmental program. But he also concedes that he has had to soft-pedal some environmental proposals, like his call for stringent fuel-efficiency standards, in places like Michigan. Gore says that while the environment is still the centerpiece of his personal campaign message, his larger objective is to do all he can to help Bill Clinton win the election.
"The pressures of a campaign are different from the pressures of serving in office," he says. "I have to admit that knowing what national campaigns are like, I might well have been more vulnerable to the timidity that these national campaigns demand of a candidate, but I like to think I would have written exactly the same book."
MANY AMERICANS, WHO HAD formed their dominant impressions of Gore during his disappointing run for the Presidency in 1988, were introduced to the other Gore in July at the convention. Speaking in front of projected images of his 9-year-old son, Albert 3d, he described the opening day of the baseball season in 1989, when he thought his son had been killed. "I want to tell you this straight from my heart," Gore said. "That experience changed me forever."
Outside Memorial Stadium in Baltimore after the game, Albert had darted in front of a car and been knocked 30 feet in the air, then dragged across the pavement for 20 feet more. By the time his father got to him, he was lying in a gutter without pulse or breath; his eyes were open in what Gore described in the speech as "the empty stare of death."
As Gore held his son, he was plunged into a grief so immeasurable and despairing as to be fathomable only to those who have lost a small child. More than three years after that afternoon, during an interview, he involuntarily flinches as though hit in the stomach upon hearing the story of another little boy who had not been so lucky as Albert, who has now fully recovered.
After the convention speech, some critics suggested Gore had traded on his son's pain and a private family issue to further his own political ambitions, especially when he compared the resurrection of the Democratic Party to the recovery of his wounded son. But the Gores remain unapologetic. "That happened to us, in public, and we dealt with it in public," Tipper Gore says. "We kept as much private as we could, but it's become a part of our lives, and it's part of who we are and very much a part of who Al is, and I think that it was courageous of him to reveal that. He's very much a different person in many ways because of that trauma, and if you want to know him, you have to know what happened."
Although Gore describes his son's accident as the catalyst, the ground had been well prepared for another side of his personality to emerge. In 1984, he had been cast into a depression by the death of his sister, Nancy, his only sibling, from lung cancer. Nancy, who was 10 years older, had been protective of him, and she had been heavily involved in his four Congressional campaigns, as well his successful run for the Senate in 1984 (she died without ever knowing he had won).
Four years later, Gore's dismal performance in the Presidential race came as a cruel shock to a man who had lived, by and large, a charmed life. With his clean-cut good looks, Harvard education and impressive pedigree as the son of a famous United States Senator, Gore had rarely encountered doors that were closed to him. "I had just lost a Presidential election, having given it everything that I had, and encountered the limits of my capacity to persuade people of policies I felt so deeply needed to be followed," he recalls.
After the voters spurned him, Gore had thrown himself with his usual obsessiveness into studying the environment, an issue he had become interested in soon after entering the House of Representatives. Soon he had resumed his normal frenetic pace of meetings, hearings, luncheons and preparations for another possible run for the Presidency.
But then came his son's accident. Immediately Gore canceled his entire calendar, and he and Tipper spent the next month at Albert's side at Johns Hopkins Children's Center in Baltimore. "All these things that had loomed so large, not only in my daily life, but in my whole set of priorities, all of a sudden didn't amount to a hill of beans," Gore says.
And surprisingly, Gore found himself a little less disconnected from the world. "There was an outpouring of empathy and compassion from people I didn't know, from people I did know but didn't really know -- people who ran the elevators at the Capitol and the subway car from the Senate Office Building to the Capitol, police officers, janitors, secretaries, staff in the Senate. People who I suddenly came to understand had, in many cases, gone through experiences worse than the one my family had gone through and were carrying these heavy burdens in their hearts, without giving any indication outwardly that I had picked up -- partly because I wasn't paying attention."
For a man who had always kept much of his emotional life tightly contained, the public suffering of his family became a release. For the first time, he allowed his feelings of vulnerability to come out, and, as he recounts it, the explorations of those feelings gradually expanded into reconsideration of his entire life. In the months that followed, Gore began work on "Earth in the Balance," writing it himself at night in his parents' Capitol Hill apartment.
In the summer of 1991, Gore announced that he would not enter the race for the Presidential nomination. "I would like to be President," he said in a statement, "but I am also a father, and I feel deeply about my responsibility to my children." While Gore insists that he was thinking solely of the needs of his family in the aftermath of his son's ordeal, skeptics contend that he may also have been thinking about President Bush's huge popularity from the gulf war. Around the same time, a number of Democrats considered leading candidates for the nomination, including Lloyd Bentsen, Richard Gephardt and Jay Rockefeller, had also decided not to run.
This May, Warren Christopher, a lawyer with long experience in Democratic politics who was heading up Clinton's Vice-Presidential search committee, met with Gore to sound him out about who he thought would be good for the ticket. "We talked for nearly an hour," Christopher recalls, and Gore spoke enthusiastically about a number of possible candidates. Christopher says that only in the last two or three minutes of the conversation did he ask about Gore's own interest. "It was a very guarded, reluctant response, and he said that was something he would have to think about for a long time," Christopher says. But Gore did not rule it out.
A month later, Christopher called Gore in Rio de Janeiro, where the Senator was issuing daily attacks at the Earth Summit on the Bush Administration's environmental policies. Christopher wanted to know if Gore would be willing to place his name on a short list for the nomination. Gore told him he would let him know the following day. As far as Gore was concerned, his son and entire family had healed considerably during the year he had spent not running for the Presidency. "I thought about it," Gore says, "and I reframed the question to take the personal ambition part out of it, because I didn't want to do it in that sense. I didn't expect it. I didn't seek it. When I said yes, the question to which I answered yes was, 'Were you willing to give your country a better chance to change?' -- not 'Do you want to run for Vice President?' "
And how would he respond to those who might roll their eyes at such high-mindedness?
"Well, I don't care," Gore replies without hesitation.
WHEN GORE'S FATHER, the 84-year-old former United States Senator Albert Gore Sr., learned that Bill Clinton had chosen his son to be the nominee for Vice President, he told a reporter, "We raised him for it." This is in part true. But Al Gore's upbringing -- and the expectations that came with it -- have also been an obstacle to his political achievements. Which may be why Gore resents the suggestion that he was ever put in early training for a political career.
"That's not true," Gore responds heatedly when confronted with his father's remark. "When I was growing up, I don't ever remember a time when either of my parents said: 'Don't you want to go into politics? Don't you think you would like to do this or that.' I don't ever remember a time."
Despite protestations that his childhood was normal, Gore seemed to grow up much faster than most of his peers. "When I talked with him, I almost had to look at him to see whether I was talking to a child or an adult," recalls Eleanor Smotherman, Gore's second-grade teacher in Carthage.
One reason for Gore's accelerated maturity may have been that throughout his childhood, he lived in two worlds that could hardly have been more different. As the son of a prominent senator, Gore spent half of each year in the Fairfax Hotel on Massachusetts Avenue in Washington. The Fairfax, now the Ritz-Carlton, was then mainly a residential hotel and was owned by a Gore relative. When Gore was growing up in the 50's, his father and mother, Pauline, were at the center of the capital's high society. Big things were expected of the elder Gore, who was a serious contender for the Democratic Vice-Presidential nomination in 1956.
During holidays and Congressional recesses in the summer, Senator and Mrs. Gore returned to Tennessee and, as an inseparable team, spent most of their time on an endless round of appearances, speeches and constituent fence-mending. Usually, young Al was left in the care of Alota and William Thompson, the tenant farmers who ran the Gores' spread outside Carthage, a small town about 50 miles east of Nashville. In stark contrast to the elegantly appointed Fairfax, the Thompson home had no indoor plumbing and was heated by a single coal-burning fireplace. Al shared a bed with the Thompsons' only child, Gordon.
At the age of 5, when he began living part time with the Thompsons, Gore adopted a pattern he would repeat, instinctively filling a void created by the many absences of his parents. The Thompsons, he found, offered the unconditional love his own parents did not provide. Alota, a nurse, became like a second mother to Al. "She loved him as much as she did me," recalls Gordon, who now lives just down the road from Gore's farm.
Gore, essentially, adopted the Thompsons as a second family, demanding to stay with them whenever his parents were not around. Their home became a kind of emotional citadel, a refuge from the larger world, where great expectations awaited him. Even then, he was entranced by politics. Gordon recalls his friend sitting transfixed in front of the television watching a political convention. "He was real interested in it, and he knew a lot about politics, even when he was small," he says.
When Gore was 13, he found a second surrogate family in the Carthage area. Donna Armistead, who was nearly 16, was the attractive, tomboyish sister of one of Gore's friends. Despite their age difference, Gore was bold enough to invite her to a drive-in movie. Double-dating with her brother, they talked all night in the back seat. The next day, he asked her to see no one else, and she agreed. Their relationship endured throughout Gore's high-school years and, as with the Thompsons, he effectively joined her church-going family.
"What he didn't get from his family he picked up from my own," recalls Armistead, who now works for a Nashville physician. "I guess he kind of got a nurturing that he was lacking."
After spending summers in Carthage with Donna and a group of buddies he'd worked with for years in the corn fields, he returned to Washington each fall to attend St. Albans, one of the nation's most exclusive schools. Armistead remembers that, throughout his high-school years, Gore usually wrote her twice each day and called every Saturday night at 7:30 from St. Albans.
But Gore kept the two worlds he occupied very much separate. Not once did he ever invite Donna Armistead to St. Albans. Indeed, Reed E. Hundt, one of Gore's friends at St. Albans, was not even aware of Armistead's existence. "I never knew about her," he said. And though he developed strong friendships with a tight-knit group his own age who lived near the Gore farm, he rarely talked to them of his Washington life.
At a party around the time of Gore's graduation from St. Albans, he met Mary Elizabeth Aitcheson, known since childhood as Tipper after a favorite nursery rhyme. Tipper, like Donna, was outgoing and warm, but as the private-school-educated granddaughter of a prominent banker, she traveled in a different world. After a few dates, Tipper and Al had already begun talking about how many children they would have. That summer Gore broke off his relationship with Armistead, who a year later burned hundreds of his letters on the eve of her wedding. Though Gore and Tipper did not marry until after college, they have been together ever since that summer 27 years ago.
Despite their apparently traditional marital roles, both Gore and Tipper describe their relationship as a partnership of equals. A child of divorce, Tipper says her broken home, and Gore's political one, made both of them eager for a more stable, conventional family life. She embraces motherhood, and her fierce protective instincts show themselves on the stump. For instance, when Hillary Clinton sagged after a woman reporter demanded to know how her daughter, Chelsea, felt about reports of her father's infidelity, Tipper almost threw her body in front of Hillary to rebuke the reporter for asking such an intrusive question.
Out on the campaign trail, Mrs. Gore is an outspoken feminist who resents being cast as a decorative political wife. A former professional press photographer, she takes pictures at every campaign stop, prompted by a desire to have something to do onstage besides smiling and waving. Indeed, she is one of her husband's closest political advisers.
Tipper Gore is probably best known for her 1987 book, "Raising PG Kids in an X-Rated Society." The book, a parental call to arms against violent and sexually explicit material in rock recordings, prescribes movielike ratings for the record industry. The response was furious. Tipper found herself under attack for advocating censorship -- a charge she denies. Because of the record-labeling campaign, Tipper's image as a prim bluestocking has been hard to live down. Many reporters covering the Gores are surprised to find her smart and tartly funny.
BY HIS OWN ADMISSION, Gore feels deeply ambivalent about the family he grew up in, a family he describes in his book as "determinedly political." His whole life, in fact, can be seen as a series of alternating steps toward and away from his parents -- and all they represented.
Although Gore bought the farm directly across the Caney Fork River from his parents' farm in Carthage, bringing his own children there summer after summer, he has carefully structured his own family to be different from the one in which he grew up. Unlike Gore's mother, who was out campaigning with her husband most of the time, Tipper Gore is only a part-time campaigner, putting her energies into being the mother of three girls and a boy: Karenna, 19, Kristin, 15, Sarah, 13, and Albert, now 10. And when Gore decided to run for his father's old Congressional seat for the first time, he forbade the elder Gore from making even one speech on his behalf.
Albert Gore Sr. was born on a farm near Carthage and lived as a boy on another farm in an area known as Possum Hollow. But after a youth of hardscrabble farming he elected to become a teacher. Eventually he became the Superintendent of Schools and entered politics. An ardent supporter of the New Deal, Gore served in the House from 1939 to 1953 and in the Senate from 1953 to 1970. By his own admission, Senator Gore was a strict disciplinarian with his son. "I was, I won't say stern, but I was an insistent taskmaster," the elder Gore recalls. "He worked and worked hard."
Pauline LaFon was the daughter of a West Tennessee merchant whose general store went bust in the Depression. She worked as a waitress at the Andrew Jackson Hotel coffee shop in Nashville to put herself through Vanderbilt Law School, where she was one of the first female graduates. After briefly practicing law, she married Albert Sr. in 1937. When her husband declared himself for Congress a year later, they left newborn daughter Nancy at home during the day and, in the start of a lifelong tradition, campaigned together.
Although Gore idolized his parents as a child, his prickliness about his father today is apparent. "Al has never wanted to be bossed by his father," says Pauline Gore, Mrs. Gore is sensitive to her son's feelings about being upstaged by his father. At the Democratic convention she had to restrain her husband, who had rushed up on stage after his son's acceptance speech, extending both arms in a gesture of triumph as though he himself had just gotten the Vice-Presidential nomination that had eluded him.
"Pauline pulled my coattail twice," says the elder Gore, "and one of my grandchildren whispered to me, 'Grandpa, I like your shyness.' "
The senior Gore remembers that even at an early age, his son was keenly interested in politics. Albert Sr. recalls a night when he and his wife were about to leave their Fairfax apartment for a formal White House reception. As the couple were leaving, their son, then about 10 years, called out: "Dad, save that outfit. I might need it someday."
But by the time he got to Harvard, Gore thought he would become a writer or, perhaps, a lawyer-journalist, like Fred Graham, who was a close friend of his sister Nancy. He spent one college summer as an office boy at The New York Times, and began returning less frequently to Carthage. He and Tipper, who also went to college in Boston, would talk about making movies, or living by the sea, where she would paint and he would write.
Like millions of those of their generation, the Gores both smoked marijuana. Indeed, during his Presidential bid, Gore announced that, as a college student, he began smoking marijuana, a practice he continued later in the Army and as a reporter at The Tennessean in Nashville. The pre-emptive confession was all but ignored.
Gore was also in sync with his generation in his opposition to the Vietnam war. Yet despite his beliefs, he elected to enlist in the Army after graduation from Harvard in 1969. He feared that avoiding the draft would hurt his father's prospects of being re-elected to the Senate. But he asserts that his main motivation was to insure that no boyhood friend of his from Carthage wound up going in his place.
The Senator's bitter defeat in 1970 was an acute disappointment for his son. Gore had campaigned tirelessly for his father, even posing in his Army uniform for a widely published photograph with Albert Sr. But in one of the first negative television campaigns, Albert Gore's Republican opponent, William E. Brock, was able to turn the tide with blistering attacks on the Senator's opposition to the war and school prayer. Election night, Pauline Gore recalls, was one of the few times she ever saw her son cry.
Two months after the election, Gore was sent to Vietnam, where, thanks to his writing talents, he landed a job as an Army journalist. Ralph Hall, another Army journalist, remembers long discussions with Gore about the war. "We were basically conscientious objectors while in the Army," he says. "But we felt the military was an obligation, even though we disagreed with what was going on."
Gore returned from Vietnam utterly disillusioned with the political process that had engendered the war. "He was more restless," Tipper recalls. He took graduate courses in religion at Vanderbilt to have a place to think through the questions that Vietnam had raised. "I think it was a purification," Tipper says.
He had decided he no longer had any interest in conventional politics. When his parents tried to coax him into attending Democratic Party functions, he declined. While studying religion, he also worked as a reporter at The Tennessean in Nashville. In 1974, he entered Vanderbilt Law School, but continued writing for the newspaper.
Gore had always said his primary reason for getting into journalism was to change things. But he gradually began to believe that real power would come only through holding political office. When John Seigen thaler, The Tennessean's publisher and a major force in state Democratic politics, told Gore the Carthage Congressional seat was up for grabs, he was interested. "It just came home to me that if I was ever going to do it, now was the time," Gore recalls. "Not 10 years from now. Not one week from now. Now." He hung up the phone, turned to Tipper and said, "I think I'm going to run for Congress." And then he immediately dropped to the floor and began doing push-ups to get in shape for the race.
Even Gore's critics acknowledge that he has been, over the last 16 years -- four terms in the House and eightyears in the Senate -- one of the hardest-working people on Capitol Hill. Gore has never forgotten the charge that one reason his father lost was that he suffered from "Potomac Fever," had lost touch with the people he represented. Gore learned that lesson well, and has tried to return to Tennessee most weekends to hold town meetings. (Since 1976, Gore has presided over more than 2,000 such meetings.) "He was a better listener than I was," his father says.
In Washington, Gore proved to be a man in a hurry to attain a position of influence and was soon holding hearings, mostly on toxic waste and other environmental issues. As a former reporter, he had a sharp sense of what made a story, and he got more than his share of headlines, which prompted some resentment in the clubby atmosphere of Congress.
When a group of powerful Democratic fund-raisers urged him to run for the Presidency in 1988, he decided to do it. Today Gore contends that a big part of his motivation for making that race was simply raw ambition for higher office. When he was lambasted in the press for his wooden delivery and tendency to keep his distance from other people, he was hurt and perplexed. His defeat --he withdrew from the race after losing badly in the New York primary -- stunned him.
In this new period of self-examination following his son's accident and the writing of his book, Gore asserts that he has liberated himself from the burdens of the past. He says he is now free to be totally himself -- perhaps an overly optimistic assessment for a professional politician, especially for a front-running candidate for Vice President of the United States. Vice Presidents, after all, are expected to support the policies of their bosses under all circumstances, and Clinton has not embraced all of Gore's environmental positions.
But Gore says one reason he put his environmental ideas -- and his pledge to fight for them -- in black and white was to make sure that he would be embarrassed if he slipped back into overcautiousness. "That's growth," he says. "That's a good thing to do. And if that makes it harder for me to be hypocritical in the future, that's fine."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Despite his privileged upbringing, Gore had to forge his own identity. At age 3 with his mother, father and sister. (Ed Clark/Life Magazine)
(pg. 40); At a rally in Athens, Tex. (Doug Milner for The New York Times)(pg. 41); Al and Tipper Gore at their home in Arlington, Va. When she called for warning stickers on record albums, she was labeled a prim bluestocking. But during the campaign, she has come across as smart and tartly funny. (Photograph by Claudio Edinger/Gamma-Liaison for The New York Times)(pg. 42); When Albert Gore 3d had a serious accident, his parents spent a month at his side. (Photograph by Allan Tannenbaum/Sygma)(pg. 44)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATHENS, GREECE (59%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ATHENS, GREECE (59%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); 

PERSON: GORE, ALBERT JR (SEN); JONES, ALEX S; GORE, ALBERT JR (SEN) (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) AL GORE (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



861 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 7; Page 3; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1871 words

HEADLINE: The Chat of the Chattering Classes

BYLINE: By Joel Conarroe; Joel Conarroe, the author of books about American literature and editor of "Six American Poets," is president of the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation and chairman of the National Book Awards.

 BODY:

DOCTOR CRIMINALE
By Malcolm Bradbury.
344 pp. New York:
Viking. $22. 
 "IN the happening of fire, ask for helps the fireman at the window. Do not evacuate in the lift."
No writer takes more delight than does Malcolm Bradbury in fractured language of any sort. Hence this notice, which the narrator of "Doctor Criminale" spots in a Viennese hotel room. In the author's earlier novel "Rates of Exchange," a linguist named Petworth travels to the Soviet Union, where he is addressed variously as "Pitwit," "Petwurt" and "Pervert," where everyone he meets butchers one language or another ("Oh my English, I wish it was gooder") and where Russian speech is hilariously reduced to a series of made-up words, as in "Burs'ii Proly'anii" (Government bank) or "Prif'sorii Universitayii."
In that 1983 novel (nominated for the Booker Prize), which manages to be funny, gloomy, shrewd and silly all at once, the British Mr. Bradbury also has some good-natured fun at our expense. When Petworth reveals that he has traveled in the States, he is bombarded with questions: "Do they have topless seminars now in the university, the topless physics, the topless mathematics? How is your ego and your id?" Now, a long decade later, seminars are more likely to be canonless than topless, but the irrepressible Mr. Bradbury -- a professor of American studies at the University of East Anglia -- introduces other of our more typical cultural phenomena, with names like Madonna, Schwarzenegger and Quayle. "Doctor Criminale" takes place during a period in which George Bush, not Ronald Reagan, presides over "the golf courses and budget deficits of the United States," a time in which New York has become "the Beirut of the Western world. The streets are filled with gangs and terrorists, the women rage with anger, everyone lives for themselves."
In the course of the narrative this sardonic observer of human foibles casts a cold eye on a number of cultures, including that of Yugoslavia, which is now "not a country, by the way, just lines on the wrong map." The Belgian people go about "their usual lives: eating chocolates, crashing their fine cars and wondering whether Belgium [is] really a country at all." As for French icons, Guy de Maupassant so hated M. Eiffel's controversial erection that he "always dined . . . in its restaurant, because it was the only place in Paris you couldn't see the tower from." Thanks to "the Great Thatcherite Economic Miracle," Britain is "enjoying a deep recession." And in Italy, "when you are an hour late, you are already half an hour early." These and more.
But lest I give the impression that Mr. Bradbury's ambitious novel is a compendium of one- and two-liners, let me hasten to stress that "Doctor Criminale" is an earnest attempt to illuminate the extraordinary historical complexities associated with glasnost and with the difficult emergence of a brand-new Euro-world. The work is structured around the quest, by a young British journalist (or "journo") named Francis Jay, for the truth about an internationally celebrated man of letters, Bazlo Criminale, a walking web of contradictions who embodies key aspects of contemporary history.
The novel opens with a wickedly funny set piece about the Booker Prize ceremonies, at which the finalists are "presented with a leatherbound copy of what proved to be their own books; they looked at them in dismay, having presumably read them already." Despite making a fool of himself at the event, Jay is signed up to do research on Criminale for a television profile, and thus begin his travels to various academic conventions, including the Lausanne International Congress on Erotics in Post-Modern Photography, in search of information about his shadowy subject.
Like Petworth, Francis Jay is an unlikely hero, a tabula rasa with a passport, who acquires wisdom and understanding only gradually in the course of his search, which becomes ineluctably a search for himself. Criminale, for his part, is a charismatic intellectual acrobat with a gift for dignifying any occasion, the Great Thinker of the Age of Glasnost, "a master of the conference lapel badge, a virtuoso of the plenary address." A friend of Kurt Waldheim's with the added dubious distinctions of having advised Walter Ulbricht on human rights and Nicolae Ceausescu on architecture, he is known as "the man who has single-handedly reinvigorated philosophy by writing its epitaph."
With his head in the sky and his feet in the mire, Criminale is, like Paul de Man, a subtle thinker and a flawed human being, a creature of political deceits and betrayals who has learned to swim with the flow and whose history, as a result, is one of contradictions and deceptions. As our narrator, aided by several erotically compliant women, stalks this curious prey, he discovers much to admire and much to disdain, and it is a measure of Mr. Bradbury's artistry that the reader is made to share these responses as the crafty philosopher gradually emerges from the page.
Jay also discovers, with absolute certainty, that things are seldom what they seem and that "the real truth is always a little bit round the corner." His tireless search for this truth -- and for understanding of his own elusive self -- is brilliantly expressed. The book suffers from a talky passage or two, especially in its middle chapters, but it is never less than impressive in its willingness to raise disturbing questions. This is a playful, smart and entertaining work of art with deadly serious underpinnings.
Among the places Jay's researches take him is the Villa Barolo on Lake Cano, run by the Magno Foundation -- clearly the Bellagio Study and Conference Center on Lake Como, administered by the Rockefeller Foundation -- a place where, in Mr. Bradbury's words, "the modern scholar, coming on a Guggenheim or a MacArthur 'Genius' grant, got everything: power showers and jacuzzis, electronic typewriters and computer interfaces, fax facilities to keep inspiration in close contact with the office or home."
Admirers of another fine British novelist-critic will remember that some of the most seductive pages of David Lodge's "Small World" are also set at what is clearly Bellagio. If Mr. Lodge, justly celebrated for deflating academic pretensions and satirizing international congresses, is the laureate of the airlines, Mr. Bradbury is clearly logging some frequent flier miles of his own, and his take on wide-ranging gatherings of self-important pedants, though less consistently genial than his compatriot's, is no less memorable.
Here he is, for example, on a representative convention address "on all those things that cheer thinking spirits up these days -- the end of humanism, the death of the subject, the loss of the great meta-narratives, the disappearance of the self in the age of universal simulacra, the depthlessness of history, the slippage of the referent, the culture of pastiche, the departure of reality, and so on."
Introducing Barolo-Bellagio is possibly Mr. Bradbury's way of tipping his hat to a fellow writer who got there first. Also Lodgian is his introduction of "a very rich Marxist" who analyzes "such things as the films of David Lynch or the rise of the miniskirt," obviously a colleague of the Milanese professor in "Small World" whose Marxist convictions in no way inhibit her indulgence in la dolce vita. Like "Doctor Criminale," too, "Small World" involves a quest, featuring an Irish poet who flies from conference to conference in pursuit of a maddeningly evasive prey.
Mr. Bradbury also pays implicit homage to a writer who has had a major influence on his linguistic pyrotechnics. One of the nubile women who accompany Jay on his travels is named Ildiko Hazy, a fictional sister to Dolores Haze, a k a Lolita. Other characters have inventive monikers as well -- Otto Codicil, Sandor Hollo, Massimo Monza and the Misses Belli and Uccello, not to mention Bazlo Criminale himself. It is mainly in such wordplay that the author's debt to "Vladimir Nabokov -- God bless him" is apparent, as in a reference to "the chattering classes, who chatted the chat the chattering classes like to chatter when they are just chatting." Sprayed with Egoiste in a departure lounge, Jay responds, "If Chanel want to sell perfumes in airports, why don't they make one called Terminal Depression?" The book is full, too, of little multilingual jokes: "Lavinia took me by the hand, to the strains of 'La ci darem la mano.' "
Clever names and Mozartian allusions aren't necessarily designed to win over readers addicted to easy listenin'. Mr. Bradbury obviously intends his ironic observations to be savored by a fairly sophisticated audience. It's not everyone who will stay the course with a work that introduces such questions as "whether Nietzsche's umbrella was, as Derrida argued, a hermeneutic device, or whether it was a thing that stopped him getting wet when it rained." For readers who like this sort of literate prose, though, "Doctor Criminale" offers a nourishing feast. It is greatly to Mr. Bradbury's credit that a work showing how skim milk tends to masquerade as cream is itself the real thing, creme de la creme de la creme.
 

 
BAD EGGHEADS
 Whence came Dr. Bazlo Criminale? Malcolm Bradbury, his creator, attests to a longstanding interest in the idea of the "tainted intellectual," the person who stands for contemporary thought but possesses some flaw in his history. "We've had many such figures," he said, "from Heidegger to Paul de Man. I am interested in such people and in how their situations arose in the first place. We very often approach them innocently and assume their integrity is easily come by." His enigmatic character's origins may well fuel international literary parlor games.
In a telephone interview from his farm in Norfolk, England (he claims to be one of very few British novelists to own a combine harvester), Mr. Bradbury continued: "The book is simultaneously a comedy and a serious comment on an ethical and political situation. I've tried to mix two voices, really. One matter is the comedy which produces the story of the innocent young man amidst difficult things which he cannot understand; the other is the story of a man who has been struggling through history and who has committed certain moral crimes but at the same time emerges with, I hope, a certain dignity."
The name Criminale, the author confides, "first caught my eye on a storefront in northern Italy, and it seemed exactly right. The idea had come before and arose from other things, from men like Brecht and Lukacs, the Hungarian philosopher. I've traveled a lot in Eastern Europe and began to realize that a certain kind of intellectual or philosopher succeeded in these Communist cultures only if he had also been extremely cunning as well."
Mr. Bradbury, who is 60 years old, believes that the young man in the novel "must come to some sort of understanding that the generation before him is actually mired in history. In the contemporary view of morality and identity," he said, "without a strong sense of self you have no ethical center for your life, and it's very difficult to stand up to history." -- LYNN KARPEN

GRAPHIC: Photo: Malcolm Bradbury. (Jerry Bauer/Viking)
 
Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: DOCTOR CRIMINALE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (77%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); BELGIUM (58%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (77%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); BELGIUM (58%); PARIS, FRANCE (77%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); RESTAURANTS (71%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (70%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (67%); BUDGETS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); RECESSION (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); GOLF (62%); EXCHANGE RATES (56%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (53%); TERRORISM (50%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: CONARROE, JOEL; BRADBURY, MALCOLM GEORGE W BUSH (52%); RONALD REAGAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



862 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1536 words

HEADLINE: All About/Sports Stadiums;
It's Boom Time for the Playing Fields Across the Country

BYLINE: By STEVEN J. VIUKER; Steven J. Viuker, a freelancer in New York, writes about the business of sports.

 BODY:
So maybe consumers are not buying a whole lot of cars. And, yes, businesses have cut back on first-class airline tickets and four-star lunches. But there is at least one area of conspicuous spending in these recessionary times: sports stadiums.
Domes, parks, yards and coliseums (few seem to be called stadiums or arenas anymore) are being built or remodeled across North America at a pace not seen in two decades. 
 Among the cities with new stadiums just opened or in the works are Atlanta, Baltimore, Cleveland, San Antonio and San Jose. In New York, Madison Square Garden recently completed a $200 million face lift.
These stadiums are put together in far different ways than their elder counterparts. Many are being financed through partnerships of local governments, sports teams and private corporations. Sometimes money comes from lotteries, instead of the usual bond issues and tax increases.
They also have many more luxurious corporate boxes and other amenities nestled inside. And several are being built in downtown areas, not in the suburbs miles away.
 
Building a Complex
Financing Through Partnerships
 The recent success of two downtown stadiums -- Camden Yards in Baltimore, which opened in April at a cost of $104.5 million, and the $500 million Skydome in Toronto, which opened in September 1989 -- seem to have inspired other cities.
"Toronto built Skydome," said Bill Dorsey, publisher of Skybox magazine, a sports business publication based in Cincinnati. "The Blue Jays became winners and almost four million fans paid to see them. Suddenly, Toronto was on the major league map."
Especially in prosperous times, cities were happy to bear all the costs of construction and upkeep of stadiums. Small and medium-size cities built stadiums to attract teams, seeking the big-city aura conferred by a major-league franchise.
Those expectations still often prevail, of course, though sometimes a field of dreams can turn into a house of nightmare. That seems to be the case with the Suncoast Dome in St. Petersburg, Fla. Opened in January 1991 at a cost of $140 million, the Suncoast is usually dark, save for an occasional concert or hockey game. Debt has risen to $262 million from $116 million because the city has failed to get a major league franchise it thought the stadium would be sure to attract.
So far, Suncoast has been used mainly as a threat by teams like the Chicago White Sox and San Francisco Giants seeking new stadiums or more favorable treatment.
Not so in Baltimore, where the Orioles had played in Memorial Stadium, in a suburb, since 1954. "The move to Camden Yards has increased attendance and allowed the fans to enjoy the city," said Jon Miller, an announcer for the Orioles and for the ESPN cable sports channel. "They'll arrive at the park, either by car or train, have dinner and then go to the game."
Cleveland is hoping to go Baltimore one better with its ambitious Gateway Complex. The $362 million project will have a 21,000-seat arena for basketball and musical shows and a 42,500-seat football stadium. Both are scheduled to open in 1994.
City officials say Gateway, a 50-50 public-private venture, will be the linchpin for the revitalization of downtown Cleveland. The city managed to persuade the Gund brothers, owners of the Cavaliers basketball team, to abandon suburban Richfield Coliseum, which they own, for the new downtown arena.
Even financially strapped cities no longer must concede losing a franchise.
"As with Baltimore, Cleveland and the new Georgia Dome," said Mitchell Ziets of Public Financial Management, a financial consulting firm based in Philadelphia, "new stadiums can be built largely with money from a dedicated revenue stream." That might take the form of a special lottery, equity from corporations or leases on luxury suites, in the place of bonds and taxes.
While the average fan may grouse about the corporate elite sitting in their air-conditioned boxes with television sets and private bars, they might as well get used to it, said Mr. Dorsey, whose Skybox magazine is distributed in luxury suites.
"It is those luxury seats that help pay the salaries of the players, keep seat prices lower and indeed help to build the facility," he said.
With its recent makeover, Madison Square Garden, which is owned by Paramount Communications, yanked out many lower-priced seats and replaced them with luxury boxes. At $140,000 to $190,000 a year, those 88 skyboxes will open the spigot of lease revenue to $15 million a year, from $2 million before.
The Georgia Dome in Atlanta is paying off its construction debt partly with revenues from more than 200 luxury suites located on three levels around the football stadium. The suites, ranging in price from $20,000 to $120,000 a year, have been snapped up by Coca-Cola and other corporations.
A suite's appointments make leasing one to watch a basketball game seem akin to chartering a yacht just to go fishing. Seating up to 20 people, the boxes are crammed with a bar, carpeting, mirrored walls, TV's, refrigerator, bathroom, closet, telephone and a lot more. When hot dogs just won't do, full-course meals can be catered.
 
Leasing Luxury
The Comfort of the Suites
 Companies that lease suites have access to additional services, like a concierge and business center with office equipment and meeting rooms. Some of the lease payments and other costs are tax deductible as business expenses.
Those kinds of features appealed to Tom O'Donnell, chief executive of McDonald Company Securities in Cleveland. His company has signed 10-year leases for boxes in both the Gateway arena and football stadium.
"Ours is a relationship business," Mr. O'Donnell said, "and a loge is a great way to entertain our clients. Our company now is just minutes away from the downtown complex. I believe these luxury suites will eventually be the hottest ticket in town."
Emerging as a leader in providing financing for the new stadiums is the San Francisco branch of Fuji Bank Ltd. Its sport finance group, started in 1988, has been involved in the Arco arena in Sacramento, Calif., America West arena in Phoenix, Gateway Complex in Cleveland, Kiel Center in St. Louis and Tampa Coliseum in Florida.
Working with the bank, Prudential Insurance Company has underwritten some of the arenas as well.
Fuji executives say they have eagerly backed private investments in sports arenas because they saw an opportunity to make money as public tax support diminished. They also say they like the idea of the new sources of profit available to team owners from luxury boxes and even restaurants and hotels built as part of a sports complex.
One of the nation's largest design firms, Ellerbe Becket Inc., of Kansas City, Mo., worked on many of the new projects, as has the Turner Construction Company of New York.
Ernst & Young, through its sports and entertainment group, has been kept busy conducting feasibility studies for cities and investors considering new stadiums.
But not everyone thinks the new wave of fancy arenas is all for the better. "Can you tell me," said Stan Fischler, a sports historian and author, "that the new Madison Square Garden equals the old in terms of charm and intimacy? Or that you can duplicate a Chicago Stadium or Montreal Forum?"
Nostalgia aside, a theory is rising about a correlation between improved team performance and a new stadium. Toronto, after all, did make it to its first World Series this month. But that's another story.

 
 
ROOTING FOR A HOME TOWN
 Now more than ever, team owners fret over their profit percentages as much as their winning percentages. Those who think they are not getting their fair share of revenue, often threaten to move to a more financially accommodating city.
And when teams consider a change in venue, their home towns start worrying. That was the case with Arlington, Tex., when the Texas Rangers baseball team contemplated moving in 1989. While the city was studying the feasibility of building a new stadium, a group of investors tried to move the team to the Dallas-Fort Worth area, about an hour's drive away.
At stake: $100 million or so that the Rangers brought yearly to Arlington's economy.
After a lot of give and take, the Rangers announced that they could not bear the thought of leaving their beloved Arlington and made a 40-year commitment to stay.
For its part, Arlington promised to build a $165 million sports complex with a 50,000-seat open stadium, to be completed in 1994. The stadium will be linked to the adjacent Six Flags amusement park.
The Rangers are providing 75 acres of land, the city is providing 8 acres.
To enhance profits, the Rangers will get a share of revenue from luxury box leases, in addition to the usual ticket and concession sales.
For the pleasure of keeping their big-league baseball team, even if they never go to a single game, Arlington residents will see their sales tax rise by half a cent.
Jerry Gorman, national director of Ernst & Young's sports consulting practice, said the three legs of the Arlington Stadium deal -- the franchise, the local government and the public -- was the pattern for future stadium financing.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 8, 1992, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, the "All About" column on Oct. 25, about sports stadiums being built around the nation, referred incorrectly to a new one in Cleveland. It will be used for baseball, not football.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Boxes in the Gateway Complex in Cleveland and in Atlanta's Georgia Dome, where prices for suites will range from $20,000 to $120,000 a year; The $210 million Georgia Dome in Atlanta can seat 80,000 people in its arena and stadium. (Aerial Innovations of Georgia)
 
Table: "Fitting In More Fans," shows new sports complexes under construction in other cities, their capacity, estimated cost and estimated date of completion. (Source: Association of Luxury Suite Directors)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (92%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (88%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER INC (57%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK (57%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP (57%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN LP (57%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (54%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TORONTO BLUE JAYS (54%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CAMDEN YARDS (MD); SKY DOME (TORONTO, ONT) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (92%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (88%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; INDUSTRY PROFILES; STADIUMS STADIUMS & ARENAS (96%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS BUSINESS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); BASEBALL (89%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); SUBURBS (73%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (72%); CITIES (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); BONDS (71%); BOND ISSUES (68%); CABLE TELEVISION (60%); 

PERSON: VIUKER, STEVEN J

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



863 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 15; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: NORTHEAST NOTEBOOK: Hopkinton, R.I.;
Work to Start On Golf Resort

BYLINE: By Elizabeth Abbott

 BODY:
WITH hopes of turning this rural town of 6,900 residents into a golf resort that will attract thousands of tourists, a development partnership plans to break ground next month on a $7.5 million, 18-hole golf course.
Brae Bern Limited Partnership also plans to build a 200-room hotel, a conference center and 165 units of housing around the golf course, according to Hal Henry, Brae Bern's general partner. The project is backed by the State of Rhode Island, which is providing the developers with loan guarantees. 
 "The concept is, let's build a quality golf course in Rhode Island with an eye toward creating another Hilton Head," Mr. Henry said, referring to the resort island in South Carolina. New England has some 4.5 million golfers and Rhode Island has no destination golf resort, Mr. Henry said.
The course, not yet named, will be just off Interstate 95, Mr. Henry said, "We are a 75-minute drive for 7.5 million people and a tank of gas away for 25 million."
Designed by Philip Wogan of Topsfield, Mass., the course is being built by Corcoran & Jennison Builders of Braintree, Mass. It should be ready for play by the spring of 1994, Mr. Henry said.
Brae Bern Limited Partnership is contributing $2 million to the project. The remaining $5.5 million will be raised through the sale of bonds, Mr. Henry said. The state has agreed to guarantee $5 million of the built-out project.
"Without the state's guarantee, I don't think we could have put the financing deal together," Mr. Henry said.
The cost of the entire development, including the hotel, conference center and housing, is expected to reach $55 million. Mr. Henry said another marketing study suggested he should hold off on the rest of the project until he developed a market for the golf course and until the economy improved. But the opening in February of a casino in Ledyard, Conn., six miles from the project site, which is drawing 15,000 people a day, has persuaded him to move ahead with the rest of the project now. Mr. Henry said he was talking to major hotel chains about a possible joint venture and hopes to announce a groundbreaking on the hotel sometime next year.
State officials said the Hopkinton development fits neatly into their plans to help tourism industry, the state's third largest after health care and jewelry manufacturing.
The 43-square-mile Hopkinton borders Connecticut on the west and is about 15 miles inland from Rhode Island's beaches in the area of Rhode Island known as South County. Interstate 95 cuts through the center of the town, which has a handful of businesses employing more than 100 people, but is primarily residential.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: HILTON HEAD, SC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BRAE BERN LTD PARTNERSHIP (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HOPKINTON (RI) UNITED STATES (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); HILTON HEAD, SC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GOLF GOLF (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESORTS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TOURISM (78%); LODGING (78%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (78%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (78%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (78%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); JOINT VENTURES (73%); BEACHES (73%); TRENDS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MFG (50%); 

PERSON: HAL HENRY (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1992



864 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-9
 
TUG OF WAR WITH THE MAFIA
A priest in Palermo, Sicily, is pulling hard for alternatives in a one-man crusade to keep children from the lures of organized crime. A3
 
SERBS BAR THE ROAD TO ZAGREB
In a setback to the Yugoslav Prime Minister's hopes of improving ties with Croatia, militant Serbs blocked a symbolic reopening of the highway linking Belgrade with Zagreb. A9 

A DIVIDED CANADA
For opposite reasons, two farmers near the border between Ontario and Quebec will vote "no" today in a referendum on an accord intended to preserve Canadian unity. Their positions reflect the tensions that threaten Canadian unity. A6
 
KILLINGS IN SOUTH AFRICA
Gunmen fired into a crowd attending a Zulu ceremony in South Africa, killing at least 20 people. The attack fits into a violent pattern in Natal Province, a center of the struggle between the Zulu-based political organization Inkatha and the African National Congress. A8
 
RABIN REITERATES GOLAN STANCE
Prime Minister Rabin repeated to his Cabinet that Israel would not completely pull back from the Golan Heights even though it has raised the possibility of withdrawal in negotiations with Syria. A9
 
SPAIN'S PENSIVE CROWD-PLEASER
As Prime Minister Gonzalez prepared to mark his 10th year in office, he meditated on a question unusual for a man who is still his country's most popular politician: Was it time for him to step down? A7
 
El Alamein Journal: Recalling the hellish push through Axis lines. A4
 
Rebels in Tajikistan appear to be staging a retreat. A7
 
National A11-15, B8
 
PEROT EXPLAINS DEPARTURE
Perot told interviewers that he withdrew from the race in July after hearing that the Bush campaign was scheming to smear his daughter and disrupt her wedding. A1
 
INDEPENDENT IS A FORCE AGAIN
Thus the 1992 Presidential campaign is ending as it began, as strategists in both major parties try to quantify, defuse or take advantage of Perot's mercurial candidacy. A1
 
Perot has shown a pattern of espousing elaborate conspiracies. A12
 
Perot hit the trail for the first time since rejoining the race. A13
 
An abortion-rights advocate finds an unexpected ally in Stockdale. A13
 
Bush has settled on a succinct message of trust and taxes. A14
 
Clinton called the race "a battle for the spirit of America." A14
 
Bush's aides sense that this is a moment of uncertainty. A14
 
SCIENTISTS PROTEST MOVE ON AIDS
The Government's top scientists are protesting a decision by Congress to bypass medical researchers and approve $20 million for human trials of an experimental AIDS vaccine. A1
 
A CRISIS AT G.M.
General Motors is paralyzed by a crisis in its top management fed by predictions that Robert C. Stempel, the chairman, is on the verge of being pushed out by G.M. directors tired of gushing red ink. The situation has left employees confused about who is in command. A1
 
SCHOOL CHOICE IS CRITICIZED
A new report said that school choice primarily benefits children of better-educated parents, does not necessarily improve student performance, and may widen the gap between rich and poor districts. A1
 
GOVERNORS' RACES LOOK SIMILAR
The 12 states electing governors share not just the unpredictable politics of a Presidential year, but budget problems and voters concerned about the economy. A10
 
SENATOR RENEWS A FIGHT
Senator Terry Sanford of North Carolina, just out of the hospital, is trying to overcome implications by his opponent that he is too liberal and not fit to serve. A11
 
FERTILITY CLINICS CURBED
Federal officials are cracking down on fertility clinics that overstate their success rates. A15
 
Wallace Journal: A town celebrates losing new jobs. A10
 
Sports C1-10
 
TAKING THE BITTERNESS AWAY
Dave Winfield used one hit -- one "stinking little hit," he said with feigned irony -- to exorcise a decade of demons and heartache and to win the World Series for the Toronto Blue Jays on Saturday night. A1
 
Baseball: Two Blue Jays don't let history repeat. C1
 
Toronto celebrates Jays' victory in Series. C5
 
Columns: Vecsey on Cito Gatson. C4
 
Football: Feeble Giants defeat feeble Seattle. C1
 
Redskins win on Lohmiller's field goals. C6
 
Cowboys defeat Raiders. C6
 
Eagles stymie Cardinals. C6
 
Colts shock Dolphins. C8
 
Miami edges Washington in college polls. C10
 
Hockey: Penguins pick up where they left off. C2
 
Lindros and Flyers visits the Rangers. C2
 
Horse Racing: Looking forward to the Breeders' Cup. C8
 
Marathon: Lebow and Waitz prepare for the big race.C3
 
Obituaries D10
 
Adelino da Palma Carlos, Portugal's first Prime Minister.
 
Laurie E. Colwin, novelist and short story writer.
 
Business Digest D1
 
Arts/Entertainment C11-16
 
The Talk of Hollywood. C11
 
Theater: Mamet's "Oleanna." C11
 
Music: Sonic Youth. C11
 
Ben Neill performs. C11
 
From Reba McEntire. C15
 
Dance: In Review C12
 
Metro Digest B1
 
DANIELS PLANS LAWSUIT
On a day of confusing signals in the controversy surrounding Randy Daniels, a Harlem rally in support of the mayoral appointee was abruptly canceled without explanation yesterday, and an adviser said Mr. Daniels was being pressured by City Hall to step down as a deputy mayor. A1
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A16-17
 
Editorials
 
An urban aid bill that doesn't.
For Congress from Connecticut.
The Mozote horror, confirmed.
Topics: The best fall show.
 
Letters
 
Anthony Lewis: Trust.
 
William Safire: The Perot fraud.
 
Slavenka Drakulic: When patriots are enemies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: CROATIA (95%); CANADA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); SERBIA (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (72%); QUEBEC, CANADA (57%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (56%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (56%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CROATIA (95%); CANADA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); SERBIA (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); SYRIA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (72%); QUEBEC, CANADA (57%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); POLITICS (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); REFERENDUMS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); SHOOTINGS (69%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (67%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (65%); AIDS & HIV (62%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (62%); EXPERIMENTAL DRUGS (60%); VACCINES (50%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1992



865 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2215 words

HEADLINE: As G.M. Tries to Outrun Past, Critics Ask: Who's in Charge?

BYLINE: By LEONARD M. APCAR

 BODY:
The General Motors Corporation, the nation's largest manufacturer, was once renowned for its profitability and vitality. Now it is paralyzed by a crisis that has engulfed the very top of its management.
In the last week, General Motors employees and stockholders have awakened to headlines predicting that Robert C. Stempel, the affable, methodical chairman and chief executive, is on the verge of being pushed out by G.M. directors. That has not happened to a ranking G.M. executive since William Crapo Durant, the company's president and one of its founders, was forced out in the 1920's. 
 The board apparently believes that Mr. Stempel has moved too slowly to halt one of the most pronounced deteriorations of a business in American history. Frustrated over a gusher of red ink still flowing after three years, a faction of outsiders on G.M.'s board wants faster action against the auto maker's enormous bureaucracy and feisty union, as well as improvements on the bottom line.
The possibility of an executive-suite bloodletting is almost unheard of at stately, colorless G.M. For generations, a preordained succession of men have presided at headquarters in Detroit, in a corner office at the end of a long, usually deserted, always silent hallway, sealed off by guarded doors. Now, employees of all stripes are confused about who is in command.
"I had dinner last night with two G.M. engineers who can't get a decision from superiors on 1996 and 1997 models they're developing," said David E. Davis, the editor of Automobile magazine. "The executives are not communicating to the troops."
During a meeting of executives on Friday, G.M. employees were passing handwritten notes to each other: "Is Stempel out?" or "Is Smale taking over?" a reference to John G. Smale, the taciturn former chairman of Procter & Gamble who is a director of G.M. Mr. Smale, chairman of the board's executive committee, led a management shake-up seven months ago that ousted G.M.'s president and stripped some powers from Mr. Stempel.
At the end of last week, dealers, suppliers and stockholders were pressing the company for answers, but G.M. has said little. After stomping out earlier rumors on Wall Street and in Detroit of a possible bankruptcy, talk that G.M. brushed aside as "irresponsible," Mr. Smale issued a brief statement last week. Its tone was ominous for Mr. Stempel, who is 59 years old and was hospitalized briefly this month for high blood pressure. Mr. Smale said the board had not taken any action but "continues to reflect on the wisest course for assuring the most effective leadership for the corporation."
G.M.'s turmoil comes at an enormously sensitive time. Mr. Stempel, who has been chairman for 27 months, has been trying to give birth to "a new G.M.," bent on turning out higher-quality, distinctive cars and trucks at a cost that is competitive with the company's more efficient rivals. The goal is to make money no matter what size the market is or what market share G.M. can hold. That represents a departure from the previous goal, elusive for a decade, of trying to win back some of the 10 percentage points of market share G.M. lost to Toyota, Honda and other other foreign car makers, as well as to its Detroit competitors.
To make money, G.M. must trim its capacity, eliminate overlapping functions in plants and offices and spend heavily to restyle its cars to move beyond the series of look-alike models it offered in the 80's. It also has to seriously consider whether it needs all its car and truck marketing divisions: Cadillac, Buick, Oldsmobile, Pontiac, Chevrolet, Saturn and GMC Truck. On top of all that, the company needs to develop a culture that not only listens to the market of auto buyers but acts quickly to meet demands and anticipate new ones.
In that climate, executive drift may be disastrous, for G.M. no longer has the financial cushion that insulated it from previous mistakes.
"This is a company that has had one strikeout after another," said Maryann Keller, a stock analyst with Furman, Selz Inc. in New York.
 
A Need to Shrink While Still Investing
 What G.M. did not do -- but Ford and Chrysler did -- was face reality and learn to live with many fewer plants. Although G.M. closed 30 plants in the 80's, mostly antiquated ones, it also opened 9 new factories and modernized 19 others. The mighty company believed "closing factories is an incredible sign of weakness," Ms. Keller said.
What is painfully clear now to both Mr. Stempel and the board is that G.M. is at a crossroads: it can either lose further ground to aggressive rivals or brake its slide and begin making and selling cars profitably.
Both sides agree that G.M. has to shrink even as it is reinvesting in new cars. Where they differ is over approach.
Mr. Stempel, a patient engineer who will take the time to diagram his answers to questions about fine points of automotive engineering, said he learned too well that the upheavals brought on by reorganizations ordered by his predecessor, Roger B. Smith, hurt the corporation, costing sales and profits. That round of change, which began in 1984, took three times longer than planned and consolidated engineering, manufacturing and design. G.M. has since undone that reorganization, and on Friday it announced yet another round, which merged six car engineering groups into four.
To outsiders, the changes wrought by Mr. Smith hardly seemed revolutionary. But inside, it "was an emotional thing to do at the time," said Robert D. Burger, a now retired G.M. executive who ran Chevrolet in the 80's. "People who had worked at G.M. for many years weren't used to change." In the shake-up's early going, some engineers did not know who their boss was or even where they had a desk and a phone.
When Mr. Stempel took over, which happened to be the day after Iraq invaded Kuwait, he vowed, "I am not going to take G.M. apart again."
But he has announced the elimination of 74,000 jobs and 21 plant closings by the end of 1995, moves that would cut capacity by 20 percent. Although G.M. has said that some aspects of the plan will happen sooner, Mr. Stempel still has not identified a third of the 21 plants he intends to padlock. G.M. says those plans will be made by December, a full year after Mr. Stempel signaled his intentions.
"I don't know why they are taking so long to do what they have to do," said Douglas Fraser, the retired president of the United Automobile Workers union and a former director at the Chrysler Corporation.
At first, Mr. Stempel, who earned $1 million in salary last year, moved decisively. In his first six months, he cut G.M.'s stock dividend in half, canceled executive bonuses and consolidated engine and transmission operations into a single division.
He also placed a $3.35 billion bet that was a catastrophe. The amount reflects the money set aside to pay laid off workers. In 1990, Mr. Stempel signed a three-year U.A.W. agreement that paid union members nearly full wages even when they were not working. In return, Mr. Stempel got the freedom to close plants and shrink production to the point that G.M. could be humming at 100 percent capacity when the market picked up.
But the nation dug in for a prolonged recession, and car sales sagged. The result: Mr. Stempel is paying thousands of workers to stay home. At its worst last year, G.M. was losing $500 million a month in North America.
 
An Entrenched Tendency To Move Only Slowly
 Nor did Mr. Stempel's strategy buy labor peace. When G.M. tried to eliminate 240 tool-and-die-making jobs in Lordstown, Ohio, in August, the union struck and shut 14 assembly plants, idling more than 40,000 workers. The strike was settled only after G.M. agreed to defer the job cuts for a short time.
Now, the G.M. board may be reaching the conclusion that Mr. Stempel, himself a 34-year G.M. employee, cannot break free from the go-slow tendency that has been the bane of G.M.'s culture. And while Mr. Stempel may be the best engineer to run a prosperous G.M., he may be the wrong man now.
Ross Perot, who clashed with General Motors after it purchased his computer services company in the mid-80's, summed up the G.M. culture: "I come from an environment that if you see a snake you kill it. At G.M., if you see a snake, the first thing you do is go hire a consultant on snakes. Then you get a committee on snakes, and then you discuss it for a couple of years. The most likely course of action is nothing. You figure, the snake hasn't bitten anybody yet, so you just let him crawl around on the factory floor."
G.M. long believed in its heart that American fascination with small, foreign cars was whimsy. Deep down, Americans really wanted roomy Chevys, Buicks and Cadillacs. Better mileage was on the way, and once Detroit had it, sales would come.
No one believed that more than Roger B. Smith, who became G.M. chairman in 1981. He earmarked $40 billion -- roughly the same amount that the Federal Government is spending on the ambitious space-station program -- for new plants and automation. The figure helped bring G.M.'s total capital spending for the 1980's to $76 billion. Although it was having a bad patch -- 1980 was G.M.'s first annual loss in modern times -- Mr. Smith believed that G.M. was entitled to a 45 percent share of the American car market and needed modern assembly capacity to meet it.
He spent heavily on robots to paint cars and install windshields, intending to use automation to replace as many union workers as possible. He poured millions of dollars into technology and christened the Saturn Corporation in 1983 with a mandate to seek "start-to-finish innovation."
It took years to figure out what worked. At first, the robots painted themselves and dropped windshields onto the front seats. And only now, nine years after Saturn was announced, has it turned out to be a G.M. bright spot, luring young customers and helping cut the average age of G.M. buyers from the current level of 47 years. But Saturn is a more modest undertaking than originally planned and will take far longer to recoup the $3.5 billion G.M. has sunk into it.
For a while in the 80's, when the economy was growing and car sales were strong, G.M.'s huge profits, totaling nearly $28 billion from 1983 to 1989, masked many of its ailments. The biggest one was that G.M.'s costs were too high. The Japanese were building cars in the United States with nonunion workers, and they were importing full-sized, more profitable models that ate into G.M.'s bread and butter, the family sedan.
Mr. Burger, the former Chevrolet chief, attributed G.M.'s declining market share in the 1980's to "the increased pressure of the imports coming into the middle of the market that G.M. had owned for many years, and not only coming in with cars that were as good, but maybe sometimes better."
"Most importantly," he said of the foreign competition, "they had a cost advantage because we were so big, with so many people."
 
Chasing Competitors And Racing the Clock
 In April, after G.M. reported a $4.45 billion loss for 1991, the largest for any American corporation ever, G.M.'s board ordered Mr. Stempel to demote his president, Lloyd E. Reuss, and replace him with John F. (Jack) Smith Jr., who had led a turnaround of G.M.'s European operation. Mr. Smith is focusing on the North American operations by moving faster on plant closings, executive consolidations and price concessions from suppliers.
"There is a change that has gone on," said James Harbour, a Troy, Mich., manufacturing expert. "But if you think you're going to see it overnight, forget it."
In a recent study, Mr. Harbour calculated that it costs G.M. $795 more to build a car than is spent by the Ford Motor Company, which is the most efficient producer among the Big Three. That figure translates into a $4-billion-a-year disadvantage for G.M., nearly equal to its net loss last year.
To pare those costs, General Motors is trying to develop cars faster by creating teams of engineers, designers and marketing experts to sidestep the traditional bureaucratic obstacles that slow development. G.M. used to take five years to develop a car. Some 1990 and 1991 models took an average of 34 months -- an improvement, but still slower than Toyota, which has been known to spin out a new model in slightly more than two years.
G.M.'s target is $2 billion in savings this year and $5 billion annually by 1995. Meanwhile, the company wants "double digit" price cuts from suppliers and is trying to reduce the endless variations of components. One example: G.M., in its various models, uses five different kinds of brackets to support engine radiators.
But all of this will take time, and time may have run out for Mr. Stempel. The company's board meets next Monday in Manhattan at the G.M. Building, on Fifth Avenue at East 58th Street.
In Detroit, meanwhile, G.M. workers are aghast at the board's treatment of Mr. Stempel, especially in light of the progress he has made. "There is a lot of pain and agony," said a G.M. executive who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "There is a lot of love for Bob Stempel. For the first time in a long time, we thought they were starting to turn the big sucker around. Their time just ran out."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Roger B. Smith. (Peter Yates); John G. Smale; Robert C. Stempel; The last General Motors executive forced out by directors was William Crapo Durant, one of the founders, who left in the 1920's. (Associated Press) (pg. D5)
 
Graphs: "General Motors: Shrinking Market, Mounting Losses" tracks and compares percentages of new General Motors and import cars registered in the U.S. since 1960. Also tracked are G.M.'s net income and number of hourly employees (in the U.S., excluding EDS, Hughes and Saturn divisions) over the same period. (Sources: General Motors; Automotive News; R.L. Polk & Co.) (pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); PGP (PAR) (53%); PG (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (53%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (94%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: BOARDS OF DIRECTORS; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; FINANCES AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); HISTORY (69%); 

PERSON: APCAR, LEONARD M; STEMPEL, ROBERT C; SMALE, JOHN G MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1992



866 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1399 words

HEADLINE: Research Questions Effectiveness Of Most School-Choice Programs

BYLINE: By SUSAN CHIRA

 BODY:
Allowing parents to choose their children's schools may be the hottest idea in American education, but a new flood of research argues that such "choice" programs alone will not help schools and, in some cases, can actually hurt them.
A report to be made public today by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, a leading educational research group, is the latest of several to argue that choice primarily benefits children of better-educated parents, does not necessarily improve student performance, requires additional money and, without certain safeguards, may actually widen the gap between rich and poor school districts. 
 Choice programs in various forms have swept the country in the last few years. Many communities allow students to choose any school within a district. In 13 states -- Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Idaho, Iowa, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Nebraska, Oregon, Utah and Washington -- students may cross district lines, taking their share of state and local money with them. A dozen other states are actively considering such measures.
 
Milwaukee Voucher Plan
 Only Milwaukee actually allows private schools to compete for students, paying public money for a small number of poor students to attend private schools. Thirteen states are debating a similar plan, and Colorado has a voucher proposal on the November ballot.
The new studies come after three years of intensive lobbying by supporters of the voucher plan, including President Bush, conservative research groups and the two scholars whose 1989 book helped ignite the current debate. These supporters maintain that only competition from private or parochial schools will force complacent public school monopolies to improve.
The Carnegie report, which is based on a yearlong study, was criticized by advocates of choice programs on the ground that it underestimates the potential of such programs and had played down public support for the idea.
 
'Self-Satisfied Establishment'
 Lamar Alexander, the Secretary of Education, said, "Only a very self-satisfied establishment could so easily dismiss so many parents' wishes."
The Carnegie report recommends that rather than relying on choice alone, educators concentrate on improving all public schools and combating the poor health conditions and violence that impede many children's performance in school. Fair choice programs would pay for students' transportation, give parents enough information about schools and compensate for wide gaps in spending between rich and poor school districts. School improvement teams could visit failing schools with the power to remove principals and invest more money so that failing schools could improve rather than shut down.
But critics of public schools like John E. Chubb and Terry M. Moe, who ignited the choice debate in their book, "Politics, Markets and America's Schools" (Brookings Institution, 1989), say public schools have resisted such changes precisely because they face no real consequences for failing to act.
When researchers contend that poor children with less well-educated parents would lose under choice programs, Mr. Chubb replies that these children would have a better chance with choice than they do now, stuck in the nation's worst schools.
But the Carnegie report and a number of other studies have found that in general, parents who take advantage of choice programs are better educated or more confident, raising the possibility that children of troubled families may lose in an educational free market and end up stuck in the worst schools.
Surveys of families in choice programs in Montclair, N.J., and Milwaukee, as well as research by Amy Stuart Wells of the University of California at Los Angeles and a recent study of choice programs in Scotland, all found that better-educated parents usually participated in choice programs or used more sources of information to decide which school was best.
The Carnegie researchers, who surveyed more than 1,000 parents, visited choice programs across the country and compiled other studies, present the most adverse criticism of statewide choice programs.
In Massachusetts, with school spending already battered by the recession, a choice program has caused fiscal havoc, the Carnegie report says. It cites the case of Brockton, a financially troubled city, and its suburban neighbor, Avon, which spends twice the amount of money per pupil as Brockton and could easily lure students away. During the first year of choice, the report says, 135 Brockton students transferred to Avon, taking with them nearly $1 million in state aid.
Under Massachusetts law, Brockton also had to pay Avon the difference between the two districts' spending to match Avon's higher per-pupil spending. While Avon hired a new guidance counselor and paid for a new roof, Brockton had to lay off teachers and pack 40 students to a class.
Massachusetts has since amended its law to avoid such stark problems, but it still does not pay for transportation, which means that poor students may be unable to choose schools far away from their homes.
 
Some Bright Spots Found
 The Carnegie researchers pointed to some bright spots, like rural schools in Minnesota that attract students by creating innovative programs. But overall, the report said, no statewide program had demonstrated a clear link between choice and improving student achievement, partly because several studies show that most parents chose schools not for academic reasons, but because they were close to home.
The researchers found that less than 2 percent of students actually took advantage of statewide programs and that none of the programs met what they said were essential preconditions: paying transportation, providing parents enough information or compensating for the gaps in spending between rich and poor school districts. "By these yardsticks, we conclude that responsible and effective statewide school choice does not exist in America today," the report said.
Choice programs within one school district have been the most successful in improving student achievement, the report concludes. Parents and students in all choice programs are happy with them, the report says, but it emphasizes that students' freedom to choose schools was just one factor in this success. The nation's three most celebrated examples of choice programs -- those in New York City's East Harlem district, in Cambridge, Mass., and in Montclair -- have higher scores and more motivated students.
But these districts also spent a great deal of money on innovative programs, attracted generous Federal grants, offered parents considerable guidance and information on how to choose schools and gave teachers power to create their own schools. The report also says that 1992 test results show that some of East Harlem's gains have eroded, partly because of budget cuts.
 
Milwaukee Problems Cited
 The Carnegie report also criticizes Milwaukee's two-year experiment with vouchers. The program has had some problems -- a private school closed abruptly in the middle of its first year, stranding 63 children. There have been high and unexplained attrition rates. Test scores have not risen.
But most parents say they are delighted with the program, and its defenders note that it would be unusual to see changes in test scores after only two years.
The Carnegie report also found that most parents oppose vouchers by a 2-to-1 margin. But the Gallup Poll has indicated that there is substantial public support for vouchers. Much depends on how the questions are worded.
Other researchers are attacking Mr. Chubb's and Mr. Moe's argument that the best schools are those that have the least amount of bureaucratic oversight, and that competition will thus improve all schools.
Two researchers who have been sympathetic to choice programs, Valerie E. Lee of the University of Michigan and Anthony S. Bryk of the University of Chicago, said that Mr. Chubb and Mr. Moe made several technical decisions in the way they compiled their statistics that skewed their data, exaggerated the effect of autonomy on schools and minimized the effect of teaching methods or course requirements on student achievement.
Mr. Moe did not return messages left at his office requesting comment on these studies, and Mr. Chubb's secretary said he was out of town.


GRAPHIC: A recent poll by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching asked: "Some people think that parents should be given a voucher which they could use toward enrolling their child in a private school at public expense. Do you support or oppose that idea?"
 
Oppose: 62%
Support: 32%
Don't know: 6%
 
(pg. B8)
Graph: "School Choice"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: POLITICS, MARKETS AND AMERICA'S SCHOOLS (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE FOUNDATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF TEACHING CARNEGIE FOUNDATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CARNEGIE FOUNDATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF TEACHING CARNEGIE FOUNDATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); COLORADO, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; RESEARCH; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (90%); SCHOOL CHOICE (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LOBBYING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); POLITICS (87%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); PARENTS (78%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (73%); CONSERVATISM (64%); 

PERSON: CHIRA, SUSAN; CHUBB, JOHN E; MOE, TERRY M LAMAR ALEXANDER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1992



867 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Democrats;
Despite Perot Surge, Clinton Keeps Sights on Bush

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: STERLING HEIGHTS, Mich., Oct. 25

 BODY:
Spending an entire day in this swing state, Gov. Bill Clinton delivered a focused and concerted attack on President Bush today and called the Presidential race "a battle for the spirit of America."
Mr. Bush, he suggested, has abandoned average working people, has taken refuge in the White House and has used the power of the Presidency to help his "political cronies" and to nurture "a collection of the same old fears" that have divided the nation.
 
A Spot Above the Fray
 "We only have to put up with this, if you're willing to fight for change, for nine more days," Mr. Clinton said at a fall harvest festival in Saginaw.
The sharpened attack left little doubt that the Democrats would treat the President as their primary enemy as shifting polls in a handful of crucial states illustrate just how many voters are still making up their minds. 
 Taking advantage of a strategy that worked well for him when Mr. Bush and Ross Perot were sparring last June, Mr. Clinton ridiculed both his opponents, saying they were preoccupied with investigating each other rather than with the future of Americans, and he claimed a spot for himself above the fray.
"Now, it turns out today, Mr. Perot is accusing Mr. Bush of investigating his children," Mr. Clinton said, referring to the Texas businessman's accusations on the CBS news program "60 Minutes" tonight. "So now we've got this bizarre situation where Bush and Perot have accused each other of investigating each other's children. Let me tell you something. I want to investigate your children -- their problems, their promise and their future."
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York, picking up on Mr. Clinton's theme at a rally in a high school stadium here tonight, said Republican economic strategies have benefited only the wealthy. "They'll take care of themselves," he said. "They will not take care of the rest of us."
This was the first time Mr. Cuomo and Mr. Clinton have campaigned together, but aides to the New York Governor said that Mr. Cuomo has given 81 interviews that were broadcast in 22 states on Mr. Clinton's behalf,
"America's getting lucky again," Mr. Cuomo said. "When we need one most in this country, a champion steps forward. And one has stepped forward again."
 
Jumps on New Allegations
 During his campaigning today, Mr. Clinton also repeatedly drew attention to the recent spate of news articles about the possible involvement of Mr. Bush and his chief of staff, James A. Baker 3d, in illegal dealings with Iran and Iraq. By combining the latest allegations with his customary recitation of Republican shortcomings on jobs and the economy, Mr. Clinton sought to make a sweeping indictment of the Bush Administration's actions as well as of its intentions.
"If I worked at it 18 hours a day, I couldn't cost you as many jobs as he has in the last four years," he said. "Because I could not go to sleep at night with the kind of policy that they have visited on the American people.
"I do not promise to be a perfect President," Mr. Clinton said. "If you elect me, I'll make mistakes, but unlike the guy who's in there today, from Day One, I'll get up every day, go in to work and try to get something done."
Mr. Clinton launched no such specific attack on Mr. Perot or his proposals. Instead, he used a classic Clinton campaign tactic -- appropriating elements of his opponent's most effective pitch -- to tell voters he is on their side against the Washington insiders who he said have claimed the White House.
"I'll wake up every day in that White House with the idea that it's not my house," he said, sounding for all the world like a less twangy Mr. Perot. "It's your house. And I am nothing more than a temporary tenant and your chief hired hand, and that if it hadn't been for you I wouldn't be there."
 
Sights Remain Fixed on Bush
 Mr. Clinton has faced down his electoral foes in a similar manner before, dispensing with threats from Senators Tom Harkin, Bob Kerrey and Paul E. Tsongas with the same sort of rhetorical technique. He uses some of their words in his stump speech today.
But today's assault was conducted with a twist. Working to make sure that the President always remains his primary target, he used Mr. Perot's language to bolster his attack on Mr. Bush.
"How in the world can these people be talking about this when the state of Michigan lost 125,000 manufacturing jobs since Bush has been President, when this country's lost 1.4 million manufacturing jobs, when most Americans are working harder for lower wages than they were making 10 years ago, including most of the people in this audience today?" he asked. "How can they be talking about each other when they ought to be talking about you and your future?"
Because of Mr. Perot, the contest in Michigan has tightened considerably. Polls show Mr. Clinton's lead over Mr. Bush at about 10 percentage points, half of what it was before the debates.
Mr. Clinton has responded by campaigning here aggressively. He flew into Grand Rapids on Saturday night, on to Saginaw and to this Detroit suburb today. He is scheduled to return to the state again on Thursday.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Bill Clinton acknowledging supporters after being introduced by Gov. Mario Cuomo during a rally yesterday on a football field at Adlai Stevenson High School in Utica, Mich. (Lee Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (54%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (80%); WHITE HOUSE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (80%); WHITE HOUSE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MICHIGAN UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); 

PERSON: IFILL, GWEN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); PEROT, ROSS; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1992



868 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: Baker, Telling Iraqis of Loan Aid, Asked Help on Palestinian Talks

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 24

 BODY:
Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d sent a message to Iraq in November 1989 telling the Iraqis that the United States had just approved new grain credits and seeking Baghdad's influence in persuading Palestinians to take part in peace talks with Israel, a newly declassified document shows.
Although the message from Mr. Baker, now the White House chief of staff, does not explicitly link the farm loan credits to Iraq's intervention with the Palestinians, it provides the clearest evidence so far that the United States wanted something in return for the guarantees. 
 The message was sent to Iraq's Foreign Minister, Tariq Aziz, on Nov. 9, 1989, nine months before Iraq invaded Kuwait. A copy of the message was released along with many other documents on Friday night by the Senate Agriculture Committee, which is investigating reported abuses in the farm credit program.
Some members of Congress have charged that the Iraqis diverted the grain for money and weapons, and that the Bush Administration generally sought to curry favor with President Saddam Hussein before the Iraqi invasion. The question has become an issue in the Presidential election.
 
Wide Opposition to Iraqi Aid
 The Bush Administration has repeatedly denied that there was any evidence of such a grain diversion and justified its decision to extend the farm credits as a way to try to moderate President Hussein's behavior through economic and political incentives.
The decision to proceed with the farm credits was made despite opposition from the Treasury Department, the Federal Reserve, the Office of Management and Budget and Federal prosecutors in Atlanta who were investigating a multibillion-dollar loan fraud involving the Atlanta branch of an Italian bank and Iraq.
In another document released by the committee, the Federal prosecutor in charge of the bank case wrote in an internal memo in July stating that Iraq had misused the farm program and that the Agriculture Department knew it but ignored it.
The July 16, 1992, memo by the prosecutor, Gail McKenzie, sharply criticizes the Department for ignoring evidence of the abuses in a meeting with other Government agencies held just before the Administration agreed to proceed with the first $500 million of the $1 billion in credits to Iraq.
 
The Urgency of Peace Talks
 Mr. Baker's request to the Iraqis for help with the Palestinians partly explains why he became personally involved in lobbying for the farm program. Determined to make progress on his peace plan, Mr. Baker at one point, according to previous press reports, telephoned Agriculture Secretary Clayton K. Yeutter to press the case for the grain credits.
In the message to Iraq, which was sent by Mr. Baker for delivery by the United States Ambassador in Baghdad, April C. Glaspie, Mr. Baker said he was "pleased to be able to inform" Mr. Aziz that an Agriculture Department team would soon arrive in Baghdad to negotiate new credits under terms that "we believe will be acceptable to you."
The message, sent a month after Mr. Aziz and Mr. Baker met in Washington, said the decision on the grain credits "reflects the importance we attach to our relationship with Iraq."
Then Mr. Baker quickly turned to the peace talks. "We are at a critical point in our diplomacy," Mr. Baker said. "The Government of Egypt is working closely with Palestinians to respond positively to our five-point framework, enabling us to get an Israeli-Palestinian dialogue launched. It would be useful if you could weigh in with them and urge them to give a positive response to Egypt's suggestions."
Mr. Baker had broached the subject of Iraqi support for the Egyptian peace plan at his meeting with Mr. Aziz on Oct. 6. But at that meeting, according to the minutes, Mr. Aziz remained noncommittal, telling Mr. Baker, it was "Iraqi policy to refrain from public statements on the peace process."
Ms. McKenzie's memo gives a detailed description of her concerns about the grain program, which she had voiced in a conversation with two senior Agriculture Department officials on Oct. 11, 1989. Other documents indicate that Ms. McKenzie and other members of her team had warned against giving Iraq new credits.
Ms. McKenzie wrote in the memo that she told the two officials that there were strong indications that Iraq was bartering or diverting food bought through the credit program, because the country was buying more food than "could reasonably be consumed in Iraq." She noted that the Agriculture Department's monitoring system traced food shipments only as far as Jordan and Turkey, not as far as Iraq.
At the time of her meeting, Federal prosecutors in Atlanta and other United States Government officials were suspicious that Iraq was diverting either the loan money or the food into weapons purchases, although the allegations have never been proved.
 
Kickbacks to Iraqis Reported
 Ms. McKenzie's memo was apparently written as a protective measure to exonerate her and her team of any wrongdoing in their handling of the bank fraud. Ms. McKenzie said in the memo that it was written after she learned that Congress was investigating her briefings to Agriculture Department officials.
The prosecutors had also uncovered evidence that Iraq had demanded bribes from American exporters participating in the program. In her memo, Ms. McKenzie described how the Iraqis paid inflated prices for goods backed by the aid program in order to include kickbacks and freight charges in violation of the program's regulations. Even after the Agriculture Department "advised Iraq to cease such demands for payments," she wrote, the Iraqis continued to demand kickbacks.
Many of the loans guaranteed by the United States grain program were extended by the Atlanta branch of the Banca Nazionale del Lavoro, the Italian bank that Ms. McKenzie's office was investigating.
She noted that Iraq was using other loans from the bank to buy militarily useful equipment, including machines useful in both ballistic missile and nuclear weapons programs. She also said Iraqis "may be" using profits from the bank fraud scheme and from kickbacks in military projects.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); ISRAEL (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (68%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (68%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; IRAQ IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); ISRAEL (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KUWAIT (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); 

SUBJECT: PALESTINIANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL LENDING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); BANK BRANCHES (63%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1992



869 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Rabin Reiterates That Israel Will Not Yield All of Golan

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Oct. 25

 BODY:
Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin told his Cabinet emphatically today that Israel would not fully pull back from the Golan Heights even though it has raised the possibility of withdrawal in its peace negotiations with Syria.
His affirmation of Israel's position came just before a fresh spurt of violence left six Israeli soldiers dead, including five killed in southern Lebanon when Islamic guerrillas blew up their tank. It was the largest one-day death toll the Israeli Army suffered there in two years. 
 In addition, a soldier was killed by an Arab gunman, described as a militant Islamic fundamentalist, who fired a machine gun at an army post in the West Bank city of Hebron. Hours later, hundreds of armed Jewish settlers from Hebron went to Jerusalem to demand the Prime Minister's resignation. They tried unsuccessfully to storm a hotel where he was holding a reception.
On the question of the Golan Heights, Mr. Rabin was said to be angered by press reports here that he was ready to discuss a complete Israeli withdrawal, and he insisted at his Cabinet's weekly meeting that he had nothing of the sort in mind.
 
Only Part
 Later, other officials said that when Israeli negotiators used the word "withdrawal" last week -- for the first time in their discussions with Syria -- it meant that Israel was willing to yield only some Golan territory and to redraw boundaries. Giving up the Golan entirely, as Syria demands for full peace and security arrangements, is out of the question, they said.
The Israeli offer, said Health Minister Chaim Ramon, who is close to the Prime Minister, involves "territorial changes on the Golan Heights, and not to leave the Golan Heights."
Nothing has been mentioned, other officials said, about what might happen to the three dozen Jewish settlements built there since the Golan was captured in the 1967 Middle East War.
The possibility that some settlements might be dismantled has generated protests, including one by several dozen settlers who camped today outside the Prime Minister's office during the meeting. They used loudspeakers to replay a campaign speech by Mr. Rabin, in which he said that Israel would be abandoning its security if it came down from the Golan Heights.
Before the weekend, Mr. Rabin described his offer of a partial withdrawal from the Golan as a test of Syria's readiness for peace. "If Syria rejects this," he told Israel television, "I will at least feel I did what is expected of a Prime Minister to take advantage of the chance for peace, to say I did everything to reach peace."
Israel's affirmation of its position, the gulf between Syria and Israel, the approaching Presidential elections in the United States and the latest violence are almost certain to affect the progress of peace talks in Washington. If nothing else, the violence is likely to reinforce Israel's argument that it must maintain its southern Lebanon buffer zone because the Syrian-dominated Lebanese Government has shown that it cannot control fighters from the pro-Iranian Party of God.
 
Convoy Bombed
 According to reports from Lebanon, the Israeli soldiers were killed when a roadside bomb planted by Party of God guerrillas exploded as their convoy passed just inside the Lebanese buffer zone. One soldier was killed immediately, four died later of their wounds, and five were less seriously wounded.
Reuters reported from Lebanon that Israeli artillery responded by pounding Party of God strongholds in the Bekaa region, north of the border zone.
The Hebron attack occurred near the Cave of Machpela, burial site of Old Testament figures. According to the Israeli Army, a Palestinian gunman let loose a burst of automatic fire at a military checkpoint, killing one soldier and lightly wounding another.
The slain man was identified as First Sgt. Shmuel Garish, a 32-year-old reservist from Rishon Lezion, near Tel Aviv. Brig. Gen. Moshe Yaalon, the army's West Bank commander, said that the Islamic fundamentalist group Hamas had claimed responsibility and that the purpose of the shooting was to disrupt peace talks.
Besides the round under way in Washington -- consisting of direct discussions between Israel and Syria, Jordan, Lebanon and the Palestinians -- negotiations began today on another track in The Hague. These are part of "multilateral" talks that involve some 35 countries on broad issues affecting the entire Middle East: arms control, economic development, refugee problems, water resources and the environment.
The "multilaterals" are supposed to complement and bolster the "bilateral" negotiations in Washington, but diplomats here caution that unless there is movement in the face-to-face talks, the region-wide discussions will remain little more than a sideshow.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (97%); SYRIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); LEBANON (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); 

COMPANY: IRANIAN PARTY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: IRANIAN PARTY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; GOLAN HEIGHTS; SYRIA ISRAEL (97%); SYRIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); LEBANON (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ARMIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); FUNDAMENTALISM (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); SHOOTINGS (77%); RELIGION (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); 

PERSON: HABERMAN, CLYDE; RABIN, YITZHAK (PRIME MIN) TZIPORA LIVNI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1992



870 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
General Motors, once renowned for its profitability and vitality, is paralyzed by a crisis in its top management fed by predictions that Robert C. Stempel, the chairman, is on the verge of being pushed out by G.M. directors tired of the auto maker's gushing red ink. At a company that for generations had a well-defined system of succession, the situation has left employees confused about who is in command. [Page A1.] Whatever happens when the board meets next Monday, it seems clear that 11 outside directors are broadcasting a message that G.M. is not changing fast enough. [D5.]
A squabble between the chairman of the nation's largest bank, Citicorp, and the chief executive of a much smaller company highlights the debate over how stock options should be valued. [D2.]
 
The Economy
The gross domestic product figures to be published tomorrow -- one week before Election Day -- may give President Bush a final chance to contend that the economy has finally begun to emerge from its limbo. [D1.] 
 Orders for American-made machine tools jumped 16 percent in September from levels of a year earlier, reflecting heavy ordering last month at an industry trade show held every two years. [D1.]
Hard economic times are forcing changes on Rodeo Drive, the fashionable retail strip of Beverly Hills, Calif., where it is possible to spend $15,000 for a handbag. [D1.] At least one business is thriving: the Beverly Loan Company, the city's best-known pawnshop. [D3.]
 
International
Europe will eventually have a telecommunications market nearly as competitive as that of the United States, according to the chief executive of Belgium's telephone company. [D7.]
The Sunday Telegraph of Britain reported that the president of the European Community had a secret understanding with Bill Clinton to delay a world trade agreement until after the Presidential election. Mr. Clinton and his aides denied the report. [A14.]
 
The Media Business
American Express's dismissal of Chiat/Day/Mojo as the ad agency for its charge cards followed months of speculation that Chiat's position was deteriorating because its initial campaign had drawn mixed reviews. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D1.]
Americans watching Presidential debates and registering to vote in record numbers are buying masses of books about the candidates, the deficit, environmental problems and the way Government doesn't always work. Esther B. Fein: Publishing. [D8.]
The intense interest in this year's Presidential elections and the impulse toward cause-related advertising has resulted in a bumper crop of "get out the vote" messages. [D8.]
This year's hottest magazines appear to be Men's Journal and Sportsman, which feature articles like cave-diving in the Yucatan and dog sledding in the Arctic Circle. [D8.]
Audiences for syndicated shows are slumping badly despite Bill Cosby's "You Bet Your Life," the most eagerly anticipated syndicated series in years. [D8.]
 
Today's Columns
The stocks of cellular telephone companies in California plunged last week after a ruling by state regulators aimed at increasing competition there. Market Place. [D6.]
The aftermath of Canada's constitutional referendum could foretell events in the American bond market after the Presidential election. Jonathan Fuerbringer: Credit Markets. [D7.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (63%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (63%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); BELGIUM (73%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); ARCTIC (50%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHIAT/DAY/MOJO INC ADVERTISING (63%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); BELGIUM (73%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); ARCTIC (50%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (87%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (86%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (77%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (75%); POLITICAL DEBATES (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (69%); STOCK OPTIONS (68%); DOGS (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (61%); TRADE SHOWS (51%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); CAVING (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1992



871 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: Millionaire and Comptroller Square Off

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MASSAPEQUA, L.I., Oct. 25

 BODY:
As youngsters picked out Halloween masks at a shopping mall here and prepared their tricks or treats, candidates in Long Island's newly redrawn Third Congressional District sought out voters, conjuring up frightening images of their opponents.
"He's a zealot and an extremist on the abortion issue," said Stephen A. Orlins, a Democrat and self-made millionaire, pulling out all stops in describing his Republican opponent, Peter T. King, who is now Nassau County Comptroller. "He's out of touch with reality and has used his position to block a woman's right to choose." 
 Mr. King, a Catholic, says he has developed his own personal views against abortion and is not necessarily guided by the church's teachings. He called Mr. Orlins "a carpetbagger" who has lived in Manhattan for the last several years and who rented a house in Manhasset "only just this summer so he could make his first run for public office."
"He's got the money so the Democrats are willing to help him buy a seat in Congress," Mr. King said, although acknowledging that members of the House do not have to live within the district they represent.
 
A Party Loyalist
 The bitter race began when Representative Norman F. Lent, a Republican, surprised party leaders by announcing earlier this year that he was giving up his seat after 22 years in Congress. Republicans, anxious to hold onto a district that covers the central part of Nassau County, quickly chose Mr. King, a 48-year-old party loyalist who is well known among voters.
The Democrats picked Mr. Orlins, a 42-year-old political newcomer who has spent most of the last two decades building a brokerage business, which he sold to Shearson Lehman in 1985. After the sale, he served as president of the Asian division of the brokerage concern for three years and lived in Hong Kong.
He returned to the United States in 1990 and is now a consultant to American Express.
"I grew up in Nassau County," said Mr. Orlins, angered by Mr. King's assertion that he is an outsider. "In 1950, my family moved to Roslyn, where I went to nursery school, elementary school and high school.
"My values were formed in this district," Mr. Orlins added. "Since then I've lived all over the world and had a wealth of experiences that can now benefit the people of the district. I've built a business, as opposed to someone who has lived on the county and town payroll for the last 17 years."
 
'A Big Difference'
 Mr. King, who is married and has a son, Sean, 22, and a daughter, Erin, 18, speaks proudly of his service in public office, saying he has a "proven record" with the voters in Nassau County.
"Orlins was never around," he said. "There's a big difference between making millions for yourself and fighting for other people, putting your reputation and career on the line."
Mr. King, a Seaford resident, was a Hempstead Councilman from 1978 to 1981 and has been the Nassau Comptroller since then. The public has long identified him with the anti-abortion issue, and he has taken part in demonstrations organized by the Roman Catholic Diocese at Rockville Centre. But he denied Mr. Orlins's charge that he had "ever blocked entrances to abortion clinics or in any way broken the law."
Mr. King said he was "especially angered by an Orlins campaign advertisement in which a husband is informed by a hospital spokesman that his wife has been raped and is pregnant and that Peter King won't let her get an abortion."
"That ad really scrapes the bottom of the barrel," Mr. King said. "It's as if I were to run an ad saying that a father and mother had just learned that their teen-aged daughter might seek an abortion but that Steve Orlins would not let them find out."
Mr. Orlins said Mr. King "had every right to have his own opinion on the abortion issue."
"That's what democracy is all about," he said, "but when he calls for a constitutional amendment to ban abortion, he's subjecting every woman in this country to his own views over their right of choice."
 
Economic Issues
 Both candidates insist the economy is the major issue in the campaign. Mr. Orlins, however, is trying to portray his opponent as an an entrenched government bureaucrat, an assertion that Mr. King bristles at.
For instance, Mr. King says he "blew the whistle" on Nassau County's fiscal crisis in February 1991, "long before anyone else spoke out." This year the county has a $130 million gap in its $2 billion budget, and fighting between the Republicans and Democrats on the county's Board of Supervisors has stalled action on the deficit.
Mr. Orlins, for his part, argues that since Mr. King, as Comptroller, sits on the board, "he's part of the problem, rather than a part of the solution."
 
Other Candidates
 Two other candidates in the race are expected to draw some votes equally from Mr. King and Mr. Orlins. Louis P. Roccanova, 27, of North Massapequa, is running on the Right-to-Life Party ticket and may take votes away from Mr. King, while Ben-Zion J. Heyman, 59, of East Rockaway, is on the Liberal Party line, and may draw votes from Mr. Orlins.
There are 150,000 registered Republicans in the district, 87,000 Democrats and 60,000 independents. The district stretches along the South Shore from East Rockaway through Long Beach, Merrick, Bellmore, Seaford, Massapequa, Farmingdale and Hicksville and north through Locust Valley, Brookville, Glen Cove and Glenwood Landing on the North Shore.
Mr. King, who says his political role model is Jack F. Kemp, the Federal Housing Secretary, said he would support the balanced-budget amendment and vouchers allowing students to attend the public or private school of their choice. On health care, he supports allowing small businesses to deduct 100 percent of employee medical insurance premiums and improving medical malpractice tort procedures.
A graduate of Notre Dame University Law School, Mr. King opposes gun control but says he would support a mandatory 10-year minimum sentence for any crime committed with a firearm.
 
Harvard Law Graduate
 Mr. Orlins, who is married and has three daughters, Eliza, 9, Sabrina, 5, and Emily, 4, is a graduate of Harvard Law School. He said he opposes the balanced-budget amendment, which he calls a false mechanism to solve the country's fiscal problems. On health care, he said employers should either help provide health insurance for employees or pay into a government health-care program.
On the gun-control issue, Mr. Orlins favors passage of the Brady bill, with its mandatory waiting period for handgun purchases, and he is against providing school vouchers.
Representative Lent, 61, of Baldwin, has served in what was the old Fourth Congressional District since 1970, when he defeated Allard K. Lowenstein, a Democrat, by 9,300 votes. Many political observers say the vote in the King-Orlins contest could be even closer.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Stephen A. Orlins, the Democratic candidate for Congress in Long Island's newly redrawn Third Congressional District, campaigned yesterday at a pre-Halloween event in North Massapequa.; Peter T. King, the Nassau County Comptroller and Republican candidate for Congress, says his role model is Jack F. Kemp, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. He campaigned yesterday in Long Beach. (Photographs by Steve Berman for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES: Third Congressional District"
 
POPULATION
Total: 580,337
 
Voting-age population:
 
Hispanic: 4.2%
Black: 1.8%
White: 91.7%
Other: 2.3%
 
MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME
In 1989
 
District 3: $54,000
N.Y. State: $32,965
 
PUBLIC ASSISTANCE
 
Those with public assistance income.
 
Dist. 3: 3.6%
N.Y. State: 9.1%
 
NONCITIZENS
 
Dist. 3: 5.1%
N.Y. State: 8.6%
 
EDUCATION
Those over 25 with a high-school diploma.
 
Dist. 3: 84%
N.Y. State: 75%
 
(Sources: 1990 Census, New York State Legislative Task Force in Redistricting)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (52%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NASSAU COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ABORTION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); HALLOWEEN (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); ABORTION (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (76%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (55%); 

PERSON: KING, PETER T; ORLINS, STEPHEN A; MCQUISTON, JOHN T PETER T KING (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1992



872 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK CITY
 
MORE QUESTIONS IN DANIELS CASE
On a day of confusing signals in the controversy surrounding Randy Daniels, a Harlem rally in his support was abruptly canceled yesterday, and an adviser said Mr. Daniels was being pressured by City Hall to step down as a deputy mayor. At the same time, Mr. Daniels's lawyer announced that a multimillion-dollar libel suit would be filed this week against the woman who has accused him of sexual harassment. A1.
 
THE MAN IN THE EYE OF THE STORM
More than a dozen friends and colleagues of Randy Daniels who were interviewed in the last several days said they found it difficult to reconcile the accusations by Barbara Wood, a television reporter who worked briefly for Mr. Daniels in the office of City Council President Andrew J. Stein, with the man they know as a devout husband and father and a consummate gentleman. B3.
 
ANITA HILL REVISITED
Anita F. Hill lost her battle against Clarence Thomas a year ago, but the eerily similar sexual harassment charges that erupted in New York City last week demonstrate that she won a lasting moral victory. More Americans are infused with an acute sensitivity that no longer reflexively gives a man the benefit of the doubt. And that, part of Anita Hill's legacy, has been the heart of Randy Daniels's problem. Metro Matters, B3.
 
RAISING MORALE AMONG POLICE
Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said he met twice last week -- his first full week on the job -- with the leadership of the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association to explore ways to increase morale in the department. Mr. Kelly said he had met with Phil Caruso, president of the police union, and members of the executive board, "to identify some of the core morale issues that we can work cooperatively on." B3.
 
ONE LANDLORD'S STRUGGLES
As a private landlord renting to poor and nearly poor New Yorkers in a troubled neighborhood in Harlem, Harley Brooke-Hitching, is either a crucial provider of low-cost housing or a slumlord, depending on one's point of view. In either case, her risky real-estate speculation may yet prove her undoing. Strictly Business, B2.
 
REGION
 
D'AMATO RAISES ABRAMS SPECTER
Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato is out to scare New York. Stalking senior citizens' homes, veterans' posts and defense industry plants all across the state like a bespectacled King Kong, the Republican incumbent is trying to spread terror, panic or even just a twinge of anxiety about the economic plans of his opponent, Bob Abrams. Mr. D'Amato has made his opponent's call for universal health insurance and major defense cuts the cornerstone of his campaign. And Mr. Abrams, the Attorney General, has been reduced to pleading that the Senator is distorting his views. B4.
 
BITTER L.I. CONGRESSIONAL RACE
As youngsters picked out Halloween masks at a shopping mall here and prepared their tricks or treats, candidates in Long Island's newly redrawn Third Congressional District sought out voters, conjuring up frightening images of their opponents. The bitter race pits Stephen A. Orlins, a Democrat and self-made millionaire, against Peter T. King, who is now Nassau County Comptroller. Yesterday both candidates sought out voters, with Mr. Orlins charging that Mr. King was "out of touch with reality and has used his position to block a woman's right to choose," and Mr. King striking back at Mr. Orlins, saying, "He's got the money so the Democrats are willing to help him buy a seat in Congress." B6.
 
A QUIET LEGACY OF CHARITY
DeWitt Wallace and Lila Acheson Wallace, who founded Reader's Digest, protected their privacy zealously, discouraged would-be biographers, left no diaries and destroyed their personal correspondence. When they died, he in 1981 at age 91 and she in 1984 at 94, their wills left no instructions about how their money should be used for philanthropy. But they had created two funds and seven organizations that will give away $150 million yearly. Those funds are only a part, albeit the largest part, of the Wallaces' charitable legacy. B6.
 
Chronicle B9

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: READER'S DIGEST DEUTSCHLAND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CITIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (85%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MAYORS (77%); LIBEL & SLANDER (76%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (76%); DEFENSE SPENDING (76%); STALKING (75%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (75%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); REAL ESTATE (69%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (67%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (66%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: CLARENCE THOMAS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1992



873 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1586 words

HEADLINE: D'Amato Sows Worry to Reap Votes

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato is out to scare New York. Stalking senior citizens' homes, veterans' posts and defense industry plants all across the state like a bespectacled King Kong, the Republican incumbent is trying to spread terror, panic or even just a twinge of anxiety about his opponent's economic plans.
"Bob Abrams is going to double your Medicare payments" he tells a cluster of wide-eyed elderly voters at an old-age home in Buffalo. He warned veterans at an American Legion post in Syracuse that Mr. Abrams would eliminate all veterans' benefits and shut down their V.A. hospitals. "It will be the end," he said ominously. "There would be no more veterans' benefits." 
 At Grumman headquarters in Bethpage, L.I., where almost half the staff has been laid off since 1986, his message was starker still. "Four hundred thousand jobs, we would lose, if he has his way, right here in New York," he shouted. Pointing at a huddle of assembled employees, he added, "If he gets elected, will these people have jobs?
Seeking a third term in the middle of a recession, Mr. D'Amato rarely talks on the stump about his own economic agenda. Instead, he has made his opponent's call for universal health insurance and major defense cuts the cornerstone of his campaign. In two or three, and sometimes four, appearances a day, staged for newspapers and television stations all across the state, he tells voters over and over that Mr. Abrams's proposals will raise taxes, cut benefits and cause massive layoffs.
Mr. Abrams, the Attorney General, has been reduced to pleading that the Senator is distorting his views.
 
Hyperbolic Math
 And while Mr. D'Amato has distanced himself from George Bush (his supporters have begun distributing "Clinton-D'Amato" buttons), his apocalytic warnings echo the President's. Like Mr. Bush, Mr. D'Amato says the Democratic candidate will raise taxes. Like Mr. Bush, Mr. D'Amato argues that while the economy is bad, it will grow much, much worse if his opponent is elected. And like Mr. Bush, he has questioned his rival's honor. Only Mr. D'Amato's style is different. On the stump, he is Joe Pesci in a pin-stripe suit: brash, guttural and relentless.
He has locked onto Mr. Abrams's on-again-off-again embrace of the Russo bill, a universal health care proposal made by Congressman Martin A. Russo, Democrat of Illinois. Mr. Abrams endorsed the plan last spring, but has since said he does not favor its financing mechanisms, which include higher personal taxes.
The Senator gleefully ignores Mr. Abrams's demurrals, insisting, "You can't have it both ways." Mr. D'Amato says flatly that Mr. Abrams "will cost New Yorkers at least 200,000 jobs and raise taxes on everybody."
Sometimes, even the Senator's math verges on the hyperbolic. When he tells some audiences that Mr. Abrams intends to "double" elderly people's Medicare payments, he is referring to an estimate that the Russo bill would require a 38 percent increase.
Mr. D'Amato assured employees at Grumman headquarters on Long Island that Mr. Abrams's call for a 50 percent cut in military spending would eliminate 400,000 defense-related jobs in New York. The D'Amato campaign calculates that there are 400,000 defense-related jobs in the state. "We assume everyone will lose their jobs," is how Kirill Goncharenko, an issues adviser to Mr. D'Amato, explained the Senator's figure.
 
'Little Guy' in Loafers
 His speeches are short, punchy and visceral. (He snaps at aides who hand him "boring" talking points.) Though he wears Hermes ties and tasseled loafers, Mr. D'Amato talks in the class-conscious code of "we" and "they," casting himself as the champion of the "little guy" fighting the establishment. He told members of Local 1087 of the Glaziers Union in Manhattan that he was "fighting the powers that be" in Washington.
And at large rally of conservative Jewish supporters in Borough Park in Brooklyn yesterday, Mr. D'Amato stood on a truckbed surrounded by rabbis and shouted that Mr. Abrams "is buried over there with an ultra-liberal elitist establishment that doesn't know what our people have to do to survive."
He frequently mentions his differences with the Bush Administration, saying he opposed Saddam Hussein long before Mr. Bush did. He brags that he did not vote in favor of the 1990 tax bill. Trying to cast Mr. Abrams as "hopelessly liberal" and on the far-left of the Democratic Party, Mr. D'Amato says he and Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas support the death penalty and welfare reform, but that Mr. Abrams does not.
Mr. D'Amato, who was chastised by the Senate ethics committee for "improper and inappropriate" misuse of his office after a long investigation, seldom mentions the many charges of ethical misconduct that have been levied against him. He leaves that to his television ads, which lobbed a pre-emptive strike against Mr. Abrams on the issue of ethics by attacking the Attorney General's practice of taking contributions from people who do business with his office.
Occasionally, when addressing a particularly supportive crowd, like the Orthodox Jews in Borough Park, Mr. D'Amato lets some of his bitterness over his tarnished reputation slip through. He blames his enemies for his troubles.
 
Abhorring a Vacuum
 He alluded yesterday to the multiple allegations, saying that "people on both sides of the aisle have said to me, 'Alfonse, we're for you, and what has been done is wrong.' " He continued, "What Bob Abrams and his claque have done, or are attempting to do," he paused, and added, "and The Village Voice, and Mark Green, is absolutely wrong." Mr. Green, the Commissioner of Consumer Affairs, opposed Mr. D'Amato in the 1986 Senate election and raised some of the charges that were investigated by the Senate ethics committee.
Off the podium, Mr. D'Amato rails against his critics in the kind of language not often heard in the Senate cloak room.
Among even his ardent supporters, Mr. D'Amato inspires affection more than awe. His manner is playful, sometimes childish, usually on the far side of propriety. And when he gives a speech, Mr. D'Amato works even the smallest rooms with rib-digging affability, hugging supporters, and punching old friends in the arm. "Howyadoin, big guy," is his standard greeting for a stranger.
The Senator, like nature, hates a vacuum. While campaigning, he feels compelled to make antic conversation with everyone, even protesters. He could not ignore a small, fervent group of broom-wielding "Dump D'Amato" protesters in Astoria, Queens, this month. As they chanted, "hey, hey, ho, ho, Al D'Amato has got to go," Mr. D'Amato sidled up to them and, with a schoolyard smirk, began waving his hands like a conductor leading an orchestra. Unamused, the protesters chased him to his waiting car, chanting even louder.
In his speeches, Mr. D'Amato focuses on what he calls Mr. Abrams's "tax and spend" proposals and rarely speaks in specifics of his own economic plans. Mr. D'Amato says that Mr. Abrams wants to spend an additional $500 billion on health care. He says that he agrees that the national health-care system needs reform, but only through cost containment, more managed care centers and tax incentives for the uninsured.
He omits the fact that his health care proposal, the Chafee bill, is basically the same as Mr. Bush's. Asked what his proposals would cost, Mr. D'Amato shrugged and said he didn't know. The Senate majority leader, Bob Dole of Kansas, who was traveling with him, supplied the answer: $100 billion.
Mr. D'Amato does address social issues. He almost always brings up crime, telling voters that he supports the death penalty for drug kingpins and that he sponsored legislation to impose mandatory sentences on criminals who use a gun when committing a crime. "Use a gun, you're away," he says, addressing imaginary street punks. "You're going to jail, gone. Kill somebody, you're gettin' the death penalty."
And ever since Mr. Abrams called him a "fascist," Mr. D'Amato has not missed an opportunity to stoke Italian-American resentment by repeating the insult -- and enlarging upon it.
"I'm not going to get into the area that is most painful to me these recent days," he told 150 members of the Hudson Valley chapter of American Ex-POWs, several days after the incident. Then, he promptly did. "But let me tell you something: I do resent being called a fascist. It's wrong. It has no place in the political system." His voice quivering with indignation, he added, "To raise the specter of Goebbels, that infamous Nazi, as he has done, is wrong."
Lately, he has added the specter of Bella Abzug and Gloria Steinem to his recitation, saying that Mr. Abrams "stood by and laughed" as the two feminists called Mr. D'Amato a "Nazi" at a recent rally.
Mr. D'Amato does not hold many public rallies -- he says they are inefficient. His appearances, which are almost always followed by a private fund-raising event, are before small groups and rarely last more than 10 minutes. They mainly serve as backdrops for news conferences with local television, radio and newspaper reporters.
Sometimes, the pretext vanishes altogether. An appearance billed by Mr. D'Amato's campaign as a visit to the Buffalo Chamber of Commerce last Wednesday turned out to be a visit to the front door of the chamber of commerce; Mr. D'Amato stood in front of the entrance in the Statler Towers and told Buffalo reporters that his opponent would wreak "economic devastation" on New York.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato campaigned yesterday among Orthodox Jews in Borough Park, Brooklyn. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); REPUBLICAN PARTY ; DEMOCRATIC PARTY AMERICAN LEGION (57%); AMERICAN LEGION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); REPUBLICAN PARTY ; DEMOCRATIC PARTY AMERICAN LEGION (57%); AMERICAN LEGION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; AGED; JEWS; VETERANS; LABOR VETERANS (91%); MILITARY BENEFITS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX INCREASES (86%); ELECTIONS (79%); NURSING HOMES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); MEDICARE (73%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (73%); TRENDS (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%); PERSONAL FINANCE (65%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN); ABRAMS, ROBERT (ATTY GEN); STANLEY, ALESSANDRA GEORGE W BUSH (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1992



874 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Off the Trail -- Visits With Americans;
Odd Source Of Comfort For Feminist

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DENVER, Oct. 20

 BODY:
Male curmudgeonliness would seem to offer scant comfort to Pat Blumenthal, a 36-year-old feminist, working mother and field organizer in the politics of abortion rights, where absorbing accusations of woman's self-villainy is a part of the job.
But, to her delight, a colleague with a VCR saved for her the most unexpected sound bite in long years of her campaign issue, a terse, snappish statement of exasperation at all the moralistic combat over abortion uttered by one of the most patriarchal-looking of sources, James B. Stockdale, Ross Perot's running mate. 
 "I believe a woman owns her own body and what she does with it is her own business, period," he grumbled in the Vice-Presidential debate, glowering about as manfully as any man on either side the issue, his shock of white hair punctuating the replay memorably for Ms. Blumenthal.
She missed the live debate in which the retired admiral broke through his befuddlement at public speaking to spit out his position favoring a woman's right to choice on abortion. That night, Ms. Blumenthal, state director here of the National Abortion Rights Action League, was busy overseeing phone banks, mailings, campaign volunteers and Election Day logistics plans, the pick-and-shovel tasks of field work that underpin, in this state alone, dozens of contests in which the pro's and cons of abortion are a critical issue.
 
The Message and the Medium
 "I loved it," she said of Mr. Stockdale's position. "He stripped away all the language of both sides that was simplistic. It took someone like him to do that; for a woman to get up and say it would not have the same effect."
This was a statement of special bias for her because normally, Ms. Blumenthal says, she is weary of the public oratory on both sides of the issue and prefers backstage organizing to dramatic exhortations. She has spent half her life on some painstaking, mundane organizing of community groups, working here on such issues as utility rates, a neighborhood's fight to keep its grocery store, the right to relocation for public housing residents and senior citizens' need for a pressure group.
In the abortion controversy, Ms. Blumenthal exemplifies the dual political levels and looks of the issue in a year when attention is on the Presidency. On the national front, the issue is being heard less than in previous campaigns as the economy dominates voters' concerns and President Bush finds less advantage in raising it in the face of polls showing increasing support for abortion rights.
But here in Colorado, one of the abortion-rights movement's earliest bastions of relatively liberal acceptance, the issue's importance is mushrooming in the face of the Supreme Court's increasingly nip-and-tuck defenses of a woman's abortion rights. The statehouse politics of the issue are growing across the nation following the Court's rulings liberalizing the states' authority to try to qualify those rights.
 
Rising to Political Challenge
 In the last three years, the Court's wavering has helped the Abortion Rights Action League's membership and activities boom as women who thought the issue was settled in 1973 decided they must step into the public realm to learn grass-roots politics and bolster sympathetic politicians.
"Three years ago when I'd call people, they'd say, 'If you call my office, don't say who you're with,' " Ms. Blumenthal recalled. "And they were absolutely afraid of our bumper stickers. Now they're all over the place and I hear people proudly talking about having brought up the issue at the office."
No less impressive, however, Ms. Blumenthal is still reeling from the shock of last spring when the Christian Coalition and other fundamentalist political action groups quietly mounted what proved to be a highly effective blitz of the state's normally sparsely attended caucus system. They elected cadres of anti-abortion delegates who engaged in a flurry of unexpected primary fights over the issue in both parties.
So as a result of both growing support and growing challenge, the Colorado Abortion Rights Action League, which was involved in only one state legislative contest two years ago, is using extensive phone banks, television advertizing and volunteer help to focus this fall on 10 races that Ms. Blumenthal has judged most winnable. Her group's endorsement was sought by dozens of state candidates and granted to 48 of them, including 16 who are in head-to-head fights with anti-abortion candidates.
 
Vows to Emulate Enemies
 "It was hard, it was humbling, and it was a warning," Ms. Blumenthal conceded about the caucus lesson dealt by the opposition, whose political savvy she admires and is vowing to emulate in preparing her own caucus blitz in the next round of state legislative elections.
This year, the national office of National Abortion Rights Action League has sent two extra workers into the state to run a high-profile special expenditure campaign on behalf of Representative Ben Nighthorse Campbell, a Democrat who is running for the Senate against former State Senator Terry Considine. This is attracting national attention, but Ms. Blumenthal says her local staff of five faces a much longer haul on the less-noticed, no-less-important state level of the issue.
"It doesn't go away here," she said, sounding like a precinct captain in the trenches. "We're tougher and we're more political, but if we want to be viable we have to show that not only are we pro-choice, but we are electorally capable of producing."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pat Blumenthal, right, Colorado's director of the National Abortion Rights Action League, found an unexpected ally in James B. Stockdale, Ross Perot's running mate, when he unequivocally defended abortion rights in the Vice-Presidential debate. Ms. Blumenthal spoke to her staff in Denver. (Michael Lewis for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (92%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ABORTION RIGHTS ACTION LEAGUE NARAL PRO-CHOICE (91%); NARAL PRO-CHOICE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ABORTION RIGHTS ACTION LEAGUE NARAL PRO-CHOICE (91%); NARAL PRO-CHOICE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); DENVER, CO, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ABORTION; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US); DEBATING ABORTION (93%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); POLITICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); MEN (79%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); WORKING MOTHERS (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (50%); PUBLIC HOUSING (50%); 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X; BLUMENTHAL, PAT; STOCKDALE, JAMES BOND GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1992



875 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: Housing Lottery in a Bastion of Affluence

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SOUTHAMPTON, L.I., Oct. 21

 BODY:
After six years of married life, two children, and a career path that had taken them to Newburgh and Syracuse, Gwen and Tom Pileski returned to their birthplace here a year ago and are still reeling from the shock.
For families like the Pileskis, she a 29-year-old nurse and he a 33-year-old corrections officer, this Long Island township ranks among the nation's least likely places to find affordable housing. With its manicured hedgerows and storybook estates, "even a rat trap costs more than we can afford," Mrs. Pileski said. 
 But for a select few, that will soon change.
In a government-subsidized housing program aimed squarely at the middle class, Southampton plans to build 30 houses, each on its own half-acre wooded lot adjoining a wilderness area, and each to be sold by lottery for less than $100,000.
"It's a long shot," said Mrs. Pileski, "but you don't pass up a chance like this."
 
Middle-Class Exodus
 Even before it was announced this week, rumors about the Southampton project had prompted more than 300 families, including the Pileskis, to seek applications for the lottery.
Now that it is official, the project's sponsors are bracing for an even bigger deluge of applicants seeking a piece of the fashionable Hamptons.
"Affordable housing is critical to us," said Fred Thiele, a 39-year-old native of Southampton and the town's Supervisor, who says that most of his contemporaries who grew up here have left, mainly because of housing costs.
"The perception of Southampton is one of glitz and wealth during the summer months," Mr. Thiele said. "But we have a lot of year-round residents who are struggling."
The affordable-housing program here is far from the first in the region. The programs have their roots in a broad national recognition, beginning in the 1980's, that lower-cost housing is needed not only for the poor, but also for the middle-income families of teachers, nurses, postal workers, plumbers and shopkeepers, people who have vital roles in the community but who cannot afford to live in the most affluent areas.
Most efforts have focused on the big cities. The New York City Housing Partnership, an eight-year-old group that uses state subsidies and inexpensive city-owned land, has built more than 7,000 homes, most of them attached town houses or multifamily buildings, and sold them for an average price of just over $75,000.
The Town of East Hampton, encompassing the lush summer resort areas at the eastern end of Long Island, has also been in the forefront of the push for affordable housing. It has built and sold more than 150 single-family homes since 1987, all on half-acre lots, for prices averaging under $80,000.
Still, "most of the suburbs have lagged behind," said Kathy Wilde, president of the New York City group. She estimated that an assortment of affordable-housing programs, involving government and private groups, has so far managed to build fewer than 2,000 homes in the New York suburbs of northern New Jersey, Westchester County, Fairfield County and on Long Island.
The homes planned here, and those already built in East Hampton, are unlikely to provide a useful model, because few communities have enough vacant land to set aside large lots for new homes. In most cases, experts say, making homes affordable means building them in dense clusters on small parcels of land.
The site to be developed here is hardly the most prestigious in Southampton, a township that includes some of the most affluent summer resorts in the Northeast, from Westhampton Beach to Bridgehampton
The 15-acre plot where the new homes are to be located is in East Quogue, just down a forested lane from the Montauk Highway, and next to a mobile home park.
 
3 Rms, Barrens Vu
 Still, even by the lofty standards of the Hamptons, the buyers of Southampton's affordable homes are certain to have attractive real estate. The site adjoins the Long Island Pine Barrens, a vast undeveloped tract along the geographical spine of the Island, and architectural plans dictate that each of the homes be built in a saltbox or cape style that conforms to the 17th- and 18th-century legacy of the area. Ten of the houses are to have two bedrooms, and 20 will have three bedrooms. Most will have two bathrooms, and will have a one-car garage and kitchen appliances, but basements are offered only as an option at added cost to the buyers.
The town, which is working with the Long Island Housing Partnership, was able to obtain the land in part because of the region's soft real estate market. The land had been owned by a major developer, Patrick Malloy 3d, who was unable to obtain zoning changes that he sought during the mid-1980's to build luxury homes. He then donated the site to Southampton in 1990 after the market for expensive homes had evaporated.
With free land, Southampton obtained subsidies from New York State, which maintains a large pool of affordable-housing grants. Each house completed in the project is to receive $25,000 in state subsidies.
With most of the financial details worked out, "marketing is going to be the easy part," said Jim Morgo, president of the Long Island Housing Partnership, which has hired architects and builders, and will act as developer. "There is going to be enormous demand."
 
Several Restrictions
 Southampton officials have not set a date for the lottery, but it will be before the end of the year. Construction is expected to begin in the spring, they said, and the houses will be completed by the end of October 1993.
To qualify for the homes, buyers must have household incomes below the median for Long Island, which is $55,000 a year for a family of four. They must also be first-time home buyers, and promise to remain in the homes for at least 10 years.
Anyone who buys one of the homes and sells it in less than 10 years will be required to pay back part of the $25,000 in state subsidies that have been granted for the home.
For those who live outside Southampton Township, the project offers little chance for a housing windfall. Although precise rules of the lottery have not yet been determined, town officials said they plan to give preference to Southampton residents, and might even give the highest priority to families who already live in East Quogue.
 
Cramped Living Conditions
 Among those who have already asked for applications are Janet DiBari, a 32-year-old nurse, and her husband, Nicholas, a 29-year-old maintenance worker.
Mrs. DiBari, who grew up in Southampton, said that remaining here with her family has been a financial struggle. Although the DiBaris have looked for homes they could afford, she said the closest thing they had seen was an old, dilapidated hulk priced at $125,000. That house would have required another $125,000 in repairs to make it habitable, she said.
For now, the DiBaris and their 2-year-old daughter, Christina, live in a cramped three-room cottage they rent from her parents, and talk constantly about whether it might make more economic sense to leave Southampton.
But that would all change if they win the Southampton affordable-housing lottery.
"There are only 30 houses, but our chances are as good an anybody's," Mr. DiBari said. "We are going for it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nicholas and Janet DiBari have asked for an application for a lottery of proposed government-subsidized homes for the middle class in Southampton, L.I. They put their daughter Christina to bed last week. (Michael Shavel for The New York Times) (pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EAST QUOGUE (NY); SOUTHAMPTON (NY) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; LOTTERIES HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); FAMILY (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); MARRIAGE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); RESORTS (73%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (72%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); RETAILERS (68%); RANKINGS (56%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (56%); WILDERNESS (53%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J TOM PILESKI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1992



876 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: Sanford Renews Tough Senate Race

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: FAYETTEVILLE, N.C., Oct. 24

 BODY:
Senator Terry Sanford, at 75 the grand old man of North Carolina politics, returned to the campaign trail today after two weeks in the hospital to have a heart valve replaced.
He spoke briefly, saying it "sure is good to be back home" where his political career began, and introduced Senator Al Gore, the Democratic Vice-Presidential candidate, who told a roaring crowd, "We need Terry Sanford back in the Senate to help bring change." 
 But whether the Senate's oldest freshman will win a second term seems more in doubt than any other statewide race here, including the Democratic Presidential effort. Senator Sanford, who campaigns on a record that dates back beyond his governorship in the early 1960's, faces a stiff challenge from a former friend, Lauch (pronounced LOCK) Faircloth.
In the two weeks the Senator was hospitalized, momentum in the race shifted to Mr. Faircloth, whose campaign has hammered the incumbent with harsh television advertisements.
 
Ex-Democratic Fund-Raiser
 The challenger is a 64-year-old businessman and farmer who has never held elective office but has raised money for the Democrats and was appointed tp high-level jobs by various governors, including Mr. Sanford.
In September, a month before his hospitalization and before the television barrage began, Mr. Sanford held a big lead and said in an interview that the race "looks too good to be true."
It was.
Democrats say their polling shows Mr. Sanford was barely ahead on Thursday, when he left the hospital, although he has gained a bit since. On the same day Mr. Faircloth told Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the Senate minority leader, that "we're a little ahead and gaining."
Carter Wrenn, executive director of the National Congressional Club, a political action committee that has helped Senator Jesse Helms and other North Carolina conservatives, said Friday that the race was within two or three percentage points either way.
Mr. Sanford predicted victory at a peppery news conference in Raleigh on Friday. He said his campaign had lagged in his absence, but added: "I've got time to catch up. I've got the energy to catch up. I've got friends to help me catch up."
 
Aspects of a Blood Feud
 He will need them all in what looks like a blood feud. While neither candidate discusses it, political insiders say the friendship broke up six years ago when Mr. Sanford, after a lifetime in North Carolina politics, decided to run for the Senate seat that had been held by James T. Broyhill, a Republican Congressman who was appointed to fill a vacancy caused by the death of John East. Mr. Faircloth, then a Democrat, felt it was his turn.
Mr. Faircloth became a Republican in February 1991, after Mr. Sanford voted against United States military action in the Persian Gulf. While that vote has not figured in this campaign yet, at the time it seemed like a great risk for a Southern Democrat.
Mr. Faircloth makes brief speeches before friendly audiences. He usually keeps attacks on his rival under wraps, although today in Asheville he called Mr. Sanford "controlled, bought and owned by the labor unions."
But Mr. Faircloth's real campaigning is done on television. And it is almost unceasingly negative. He portrays Mr. Sanford as a "big-spending Washington politician" and "too liberal." And, to play on the age and health issue, Mr. Sanford's pictures make him look old and feeble.
 
Against Kennedy and Welfare
 Much of the advertising campaign looks like golden oldies from the Congressional Club. Mr. Faircloth is running against Senator Edward M. Kennedy and welfare, just the way Senator Helms and other Carolina politicians have before.
Mr. Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat who is a totem of liberal evil here, is presented as the beneficiary of a Sanford vote for a highway bill that included a tunnel in Boston. Welfare, a traditional way of raising racial issues in Carolina politics, is brought in by ads portraying Mr. Sanford as a patron of welfare recipients.
Mr. Sanford, whose fund-raising efforts lagged when he was hospitalized, is on television, too, denigrating Mr. Faircloth's character, saying he conducted private business on the state payroll and labeling him a "front man for the Congressional Club."
At the news conference on Friday Mr. Sanford said he would get back out on the trail right away and campaign on issues like the economy and education. And he seemed ready for a scrape, grimacing as he said his foe's "youthful conduct" might become an issue and ridiculing arguments by Mr. Faircloth and Jack Hawke, the 51-year-old Republican state chairman, that his health and age made it doubtful he could complete another term.
The Senator took out an old-fashioned ear trumpet, saying Mr. Faircloth needed it because he wore a hearing aid. And he added that even though "I won't promise to go to Jack Hawke's funeral, I'll at least send a message."
He is getting a lot of help. Four Democratic Senators, though not Mr. Kennedy, have campaigned here for him. North Carolina Democrats are even more active. Former Gov. Jim Hunt, who is favored to win his old job back, campaigns for Mr. Sanford at every stop. And Johnsie Setzer, a fund-raiser, said she had spent today on the phone, urging freinds to help him.
Mr. Hunt said of the Senate race: "We can win it, but we've got to pull out all the stops. I'm pushing Terry everywhere. A lot of these people are not for him, but I'm pushing him."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Terry Sanford of North Carolina talked with reporters on Saturday, the day after he left the hospital after heart surgery. Momentum in his re-election race shifted to his opponent during the hospitalization; Lauch Faircloth is challenging Senator Terry Sanford. (Photographs by Duane Hall for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (50%); 

CITY: RALEIGH, NC, USA (73%); FAYETTEVILLE, NC, USA (64%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY NATIONAL CONGRESSIONAL CLUB (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY NATIONAL CONGRESSIONAL CLUB (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTH CAROLINA UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (50%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (73%); FAYETTEVILLE, NC, USA (64%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); APPOINTMENTS (88%); ELECTIONS (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (67%); EXECUTIVES (63%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; SANFORD, TERRY (SEN); FAIRCLOTH, LAUCH AL GORE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1992



877 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Wallace Journal;
A Town Loses Jobs, Then Celebrates

BYLINE: By FRANCES FRANK MARCUS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALLACE, La.

 BODY:
There was a celebration here recently for an occasion that would have caused despair in many other places: the cancellation of plans for a new industrial plant and its promise of hundreds of jobs.
The jobs, about 1,000 of them full time and 800 temporary, would have come with a $700 million wood pulp and rayon plant that the Formosa Plastics Corporation, which is based in Taiwan, planned to build here. 
 For decades Wallace, a mostly black rural village halfway between Baton Rouge and New Orleans, was ignored. But as the economy sagged and politicians sought foreign investment, a 1,740-acre plantation here was chosen by Formosa as the site of what would have been the world's largest wood pulp and rayon plant.
The plans were canceled in early October after bitter opposition by a coalition of environmentalists, preservationists and black residents here. They said they favor jobs but not more industrial pollution and damage to what is left of plantation country.
"My fight was not against jobs," Wilfred M. Greene, a 70-year-old retired school principal, said at the coalition's jambalaya and beer party at the Friends of Charity Hall here on Oct. 16. "My fight was against equating your life with jobs. That's wrong."
A Formosa official says the company canceled the project because the Environmental Protection Agency required a statement on the plant's effect on the environment, delaying construction, and because of a lawsuit filed by the owner of a neighboring plantation, Evergreen.
But the coalition had a part in it, too. For three years its members lobbied, nagged the environmental agency and gathered statistics on the plant's potential emissions.
"The plant would have discharged 16 billion gallons of waste water each year into the Mississippi River, which is the drinking water supply for more than a million people downstream in the New Orleans area," said William Fontenot, a state environmental specialist. "And the company would have needed about 8,000 tons of hardwood every day."
The coalition knows that the issue is a microcosm of a war that Louisiana now faces: jobs versus costs to the environment. And that war is being fought here in St. John the Baptist Parish, which straddles the Mississippi. The East Bank drew the heavy industry. Wallace, on the West Bank, was left with a view of smokestacks spewing clouds of steam into the air.
Not everyone is happy with the coalition's victory. Prof. Loren Scott of Louisiana State University calls the cancellation "a very big hit" to the state. The plant's economic effect, he said, would have been considerable.
High school dropouts could once find work at oil and chemical companies fairly easily. But in the last 11 years, 52,000 jobs were lost in the oil industry, and 3,500 jobs were lost in the chemical industry.
There have been changes in technology, too. "Plants have become more automated," Professor Scott said, "and now require fewer people with better skills."
The parish had already begun remedial high school education to prepare residents for jobs in the Formosa plant. Delton Arceneaux, the parish's director of economic development, said more than 1,000 people showed up recently to apply for a test to determine whether they met the minimum level of skills required for a job at the plant. That, he said, "shows you how hungry people are."
Parish records show that of 150 applicants who were tested, two-thirds scored below the 10th-grade level in reading and mathematics.
Next door to the party, Jessie Allen, who owns Allen's Bridge View Grocery and Deli, said: "I see nothing to celebrate. They're celebrating that young people are not going to get jobs. Formosa was to many of the people here a dream come true."
As for pollution, she said: "We've put up with pollution from plants that are already here. People here work in grain elevators and chemical plants. Anywhere, when you get out of bed in the morning you step into danger."
At the party Mr. Greene, the retired school principal, recalled the Formosa officials who tried to buy the riverfront land owned by his family since 1874. "They came in like carpetbaggers with bags of money," he said. "I had reached the point where I was willing to lose my property in the defense of it."

GRAPHIC: Map of Louisiana showing the location of Wallace.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 1301 (TAIEX) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325220 ARTIFICIAL & SYNTHETIC FIBERS & FILAMENTS MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (83%); 

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORMOSA PLASTICS CORP (83%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WALLACE (LA) TAIWAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); CHEMICALS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (88%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); ARTIFICIAL & SYNTHETIC FIBERS MFG (77%); CHEMICALS MFG (77%); PULP INDUSTRY (76%); WATER POLLUTION (73%); EMISSIONS (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (73%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); LAYOFFS (70%); LOBBYING (70%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (66%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (55%); SUITS & CLAIMS (51%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); LITIGATION (50%); 

PERSON: MARCUS, FRANCES FRANK

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1992



878 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: Flap Over Value of Stock Options

BYLINE: By ALISON LEIGH COWAN

 BODY:
John S. Reed is not a man too many people pick fights with. As the chairman of Citicorp, the country's largest bank, Mr. Reed is one of the nation's most powerful bankers and a prominent member of the Business Roundtable, an influential group of chief executives. So why is Gary L. Roubos, the chief executive of a much smaller company, calling Mr. Reed an ostrich?
The squabble involves how stock options are valued on a company's books. Last week, the Securities and Exchange Commission ruled that companies had to provide, in their reports to shareholders, some value for the stock options granted to executives. 
 But it stopped short of forcing companies to deduct that value from their earnings as they would other business expenses. That unpleasant task now falls to the Financial Accounting Standards Board in Norwalk, Conn., which makes accounting rules for the private sector.
 
 
Question of Cost
 Most chief executives clearly prefer the current rules, which allow companies to hand out as many stock options as they like without reducing their net earnings. Changing the rules, they feel, would only spotlight big pay packages and make some boards more reluctant to approve the deals.
The Business Roundtable is campaigning to convince the rule makers that options have no real cost, or at least that the cost cannot be measured reliably. But Mr. Roubos, chairman of the Dover Corporation, a New York-based manufacturing company with $2.2 billion in sales last year, thinks the group's view is dead wrong.
Though Mr. Roubos declined to be interviewed, Dover confirmed that he had sent a letter on July 2 stating his views on the subject to the Business Roundtable's policy committee and to Mr. Reed, who is the group's top policy maker on accounting issues.
 
 
Public Attention
 "It is ostrich-like to pretend that a stock option has no value at the time of grant," Mr. Roubos wrote jointly with his company's vice president for finance, John F. McNiff. "Corporate America undermines its credibility by trying to maintain this obvious fiction at a time when the spotlight of public, regulatory, and Congressional attention is focused on it."
Mr. Roubos's letter expresses a view already shared by many economists, accountants, politicians and shareholders, all of whom would like to see options treated on the books like all other major forms of compensation -- as an expense. But Mr. Roubos is the first chief executive to make the case.
Because stock options typically give executives the right to buy stock at a fixed price at any time for 10 years, the letter concedes that experts may disagree on the award's exact value on the day it is granted. But the letter asserts that an estimate, however rough, would be better than no number at all.
The letter also hints that continued inaction on the issue could jeopardize the tax deduction that companies take for the estimated cost of options when they are exercised.
 
 
'Ahead of Our Critics'
 "Pretending that option grants, however useful or appropriate, are somehow 'free' will increase the likelihood of our having to live with some other ideas becoming the rule," the letter states. It notes several proposals in Washington concerning executive pay issues, such as letting shareholders determine executive pay levels and placing limits on how much compensation expense companies can deduct from their taxes, an idea Gov. Bill Clinton has embraced.
"For once, let's get out ahead of our critics -- especially on a technical point where they are so obviously correct," the letter concludes.
A spokesman for the Business Roundtable said the letter was "the only one I'm aware of that took that position" and that it did not alter the group's view on the subject.
"The question of valuation is one that we've looked at, and certainly there are a number of experts who agree with us that it's a tricky thing to do with any kind of real accuracy," the spokesman said.
Analysts who follow Dover are not surprised by the letter. They note that Dover's management has always been candid about everything from cash flow to year-to-year performance in its shareholders reports. And Mr. Roubos can take the position he has, they say, because his company can afford it.
 
 
Modest Options
 Dover, which makes elevators and other industrial products, has made tens of millions of dollars every year since Mr. Roubos took charge in 1981. Still, the company has used options modestly. Last year, Mr. Roubos received cash compensation of $765,000, a $39,875 long-term bonus, plus 19,110 options, a benefit that consultants value at about $266,000. The entire employee group, including Mr. Roubos, received options valued at about $2.9 million.
If the company had to reduce its earnings by the estimated value of its stock options, the result would be only a slight dent in the $204.1 million in pretax earnings the company had last year.
Like Mr. Roubos, Mr. Reed has not been among the largest receivers of stock options. Last year, Citicorp awarded him a $1.2 million salary, plus 300,000 options valued at about $687,420. It gave another $11.1 million of options to its other employees. But since Citicorp's earnings tend to be erratic, a charge against earnings for the value of the options could be more noticeable to shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DOV (NYSE) (82%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333996 FLUID POWER PUMP & MOTOR MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS333911 PUMP & PUMPING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS332410 POWER BOILER & HEAT EXCHANGER MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (56%); NEW YORK, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC); BUSINESS ROUNDTABLE DOVER CORP (82%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); BUSINESS ROUNDTABLE (84%); BUSINESS ROUNDTABLE (84%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (56%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC); BUSINESS ROUNDTABLE SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); BUSINESS ROUNDTABLE (84%); BUSINESS ROUNDTABLE (84%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (56%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (56%); NEW YORK, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; STOCK OPTIONS AND PURCHASE PLANS; CORPORATIONS STOCK OPTIONS (92%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); SALES FIGURES (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); APPROVALS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); 

PERSON: COWAN, ALISON LEIGH; REED, JOHN S; ROUBOS, GARY L JACK REED (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1992



879 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: Hard Times, Even on Rodeo Drive

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BEVERLY HILLS, Calif., Oct. 25

 BODY:
In a memorable scene from the movie "Pretty Woman," a prostitute played by Julia Roberts goes into a boutique on Rodeo Drive here only to be turned away by snooty sales clerks who say they have nothing in her size.
For years, snobbery has been a hallmark of this city of wealth and glamour, movie stars and entertainment honchos, where it is possible to spend $20,000 for a watch, $6,000 for a suit with 14-karat gold pinstriping or $15,000 for a handbag of rare leather. 
 But business and community leaders here say that in these hard economic times even Beverly Hills can no longer afford to be so exclusive. A sharp decline in sales of luxury items, a glut of commercial real estate and a dearth of tourists in the last two years are changing its retail landscape.
 
'Open Arms' Policies
 To attract a broader customer base, even at the risk of bringing in buyers previously deemed to lack the right "look," retailers have adopted "open arms" policies, training their staffs to be less discriminating and to push low-ticket as hard as high-ticket items.
To fill vacancies that began to appear for the first time two years ago, the city is bringing in retailers that previously would not have met its snob quotient like Guess Jeans and Banana Republic. "These new stores will bring in more excitement and a broader spectrum of customers," said Donald Tronstein, who owns three buildings that house 11 shops on Rodeo Drive. "We are cultivating people who will graduate to the couture line in a few years."
Not everyone seems as captivated by the notion.
Asked if they welcomed moderately priced retailers like Guess, which plans to open a 7,000-square-foot-store at 411 Rodeo Drive at month's end, most shop owners on the drive declined to comment. But an owner of a women's boutique several doors from the new Guess shop said: "What can you do? It's a sign of the times. I'm just thankful it's Guess and not the Gap. That would be horrendous."
Yet more midline merchandise may be on the way. The chamber and the city are trying to promote Beverly Hills as an "outdoor shopping mall" with something for everyone. As part of that effort, the city is helping retailers negotiate lower rents and eliminate red tape. In the past, many businesses avoided a Beverly Hills address because of the exorbitant rents and the bureaucratic morass they met in obtaining a license to operate a new enterprise.
 
'Warmer and Friendlier'
 "We are a warmer and friendlier society," said Bill Boyd, executive director of the Beverly Hills Chamber of Commerce. "We want people to come here and spend $10 to $10,000."
There are four main shopping fares here. Rodeo Drive, the most celebrated, is known mostly for its high-priced boutiques; Wilshire Boulevard, for its expensive department stores; Beverly Boulevard, for its basic American merchandise, and Robertson Boulevard, for its broad mix of shops.
But in recent years, all these addresses have faced increased competition from new malls like the Beverly Center and the West Side Pavilion. Meanwhile, a persistent recession and the riots in Los Angeles have greatly reduced the number of tourists to the area. In addition, it is now de rigueur for the rich to dress more modestly.
Many stores are trying to offset declines in sales by pushing moderately priced merchandise. "Instead of selling a lot of $700 jean jackets," Mr. Boyd said, "some stores are selling dozens of signature T-shirts to people who can't afford to buy but are browsing and want to take something home from Beverly Hills."
Carroll & Company, a men's store that has been on Rodeo Drive for 42 years and caters to the business establishment, is now offering a moderately priced line of contemporary clothing for younger men, called John Carroll, named for the son of the owner, Robert Carroll.
 
Attracting Younger Customers
 "For decades we catered to the successful businessman," John Carroll said, "but that customer base is now shrinking and we have had to adjust to attract the younger man who can't afford $1,500 for a suit or $1,000 for a sweater."
Donald M. Tallarico, who owns Tallarico jewelers on Rodeo Drive, where a typical piece of jewelry costs about $20,000, said his sales were off by 30 percent in the last year mainly because of a shift in spending patterns by the rich to more conservative items. For example, instead of buying a showy $50,000 platinum bracelet suitable for parties, customers are more likely to buy a more versatile gold and diamond piece for $25,000, he said.
The jeweler said that some days more than 20 people wandered into the store and other days no one called. "Our sales people are not walking around with their noses in the air, I can tell you that," Mr. Tallarico said. "When business walks through that door, we grab it. But you know you have to be pretty confident in your taste to walk in a store of this nature," referring to the shop's bright white carpet, which he said many people found intimidating.
Winnie Schweitzer owns three Rodeo Drive designer stores, Krizia, Ungaro and Gianfranco Ferre. Her sales, which come mainly from a wealthy foreign clientele, have dropped 30 percent in the last year because of the recession and the decline in tourism, especially from Japan. "It's a big change," she said. "Over all, business is much tougher and we would welcome new business from right here at home."
 
Holding Their Own
 Some shop owners say that business has never been better and that they have always treated all customers well. Lois Petren, a marketing representative for the Polo Store on Rodeo, said that sales were up and that high-priced items continued to move. "People are not intimidated in our store, and that's why we continue to have good traffic," Ms. Petren said. "We work very hard to make everyone feel important. It's a very traditional, old world approach to retailing, and it works."
Despite a big drop in tourism here, some shop owners say they are holding their own because they have a strong local customer base. "The key to success on this street is not to rely on the casual customer or tourist," said Francine Bardo, managing director of the House of Hermes. "We are more community oriented, and our longtime customers keep coming back."
But the recession has clearly forced some Beverly Hills businesses to close. Beverly Hills had a surplus of commercial space for the first time two years ago when there was 1.7 million square feet of vacant space, or a 26.2 percent vacancy rate in July 1990. That has declined to 1.1 million square feet, or a 17.3 percent vacancy rate as of July 1992, mainly because of the city's effort to woo new businesses, according to the city's Chamber of Commerce.
City officials have been actively recruiting new businesses, especially entertainment companies, law firms and banking concerns. Playboy Enterprises, ICM International, Chase Manhattan and United Talent Agencies recently opened offices here.
"The biggest negative we have working against us is that people believe they can't shop or operate a business in Beverly Hills," said Mark Scott, the city manager. "They think that it's just too expensive. But people are starting to realize that rents have gone down and that has brought in new types of business and perhaps a new approach."

GRAPHIC: Photos: To fill vacancies like this on Rodeo Drive, which began to appear for the first time two years ago, Beverly Hills is trying to attract retailers that previously would not have appealed to a wealthy clientele.; Carroll & Company, a men's store that has been on Rodeo Drive for 42 years and caters to the business establishment, is now offering a moderately priced line of contemporary clothing for younger men, called John Carroll, named for the owner's son, above. (Photographs by Michael Tweed for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Uneasy Street" shows the number of sales and tax receipts in the City of Beverly Hills from 1988-1992. (Source: Beverly Hills Chamber of Commerce) (pg. D3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: BANANA REPUBLIC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BEVERLY HILLS (CALIF) UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS RETAILERS (92%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); CLOTHING LABELS (77%); HAUTE COUTURE (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (73%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (69%); TRENDS (69%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN JULIA ROBERTS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1992



880 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: The Economy's Final Report Card Before Election

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 25

 BODY:
Voters may react mainly to what happens to jobs and wallets. Economists respond to other measures, including the broadest and most revealing indicator of economic performance, which comes each quarter when the Commerce Department adds up the dollar value of all goods and services produced on American soil.
With publication of that figure, the gross domestic product, on Tuesday -- a week before Election Day -- President Bush may get one final chance to contend that the economy has finally begun to emerge from the rare limbo between recession and recovery in which it has hovered since mid-1991. 
 Many recent major indicators -- the balance of trade and industrial production, for instance, have been downbeat, although Mr. Bush has complained that not enough attention had been paid to several positive signs, including low inflation and a drop in the weekly number of new claims for unemployment benefits.
 
Employment and Unemployment
 Mr. Bush told a campaign rally on Saturday, for example, that the news media were not announcing that the employment rate was 93 percent. In the latest monthly figures, the Labor Department reported that the unemployment rate was 7.5 percent -- which is what most of the news media reported -- while 57,000 nonfarm payroll jobs had been lost, a number that economists look at more closely than the unemployment rate.
On balance, the recent economic news has prompted widespread trimming of expectations for the July-September quarter.
Many private analysts now expect the gross domestic product to rise at an annual rate of less than 1.5 percent, the pace recorded in the spring. On the other hand, given the economic and methodological uncertainties, growth might be significantly higher.
"A number above 2 would be great for the President," acknowledged Laurence H. Meyer, a man with ties to the Clinton campaign who heads a consulting firm in St. Louis bearing his name. "Two and a half would be a tremendous boost."
But the most likely cause of such a figure would be a surge in inventories, and that would be a mixed economic blessing at best, many economists say. They tend to view higher inventories more as the result of involuntary buildups of unsold material than of newly optimistic retailers intentionally stocking more goods.
And even the a strong G.D.P. report would not necessarily translate into votes, asserted Neil S. Newhouse, a partner in Public Opinion Strategies, a Virginia firm that polls on behalf of Republicans. "The only mileage you can make is if it reinforces what Americans already feel," Mr. Newhouse said. "In the absence of other positive signs it's probably too late to have a significant impact on the election."
Another report to be released on Tuesday will come from the the Conference Board, a business research group based in New York that surveys consumer confidence each month, and here there is little expectation of signficant improvement. The consumer sector has been one of the few to show a bit of spark lately, at least in part involving replacement of hurricane losses, but September's third straight monthly decline in confidence, to 56.4, suggests this may not be sustained.
No matter how high the third-quarter G.D.P., moreover, it will not inspire the country's designated arbiter of business cycles -- the dating committee of the National Bureau of Economic Research -- to announce the formal end to the lingering recession that began in July 1990. For one thing, such a call so close to Election Day would probably be politically explosive, even though the chief arbiter, Robert Hall, a Stanford economics professor, has insisted that the election would not prevent such a call if the evidence demanded it. But the committee's own benchmarks, more diverse than just the G.D.P., still do not justify it.
A sixth straight quarter of economic expansion, even if token expansion, might seem evidence enough to pronounce the recession over. If two quarterly contractions in a row constitute recession, as popular shorthand has it, then why shouldn't 18 months of uninterrupted expansion bring recession to an end?
Indeed, Tuesday's report of a sixth straight expanding quarter will almost certainly show the economy finally surpassing the level of the second quarter of 1990. In other words, it will have regained all the ground lost during its three negative quarters -- the final one in 1990 and the first two in 1991.
 
Small Quarterly Gains
 But the quarterly gains so far have averaged only 1.6 percent a year, barely one-quarter of the first-year average for postwar recoveries and only half the pace needed to keep unemployment from rising.
The seven members of the dating committee, all academicians, use far more than than the G.D.P. to determine economic peaks and troughs. These are implied in the National Bureau's formal definition of recession: "a recurring period of decline in total output, income, employment and trade, usually lasting from six months to a year and marked by widespread contractions in many sectors of the economy."
Specifically, the committee monitors industrial production, nonfarm payrolls, factory and trade sales, and personal income excluding transfer payments like Social Security benefits, crop subsidies and interest on Treasury securities. It also gives some weight to the G.D.P. Of the five indicators, three remain below pre-recession levels.
Still, formal determination of the end of the longest of the nation's nine postwar recessions may not be far off. In an interview today, Professor Hall allowed that it "could be before" early 1993. Tuesday's report, he said, is likely to "begin to set the stage."
Nevertheless, 17 months have elapsed since May 1991, the month many analysts think will be designated as the recession's end, suggesting unusual caution by the committee. It took nine months, until April 1991, to announce the onset of the latest recession, and only six months and eight months, respectively, to call the beginning and end of the sharper recession of 1981-1982.
 
Factors Hampering Recovery
 "I assume they don't want to have to say down the road that they were wrong," said Robert G. Dederick, chief economist for the Northern Trust Company in Chicago.
Some of the more obvious factors preventing brisk recovery are heavy debt burdens, decreased prices of real estate and other tangible assets, a shrinking military contracting industry and reticence by banks to lend money to human customers when an exceptionally steep yield curve -- longer-term interest rates much higher than short ones -- provides almost irresistible returns for risk-free loans to the Government.
But economists seem inclined to reject the notion that months of political speeches about a poor economy, even when misrepresented and for a time unchallenged by a Bush Administration fearful of being deemed out of touch, do much to damage consumer or business psyches.
"This may not have helped any, but it's not clear it hurt," commented Donna Zerwitz, spokeswoman for the National Bureau. She said this was because sentiment, which on the Conference Board's gauge hit a 17-year low of 47.3 in February, had dropped so far before the campaign started.
One of the more sober views of the upcoming G.D.P. figures is that of Michael P. Niemira, economist at Mitsubishi Bank in New York. He predicts a 2 percent rate of growth for the third quarter, a bit less than before the latest trade figures were released, but says that "arithmetic" will make the gain appear much better than it is.
Consumption will prove unsustainable, he said, while a boost from inventories will "evaporate" in the fourth quarter. Periods like this, when recovery is just under way and lowered interest rates help release some pent-up demand, Mr. Niemira added, usually show the best growth of the business cycle. If the best is already at hand, he mused, the future could be grim indeed.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "They Don't Make Recoveries the Way They Used To" shows the real gross domestic product in the first year and a half after the end of each of the four previous recessions, 1969-70 (trough Nov. 1970), 1973-75 (trough March 1975), 1980 (trough June), 1981-82 (trough Nov. 1982) and 1990-91? (trhough not yet declared). (Sources: Bureau of Economic Analysis; Datastream)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (GDP) ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); RECESSION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); RETAILERS (72%); STATISTICS (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1992



881 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1508 words

HEADLINE: STRICTLY BUSINESS;
A Lament of One Landlord: From Riches to Rags

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
It is a typical day at Equities Ltd., the 11 tenement buildings in East Harlem that Harley Brooke-Hitching so loftily named when she bought them.
A pregnant woman, homeless until now, sits with the office manager doing paperwork that will enable her to get city subsidies to live in one of Ms. Brooke-Hitching's 180 apartments. The woman is thrilled that she won't have to give birth in a shelter. 
 Ms. Brooke-Hitching pats her softly on the shoulder as she steps outside into the ceaseless salsa beat of the barrio. This slight, 40-something, redheaded woman seems an unlikely candidate for her chosen vocation: as a private landlord renting to poor and nearly poor New Yorkers in a troubled neighborhood, she is either a crucial provider of low-cost housing or a slumlord, depending on one's point of view. In either case, her risky real-estate speculation may yet prove her undoing.
Her father was a British aristocrat, her mother from Oklahoma, where she was born. She grew up on both sides of the Atlantic, was a high-school cheerleader in Oklahoma City and studied art at the Sorbonne. Early jobs included setting up an exclusive club for well-heeled visitors to London and opening an Amsterdam office for Sotheby's.
After a short marriage to an international banker, she stayed on in Bangkok and became a large and successful dealer in Asian art. She raised her son, Matthew, now 18, as a single mother, came to New York in 1980 and proceeded to make a small killing on co-op conversions.
She is the founding chairwoman of City Harvest, a charity distributing surplus food to the needy. She carries a licensed handgun.
Ms. Brooke-Hitching, who lives in an airy Upper East Side apartment that opens into a 37-foot-long greenhouse, came north to Harlem in 1985 to profit from the soaring real-estate market. She reasoned that you could multiply your fun by buying more for less in a marginal neighborhood. She bought her buildings one by one, flipping a couple of early ones -- industry jargon for immediately selling a newly purchased property -- as if to prove her intuition.
Then things got tough. Part of it is the drugs and the crime that seem only to worsen. Mute testimony occupies a dish on her desk: it is full of spent shells she collected in and around her buildings.
The value of her 11 buildings rose by 1989 to $4.5 million from the $3.1 million she paid for them, but it has surely fallen since. Today, she says she would be very lucky to get back the purchase price.
A bigger problem looms. Costs have skyrocketed -- from taxes to water and sewage fees to oil costs -- and relief is nowhere in sight. And like many owners, she paid too much. Perhaps most ominously, she signed personally for a number of loans.
It is scant wonder Ms. Brooke-Hitching lies awake nights worrying that her entire $3.5 million investment -- including $1.1 million in cash -- will be lost.
 
A Worry for Tenants, Too
 The stakes may be higher still for the more than 600 people she houses in apartments that fetch from $79 a month for a rent-controlled one-bedroom to $720 for a newly renovated three-bedroom.
Her little real-estate empire, with its cab drivers who sleep in shifts and aromas bespeaking faraway places, is made up of the kind of dwellings familiar to millions of New Yorkers.
She greets a hairdresser from the Ivory Coast who has lived in an Equities apartment for two years and is frequently frightened in this often cold city. She again unsuccessfully tries to persuade some tenants from Mexico, new arrivals, that they could sell more flowers if they arranged them more smartly.
She stops at the apartment of Ndao Daouda, who came to America from Senegal in 1984 with $47 and now peddles T-shirts and socks on East 116th Street. Mr. Daouda is the one who visits her when one of her many Senegalese tenants has a complaint or can't pay rent on time. "When we talk together, we understand each other," said the man Ms. Brooke-Hitching calls "the diplomat."
 
Major Source of Housing
 It is impossible to overstate the importance of this type of privately owned housing in New York City's struggling neighborhoods. Over the last decade, the million immigrants to this region have settled mainly in places like this. So will the million more expected this decade.
Of the million welfare recipients in New York City, many also end up in such housing. So, too, do the working poor. One of Ms. Brooke-Hitching's tenants is a Mexican man who commutes to Brooklyn to work 12 hours a day in a Korean grocery.
The Citizens Housing and Planning Council calculates that there are 350,000 units of private housing in areas of New York City with a poverty rate over 25 percent. At least twice as many people live in such private housing as in projects run by the Housing Authority.
The true number is obscured by the doubling and tripling up of families in apartments. This is a direct result of the impossible cost of living in New York City: the median rent of a two-bedroom apartment is $600 -- about twice welfare's housing allowance for a family of three, and far beyond the reach of most immigrants.
"Literally half the people who live in this city don't earn what it takes to pay for housing here," said Kathryn Wylde, senior vice president of the New York City Housing Partnership.
So they make do. They combine welfare, jobs in the underground economy, whatever. And they find apartments like those offered by Ms. Brooke-Hitching.
 
Not the Ritz
 To be sure, the accommodations in some such buildings are shameful. Repairs are infrequent, heat and hot water chancy at best. Some landlords physically threaten tenants and illegally enter their apartments, Ms. Brooke-Hitching said.
The problem is that poor New Yorkers desperately need somewhere to live, and landlords who cater to them claim to be an endangered species. Though it is the same complaint some have been making since time immemorial, the case is gathering weight.
"Private property owners have never faced the steepness of the hill they've got in front of them right now," said John Gilbert, president of the Rent Stabilization Association, composed of 25,000 landlords. Under the rent-stabilization process, the city and state regulate the rent of about 60 percent of the city's rental housing.
Mr. Gilbert said 16 percent of all apartment buildings in the city are so pressed they are a year or more behind in property taxes.
The rapidly rising cost of water and sewer fees -- up 169 percent since 1987 -- is generating the most pain. And water fees have increased ten-fold and more for some buildings where water meters have been installed, as they must be in all buildings by 1997. Under rent regulations, these charges cannot be automatically passed on to tenants.
The Citizens Housing and Planning Council, which analyzes housing issues from a public-interest perspective, warns that 50,000 units of private rent-regulated housing are in "immediate jeopardy of lapsing into abandonment or city ownership."
Joseph B. Rose, executive director of the council, said, "We're on the brink of a precipice."
 
More Problems Loom
 Ms. Brooke-Hitching feels she might already be falling off a cliff. To be sure, some would say she speculated and lost, and that's part of the game.
But whether or not the injury is deserved, Ms. Brooke-Hitching complains that it is accompanied by much insult. Her scars range from routinely losing on her many trips to Housing Court -- a result, she says, of a pro-tenant bias there.
There is also the upcoming problem of stricter city standards on lead paint. Generations of paint cake the walls of the buildings and could be a huge expense to remove. Recycling garbage also proved difficult during a pilot program due to what Ms. Brooke-Hitching characterizes as tenant uncooperativeness. She paid many fines.
"Around here an environmental issue is not having your kid shot," she said.
On the plus side, Ms. Brooke-Hitching has paid for most major capital improvements, including new boilers, plumbing, windows and doors. Though it took two and a half years of waiting and a lawsuit against the city, she was allowed to raise rents 6 percent. The wait hurt her tenants perhaps as much as it did her: the rent increase was retroactive, leaving them owing large back-rent bills. What might have been another plus, lower interest rates, has not helped as much as it might have, as only 1 of her 11 mortgages is variable.
So the bills pile up. She owes $50,000 to an oil company and $60,000 in back taxes. The city has notified her that it will seize one building, the one more than a year behind in taxes, if she does not pay up.
She dimly remembers how she felt at the beginning, before a drug dealer gave her a black eye, before the girlfriend of a disheveled addict accused her of paying the man for sex. Before she risked losing her entire savings.
"I was so confident and optimistic," Harley Brooke-Hitching recalled. "I was fearless."
And now? "I feel like a rat in a cage."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Around here an environmental issue is not having your kid shot," said Harley Brooke-Hitching, a landlord who rents to poor and nearly poor New Yorkers in a troubled neighborhood. She spoke as her work crew repaired one of her 180 apartments in East Harlem. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); THAILAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); OKLAHOMA, USA (91%); 

CITY: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); 

COMPANY: EQUITIES LTD EQUITIES LTD (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EQUITIES LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (93%); THAILAND (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); OKLAHOMA, USA (91%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; LANDLORDS; RENTING AND LEASING REAL ESTATE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); WOMEN (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); AUCTIONS (72%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (72%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); FOOD CHARITIES (68%); SINGLE PARENTS (67%); ART DEALERS (65%); 

PERSON: BROOKE-HITCHING, HARLEY; MARTIN, DOUGLAS

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1992



882 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: Machine Tool Orders Up 16% After Industry's Trade Show

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT

 BODY:
Orders for American-made machine tools jumped 16 percent in September from levels a year earlier, the Association for Manufacturing Technology reported yesterday.
The association said the increase reflected heavy ordering last month at an industry trade show that is held every two years. 
 The association, based in McLean, Va., valued September's orders at $283.8 million.
September sales were up 77.1 percent from August, the largest month-to-month increase in two decades. Machine tool orders, which often swing widely from month to month, are one measure of industrial production and capital spending by manufacturers. The statistic combines figures for orders of metal-cutting and metal-forming machines used to produce goods from refrigerators and cookware to automobiles and aircraft.
"The trade show had a lot to do with the jump," said James Paper, an analyst with Kirkpatrick Pettis, a regional brokerage firm in Omaha. Mr. Paper said the increase might also reflect some optimism that Gov. Bill Clinton would win the presidential race, and that a Clinton Administration would grant investment tax credits.
Albert W. Moore, the industry association's president, said many association members postpone purchases until the International Manufacturing Technology Show in Chicago in early September every other year. "It's one-stop shopping," he said.
As a result, many orders were probably placed in September that would have otherwise been made in the final quarter. "Due to the deepening decline in export orders, it is unlikely that the industry will post a fourth quarter equal to the $798 million posted in 1991," Mr. Moore said.
Through September, export orders were down 32.8 percent from the previous year.
With so many caveats, analysts said yesterday that the September figures shed little light on the economy's health.
Even so, the last time the industry association reported such a strong month-to-month gain was from November to December 1970, when orders climbed 79 percent, according to Patrick McGibbon, director of statistics at the industry association.
So far this year, machines tool orders have totaled $1.92 billion, a 3.9 percent increase over the comparable period last year.
Of the $283.85 million in total September orders, $53.05 million were sold for export and $230.8 million were placed by American companies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATION FOR MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY D A DAVIDSON & CO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION FOR MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: MACHINE TOOLS AND DIES MACHINE TOOLS (92%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (79%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); RETAIL SALES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (70%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, ADAM BILL CLINTON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1992



883 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 227 words

HEADLINE: China Reacts To Trade Pact

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

DATELINE: BEIJING, Oct. 25

 BODY:
China will step up trade activities in Canada, the United States and Mexico to minimize the effects of the North American Free Trade Agreement on Chinese businesses, a top trade official here says.
Wang Zhiquan, a leading member of the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade, was quoted in today's Business Weekly newspaper as saying the agreement's lower tariffs could increase Mexico's exports of low-cost goods to the United States and Canada at the expense of China. 
 China sold $19 billion worth of goods to the United States last year, representing a quarter of its exports.
Mr. Wang, deputy director of the ministry's department on American affairs, told the paper that to maintain market share after 1994, when tariffs start to drop, China should increase export credits to buyers of Chinese machinery and electronics, set up trade distribution centers and encourage its enterprises to start joint ventures in North America.
The Business Weekly reported that China had set up a number of Mexican enterprises in hopes of getting around tariff and quota barriers set up by the agreement.
It said the Ministry of Textiles was hoping by the end of the year to sign a joint venture contract with Always Best of Los Angeles to build a mill to make T-shirts and underwear in Hermosillo in northwestern Mexico with a $500,000 investment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (96%); CHINA (95%); CANADA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (59%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA; UNITED STATES; CANADA; MEXICO MEXICO (96%); CHINA (95%); CANADA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (59%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); JOINT VENTURES (78%); MARKET SHARE (71%); TEXTILES (66%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (57%); 

PERSON: WANG ZHIQUAN (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1992



884 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 418 words

HEADLINE: A Pawnshop to the Rich: Business Is Picking Up

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BEVERLY HILLS, Calif., Oct. 25

 BODY:
The chic boutiques and high-priced department stores here may be emptier today than they have been in the past, but at least one business is thriving in this stubborn recession: the Beverly Loan Company. It is perhaps this city's best-known pawnshop, at least to some.
With credit tight and unemployment high, more people are turning to pawnbrokers for short-term loans to tide them over. 
 But if you are looking to pawn a color television or electric guitar, Beverly Loan is not the place to go. Catering mostly to well-to-do residents of Beverly Hills and the west side of Los Angeles, this pawnbroker deals almost exclusively in expensive jewelry or precious metals, like the Rolex watch and other jewels that an auto dealer recently pawned to get $10,000 to make his payroll. Or the diamond and gold jewelry that a Beverly Hills woman pawned for $8,000, which she needed to pay her bill at Chanel. She wanted to buy a new dress there but had exceeded her credit limit.
The number of loans the shop is making has been increasing in the recession. "It's quick, fast and fairly painless," said Jean Zimmelman, who runs the 54-year-old company with her sister Helaine. "People love the confidentiality. They don't want their bankers or friends to know they are down on their luck. We are not interested in a credit history because the loan is based solely on collateral."
Beverly Loan is one of the few pawnbrokers in the country that makes loans of more than $10,000. One famous customer was the sister of King Farouk of Egypt, who in 1972 pawned her mother's royal jewels for $369,000 after she was disowned for marrying a commoner.
Recently, the pawnbroker has started accepting fine pieces of art as collateral, but "only the contemporary stuff that I like," Jean Zimmelman said. A woman recently pawned an Andy Warhol for $1,500 to pay for her wedding. A man brought in a Keith Haring to get $3,000 to buy a car.
Unlike rates in the banking industry, pawnshop rates are regulated by the state, but loans of more than $2,500 are set by the pawnshop based on the value of the collateral. Beverly, which says it has a 20 percent foreclosure rate, generally charges about 4 percent a month for loans exceeding $2,500. In California, the term of a pawn loan is five months.
"This is a glitzy town and some people feel they have to maintain a life style no matter what. Others just need the money to survive," Jean Zimmelman said. "We don't ask any questions. We are here to make life easier."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (68%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BEVERLY LOAN CO THE BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: BEVERLY LOAN CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BEVERLY HILLS (CALIF) UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (68%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PAWNBROKING; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); FORECLOSURE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); FINE JEWELRY (74%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (72%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN JEAN ZIMMELMAN (82%); BEVERLY LOAN (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1992



885 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
American Express in Ad Shift

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
The American Express Company has dismissed Chiat/Day/Mojo from creating and producing sales pitches for its charge cards, less than a year after it awarded the New York advertising agency the $60 million account.
The decision, made late Thursday, followed months of intense speculation that Chiat's hold on the prestigious account was loosening because its initial campaign had drawn mixed to negative reviews and was perceived as failing to help reverse the company's sagging share of the charge card market. 
 Chiat won the account away from Ogilvy & Mather, which had handled the American Express card for 29 years, in an intensely fought competition, and its ads were a sharp departure from Ogilvy's "Membership has its privileges" campaign, which featured celebrities like Ella Fitzgerald, Tom Seaver and Paul Newman in warmly emotional settings.
 
Pressured by the Recession
 This second change of agencies at American Express is yet another sign of how some large marketers have responded to sagging sales during the nation's economic slump. Fruit of the Loom, Mastercard, Miller Brewing and Subaru of America have also changed advertising agencies in recent months.
But clearly these changes do not always produce the desired effect.
"There's tremendous risk when you change," said Philip W. Sawyer, editor of Starch Tested Copy, a publication from Starch INRA Hooper in Mamaroneck, N.Y., which measures consumer response to print ads. "There's the potential for breakthroughs and also the potential for failure."
In a Starch test this summer, magazine readers preferred the Ogilvy New York campaigns to Chiat's, which presented oversized green and gold charge cards as consumer icons.
 
 
'A Tough Decision'
 A spokeswoman for American Express in New York called the dismissal "a tough decision," adding that Chiat/Day/Mojo had "done some very fine work."
The decision does not mean, however, that American Express will return the account to Ogilvy New York. Instead, the spokeswoman said, the financial-services giant will undertake "a whole re-examination of how we do things." That could involve introducing a global campaign and restructuring its accounts worldwide, now handled by various advertising and direct-marketing agencies.
Among the shops involved, the spokeswoman listed Chiat/Day/ Mojo, which continues to handle the gold charge card account in Britain; Ogilvy New York; McCann-Erickson, which works for American Express in Japan; Wunderman Worldwide, and Young & Rubicam, Wunderman's parent.
In the meantime, the spokeswoman said, American Express will expand nationally a test campaign Ogilvy introduced on Aug. 30, consisting of television commercials that paint flattering portraits of restaurateurs and merchants who accept American Express cards. The commercials, which have been running in Atlanta, Los Angeles and New York, were aimed primarily at rebuilding relationships with service establishments that had complained that the company's fees were too high.
Ogilvy New York created the test campaign because the less glamorous service establishment account remained with it after the charge-card assignment was shifted to Chiat/ Day/Mojo.
The American Express spokeswoman said the financial-services company had been so "delighted with the response" to the test "that we decided we didn't want to have two campaigns on the air at once."
That spelled doom for Chiat/Day/ Mojo, which had been working on a second phase of its campaign, scheduled to be introduced on Nov. 11, that was intended to be as warm and fuzzy as anything Ogilvy New York could produce. The spokeswoman praised those commercials but said the test demonstrated that Ogilvy New York's campaign spoke to consumers as well as to store and restaurant owners.
"We're delighted," said Rochelle Lazarus, president of Ogilvy New York. "We set out to do a campaign that celebrated American Express's relationship with the service establishments, and they felt it had legs, that it did a lot for the brand and reminded everyone what American Express was all about."
For Chiat/Day/Mojo -- which had re-established its New York office with a skein of impressive account victories like American Express's after a year during which it lost a staggering $100 million in billings -- it was the second time in two months the agency lost an American Express account. In August, Shearson Lehman Brothers, which is owned by American Express, began a review on its estimated $20 million account, and it excluded Chiat/Day/Mojo.
"I have to review my own performance, as well as what we're doing there, because we're obviously not doing something right," said Jay Chiat, chairman and chief executive at Chiat/Day/Mojo. While layoffs are now likely, he said, "more than that, what we have to do is sit down and re-evaluate the New York office."
Mr. Chiat disputed the criticism of the work his agency created, but the campaign was widely criticized as too cool, too assertive and too reliant on images of carefree, free-spending consumers that evoked the 1980's. Critics even complained that the new theme -- "The card. The American Express card." -- was too aloof.
Chiat/Day/Mojo had modified the campaign in recent months, adding some warmer elements that were particularly evident in low-key commercials pegged to the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona. The changes followed the return to American Express of Aldo Papone, the retired chairman and chief executive of the American Express Travel Related Services Company, under whose aegis Ogilvy New York had emphasized emotional content in its work. He has been consulting there, with the title of senior adviser, since April.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (98%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (98%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); NAICS315190 OTHER APPAREL KNITTING MILLS (55%); SIC2254 KNIT UNDERWEAR & NIGHTWEAR MILLS (55%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (55%); SIC2321 MEN'S & BOYS' SHIRTS, EXCEPT WORK SHIRTS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO; CHIAT/DAY/MOJO AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (98%); CHIAT/DAY/MOJO INC ADVERTISING (93%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (58%); FRUIT OF THE LOOM INC (55%); FRUIT OF THE LOOM OPERATING LTD (55%); FRUIT OF THE LOOM INTERNATIONAL LTD (55%); NEW YORK (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO; CHIAT/DAY/MOJO NEW YORK (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: ACCOUNT CHANGES; ADVERTISING MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); RETAILERS (78%); DIRECT MARKETING (78%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (77%); ADVERTISING RESEARCH (77%); PRINT ADVERTISING (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1992



886 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
As Canada Bonds Go, So May U.S. Market

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The reaction in the Canadian bond market to the results of a referendum today on whether to confer special constitutional status on French-speaking Quebec could be a harbinger of what is going to happen in the American bond market a week from now.
A relief rally in Canadian bond prices, brought on as the uncertainty caused by the referendum lifts, could be a preview of a similar rally in the United States after the Presidential election returns are in and uncertainty disappears. And if there is not a rally, at least the downward pressure on prices of the last several weeks may subside. 
 "We've seen this before," said Sherry Cooper, the chief economist at Burns Fry Ltd. in Toronto. "The best foreign-exchange rallies and the best bond rallies we have in Canada are the ones that follow these kinds of crises."
Many analysts of the Canadian bond market are betting that regardless of the outcome of the vote (recent polls forecast a "no" vote on special status), the short end of the market from Treasury bills to five-year notes should get the most benefit from the rally.
 
Relief From Uncertainty
 There is no complex economic analysis behind this prediction. It is just a recognition that the sharp fall of the Canadian bond market since early September has already accounted for more than a "no" vote, and that the relief from the uncertainty about the outcome of the referendum will provide a lift.
Sound familiar? The American bond market has also swooned lately, in part, traders say, because of the uncertainty over the Presidential election and fear over the costs of an economic stimulus program proposed by Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, the candidate who has been leading in the polls.
The Federal Reserve's decision in early October not to cut short-term interest rates below the current 3 percent also helped send the shorter end of the market tumbling. And there is the perennial fear of traders of having to swallow the huge amounts of notes and bonds from new Treasury auctions. The two-year and five-year note auctions are this week, and the big quarterly sale of 30-year bonds and 3- and 10-year notes come just after the Presidential election.
In this atmosphere, the yield on the 30-year bond has soared from 7.31 percent at the beginning of October to 7.63 Friday. At the same time, the discount rates on three-month Treasury bills have jumped from 2.58 percent to 2.93 percent Friday.
But by the end of last week, many analysts had concluded that investors and traders had sold off more than they needed to. "I suspect the market is a little too bearish on Clinton's proposals," said Norman Robertson, chief economist at the Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh.
 
Bond Yield Jumped
 In Canada, concern over a possible negative vote in the referendum began to grow in early September. The yield on the 30-year Canadian bond was 8.07 percent on Sept. 4, jumped to 8.63 percent on Oct. 19, and was at 8.58 percent on Friday. The rate on three-month Canadian Treasury bills moved from 4.56 percent on Sept. 8 to 7.9 percent on Oct. 5, and was 7.1 percent Friday.
Even though yields in Canada have fallen a little in the last several days, the differential between the yields on Canadian bills, notes and bonds and their American counterparts is still quite large. To market watchers, this means there is room for the differential to narrow to where it was just two months ago. And that means a potential for profit as prices rise as yields fall.
For example, the differential, or spread, on three-month bills was as wide as 523 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, on Oct. 2. It has narrowed somewhat, to more than 400 basis points now, but it was only 150 points before concern over the referendum arose.
The spread for 30-year Canadian bonds had jumped to 110 basis points in October, from 71 points in early September, and was down to 94 basis points on Friday. That still leaves some room for improvement, but there is less opportunity than with shorter maturities. The bond has recovered more than the shorter maturities, in part because short-term interest rates had to be pushed higher to defend the falling Canadian dollar.
 
Good Fundamentals
 Beyond the post-referendum relief factor, Canadian bonds, notes and bills, like those in the United States, have economic fundamentals to support their prices and lower their yields once political uncertainties are dispensed with.
Inflation in Canada is down to 1.3 percent over the last 12 months, lower than in the United States. And economic growth is no better, or even less than in the United States, with the unemployment rate in September at 11.4 percent. These fundamentals are the real underpinnings of the forecasts of yields falling.
"If the referendum is rejected, Canada will still be there," said Anita M. Lauria, an analyst who follows the Canadian bond market at Salomon Brothers. "And people will be able to focus on the economic fundamentals."
The one caveat is the Canadian dollar, which has fallen 4 percent against the American dollar since early September. The outlook is a little less clear there, although some analysts expect the Canadian currency to strengthen against the American dollar after the referendum. If this happens, it could add to the earnings of American investors in Canadian securities when the securities are sold and the proceeds translated into American dollars.
But because a rejection of the referendum could further weaken the already unpopular Government of Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, it is hard to figure if the Canadian dollar will rebound as much as the bond market. In addition, to get the economy going, short-term interest rates will have to come down more, also undermining the Canadian dollar.
"There is that element on the currency side," said Patrick Paradiso, a vice president at Deutsche Bank Capital in New York, "that people need to be aware of."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (70%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (70%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (58%); 

COMPANY: BMO NESBITT BURNS INC (70%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); QUEBEC, CANADA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (58%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; REFERENDUMS; ELECTIONS BOND MARKETS (92%); BONDS (92%); REFERENDUMS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (87%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); INTEREST RATES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1992



887 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Cultural Desk; Word and Image Page

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: The Talk of Hollywood;
Director Who Blends Action With a Bit of Art

BYLINE: By BERNARD WEINRAUB, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD, Oct. 25

 BODY:
So "Under Siege," the new action adventure starring Steven Seagal, is not exactly high brow. The film, about nuclear terrorists aboard a Navy battleship, won't rival "Howards End" for Academy Award nominations. The art house set, who prefer Ingmar Bergman and Akira Kurosawa, won't even blink at it. But the movie, along with "The Last of the Mohicans," is the major success of the autumn, and has been No. 1 at the box office for the past three weeks. Even serious film critics admit that "Under Siege" is perhaps the best popcorn film in years. And a darkly funny, if violent, one.
Andrew Davis, the 45-year-old director, and a politically involved former cinematographer from Chicago, said with a smile: "The film is more complicated and interesting than people anticipate. It tries to raise some provocative issues about nuclear weapons. Look, if you do an intellectual movie that 20 people on the West Side of Manhattan see, you're not exactly reaching a lot of people." 
 In the film, Mr. Seagal plays a Navy cook, and highly decorated former SEAL in trouble with the brass, who takes charge of the crew against a bunch of murderous military specialists who have plotted to hijack the ship and steal its nuclear arsenal. Also on the ship is a Playboy Playmate (played by Erika Eleniak) with, of all things, pacifist leanings. But that's another story. The film's screenplay was by J. F. Lawton, who wrote "Pretty Woman."
Mr. Davis was shrewd enough to surround Mr. Seagal, who is known far more for his grunting martial arts than his acting skill, with two dazzling character actors, Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey. The two just about steal the film as over-the-top, and funny, bad guys.
(Mr. Seagal came to stardom the old-fashioned way. Like Lana Turner. According to legend, Miss Turner was discovered by a talent scout at a soda counter. Mr. Seagal was discovered by one of his martial arts students, Michael Ovitz, the chairman of Creative Artists Agency.)
Mr. Davis said the success of the film had just about transformed his career. In Hollywood Mr. Davis has gained a reputation as a highly successful action director; his movies include "The Package," a 1989 thriller, starring Gene Hackman and Mr. Jones; "Above the Law," which marked Mr. Seagal's feature debut in 1988, and the Chuck Norris film "Code of Silence," in 1985.
Mr. Davis said sardonically: "Things have changed a lot for me in the last few weeks. It's all about money. Isn't it wonderful? Great movie makers come through Hollywood all the time but if you don't make money on your movies -- and especially if you're a woman -- forget it. A man can fail five times. A woman fails once. That's it."
 
Longing for Something New
 Mr. Davis, who lives in Santa Barbara with his wife, Adriana, and two young children, said his next films would probably go far beyond the action genre: he yearns to direct a comedy or a drama or even a musical.
Mr. Davis began his career working as an assistant cameraman to Haskell Wexler on "Medium Cool," the 1969 classic about the turbulent 1968 Democratic convention in Chicago. (He said, "I loaded cameras during the riots.)
Mr. Davis's roots -- and many of his friends -- are in Chicago. He has a degree in journalism from the University of Illinois in Champaign-Urbana, and still has fantasies about being an investigative reporter. His father, Nate Davis, is a well-known stage actor in Chicago.
Mr. Davis's acclaimed first independent film, "Stony Island," in 1979, which brought him to Hollywood, was a semiautobiographical musical about jazz musicians on the South Side of Chicago. He then spent several years directing a number of quickie exploitation films because he was broke. The Norris film "Code of Silence" turned Mr. Davis into an action director.
"I got pegged as this action guy -- this guy who could do great stunts," he said.
 
Echoes of a Classic
 Mr. Davis takes his film making seriously: the scenes in "Under Siege" in the Pentagon war room are designed to resemble a similar backdrop in Stanley Kubrick's 1964 classic, "Dr. Strangelove." And he insists that each of his films has a broader theme: the movies have dealt with police cover-ups ("Code of Silence,") and an assassination plot by Soviet and American military dissidents against Mikhail S. Gorbachev ("The Silence").
Although Mr. Davis says that critics too often condescend to action films, he acknowledges that many of these films are terrible.
"The basic underpinnings don't have any soul or value," he said. "They're totally incredible so you don't believe them. They're dumb stories. People are unbelievable."
"People want to see action," he said. "Life is boring for a lot of people and they want to be excited. But if you make these you've got to like the people in it. You've got to have some irreverent humor. Audiences want to cheer for the good guys and hiss the bad guys, and really love the hissing."
"Look, it's so dark out there for a lot of people," said Mr. Davis. "You want to give people some hope without turning it into a diatribe. Every successful action movie has a guy who's a nobody, who gets messed up by the big guys in the system and then comes back and does right. It's Robin Hood. It's hope for the little guy. That's what it's all about. "
 
Too Sad to Sell
 If "Under Siege," is pure escapism, "American Heart" is the reverse. It is bleak, unfunny and sad, and as a result is facing enormous difficulties.
Jeff Bridges, the movie actor, is one of the producers with Rosilyn Heller and Neil Koenigsberg. Mr. Bridges is also the film's star and its guiding force.
"Most of the major studios don't want to touch it, but why the independents have turned it down is a big mystery to me," said Mr. Bridges in a telephone interview. "It's distressful. Everyone's so reticent. It just doesn't fit into a neat category."
The low-budget film, directed by Martin Bell, a British documentary film maker, with a screenplay by Peter Silverman, a television writer, deals with an ex-convict, played by Mr. Bridges, who reluctantly allows his desperately lonely 15-year-old son, played by Edward Furlong, to live with him. The film takes place in Seattle's underside. Also involved in the movie as associate producer is Mary Ellen Park, a well-known photographer who is married to Mr. Bell.
In traditional Hollywood style, one company, which was set to distribute the movie, went bankrupt. The movie was then placed in limbo. Mr. Bridges and his partners have failed to find a company to release the film. One main reason, they say, is because the current bleak economic mood in the nation leaves audiences craving for escapist films like "The Last of the Mohicans" and "Under Siege." Preview audiences have generally responded positively to the movie.
Mr. Bridges said: "I knew this film would be a tough sell, but nothing like this. Nothing quite like this."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Andrew Davis, director of the new action adventure "Under Siege." (Eduardo Citrinblum for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: UNDER SIEGE (MOVIE)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711110 THEATER COMPANIES & DINNER THEATERS (52%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (55%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: CREATIVE ARTISTS AGENCY INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (55%); NEW YORK, USA (55%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES FILM (91%); MILITARY VESSELS (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); TERRORISM (78%); HIJACKING (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); TICKET SALES (72%); MARTIAL ARTS (63%); 

PERSON: WEINRAUB, BERNARD; DAVIS, ANDREW MICHAEL MCMAHON (69%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1992



888 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 3; Cultural Desk; Word and Image Page

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: Books of The Times;
Diversity in the Fastest Growing U.S. Minority

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER LEHMANN-HAUPT

 BODY:

Latinos
A Biography of the People
By Earl Shorris
520 pages. W. W. Norton. $25.
Earl Shorris's "Latinos: A Biography of the People" is a large baggy book that strives to give readers a sense of the diversity and complexity of the fastest growing United States minority, which comprises Mexican-Americans, Cuban-Americans, Puerto Ricans, Dominicans and immigrants from Central and South America. 
 Explaining his terminology, Mr. Shorris, a contributing editor of Harper's Magazine, writes: "I have chosen to use Latino/Latina for linguistic rather than political, geographic or economic reasons: Latino has gender, which is Spanish, as opposed to Hispanic, which follows English rules. Although the linguistic connection to culture in the group name may eventually be killed, I choose not to be among the assassins."
Mr. Shorris succeeds in introducing us to what he considers a misunderstood and downtrodden people. Typical of his perceptions is this description of the dominant culture in Hispanic history: "It must be remembered that there are two Spains: the Spain of the Inquisition and that of Miguel Cervantes, the inventor of Don Quixote, a Spain of certainty and irony, of paranoia and hope, of death and laughter." Armed with a quiver full of such paradoxes, he is able to interrogate the diverse representatives of his broad subject, the Mexicans of Texas and California, the Puerto Ricans of New York City and their home island in the Caribbean and the Cubans of Miami.
Unhappily, Mr. Shorris has also shackled himself. One difficulty with "Latinos" is that the subject is a little too diverse for untroubled digestion. As Mr. Shorris is the first to point out, Latin Americans "are not one nationality, one culture, but many." As a people often said to have died twice -- once at the hands of the conquering Spaniards, later as a result of more subtle white oppression -- Latin Americans have suffered a variety of histories, even to a point where the parts that make up their whole often practice forms of racism against one another. As Mr. Shorris observes of the Latin encounter with American culture: "All the rules and none of the rules apply to Latinos." So the organization of this history is necessarily lumpy and discursive.
More vexing still is the difficulty of seeing what Mr. Shorris is ultimately driving at. He insists more than once that Nathan Glazer and Daniel Patrick Moynihan were wrong in their book "Beyond the Melting Pot" to conclude that all immigrant experiences were essentially the same and that American culture was tending toward homogeneity. Is this meant to imply that the extreme difficulties that Latins are encountering in their struggle to succeed will ultimately prove insoluble? Or is Mr. Shorris arguing that America must radically change its ways to fit this huge and growing minority? His answer is not by any means clear.
He also faults Mr. Glazer and Mr. Moynihan for introducing "the concept that later came to be known as 'blaming the victim' " and for suggesting, in Mr. Shorris's words, that "blacks were the exception to the pattern, and Latinos were probably going to be an exception too." Although Mr. Shorris doesn't spell out what he means here, the implication is that blacks and Latins were accused of suffering from handicaps that made it impossible for them to follow the paradigm of immigration, integration and assimilation.
Much of Mr. Shorris's book is devoted to defining superficial perceptions of those supposed Latin handicaps, then probing deep into their past to explain the far more complicated truth behind them. For example, Mr. Shorris mentions the perception of Mexican immigrants as lazy, but he points out that behind this appearance are the complex truths that can be summed up in the single word "aguantar," which translates into "to bear," "to endure" or "to put up with," but which "came to mean enduring one's fate bravely and with a certain style," a stoicism now misperceived as laziness.
Elsewhere, Mr. Shorris says that many Puerto Ricans who were asked "to define their essence in a word" gave the answer "partying." He is quick to add that this aptitude has more to do with despair than happiness and that such despair has roots in Puerto Rico's history of being conquered and occupied. But it's a risky game the author is playing here. As he himself warns, "The difference between stereotypes and cultural distinctions is sometimes very subtle."
Again one has to wonder what point Mr. Shorris is driving at. Is it that because of their tragic histories Latin people will require extraordinary help in their quest to be assimilated into American culture? Or is it that they are so separated from the mainstream immigrant experience and so handicapped by their history that Americans will have to undergo a deep change to accommodate them? Is he possibly even suggesting that the dominant culture of America should prepare to submit to Latin Americans? The answer is not clear, not even in Mr. Shorris's argument for bilingual education, which leaves us to wonder if he expects Spanish to become our permanent second language.
Nor is his entreaty for cultural diversity buttressed by his statement that he alone among all candidates was the only qualified person to write "Latinos." Shouldn't a Latin American have written this book? someone asks Mr. Shorris, a Spanish Jew who grew up among Mexican-Americans in El Paso, Tex., in an interview that accompanies the book's publicity material. Absolutely, he replies, but the only qualified Latin he knows of died some 20 years ago. This recalls Dorothy Parker's famous response when asked why she had failed to write some piece for a new magazine she was working for. "Someone was using the pencil," she explained.
Taken with half a grain of salt, "Latinos" remains an informative survey of certain struggling Americans with tangled historical roots in common. Best of all, perhaps, the book indicates where future explorations of this subject may occur. As a section on Latin arts seems to promise, there are now young Hispanic writers maturing who will be fully able to tell such deeper stories.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Earl Shorris (W. W. Norton)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: LATINOS: A BIOGRAPHY OF THE PEOPLE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); PUERTO RICO (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (88%); MEXICO (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (72%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (56%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: HARPER'S MAGAZINE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); PUERTO RICO (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (88%); MEXICO (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (72%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (56%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS; SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US) HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); RACE & RACISM (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); 

PERSON: LEHMANN-HAUPT, CHRISTOPHER; SHORRIS, EARL BEN NELSON (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1992



889 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: Topics of The Times;
New York, More Than Show Biz

 BODY:
New Yorkers know there is plenty to cheer about in their city: ethnic and cultural diversity, first-rate theater, world-class museums, restaurants, literati, designers, scholars and other professionals. But outsiders often overlook these assets, pointing instead to violent crime, filthy streets, political turmoil and the overall hassle factor.
That's why Fortune magazine's fourth annual survey of America's best cities for business is gratifying. Despite the problems and unrelenting negative publicity, the city came in fifth -- behind Seattle, Houston, San Francisco and Atlanta, but in front of Raleigh, Denver, Boston and about 50 other major cities. 
 The corporate chief executives who participated in the survey ranked New York low on manufacturing competitiveness and social conflict but extremely high on the presence of international opportunities and transportation facilities.
They also pointed to New York City's astonishing array of financial wizards, lawyers, ad agencies and, well, deal-makers.
As American business is increasingly forced to reach abroad for business, New York increasingly becomes the best place to call home. It also doesn't hurt, according to Fortune, that late-working C.E.O.'s can also reach out for "sushi or deli or Chinese at 2 A.M."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FORTUNE (MAGAZINE) AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (56%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (56%); AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORTUNE (MAGAZINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EDITORIALS RANKINGS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (72%); TRENDS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1992



890 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: For Congress From Connecticut

 BODY:
Connecticut needs strong hands in Congress to help it through the double downer of a sluggish economy and shrinking defense budgets. Five of its six representatives meet that test.
Here are choices in three races: 
 Third District (New Haven area): First-term Democrat Rosa DeLauro is re-matched against Tom Scott, a militantly conservative former state senator she narrowly defeated in 1990.
Representative DeLauro has spent the two years usefully, applying her considerable energy to economic programs and post-cold war conversion, particularly for small businesses. Mr. Scott has spent the time obstructively, fomenting public opposition to the state income tax.
 With two candidates who disagree on virtually everything, voters have a clear choice. We like Ms. DeLauro.
Fourth District (Fairfield County): Republican Representative Christopher Shays is challenged by Democrat David Shropfer, a marketing consultant, and Al Smith, a lawyer who was the Democratic candidate last time and is now endorsed by Gov. Lowell Weicker's fledgling A Connecticut Party. Both challengers are competent, but neither warrants unseating Mr. Shays.
An independent Republican who votes against the President almost as much as with him, Mr. Shays is stubborn about holding down spending, unless there's money to cover it. Unlike the President, he is willing to raise taxes.
Mr. Shays was Republican point man on cable TV regulation -- a bill he has pushed for three years, and the only one enacted over a Bush veto. Admirably, he also co-sponsors a bill to make members of Congress subject to the health, safety and employment laws from which they now exempt themselves. He rates re-election.
Fifth District (Danbury, Waterbury, Meriden): Representative Gary Franks, first elected in 1990, is the only black Republican in Congress. He had a unique opportunity to shine -- and failed. His voting record seems blindly pro-business. His attention to constituent concerns has been haphazard, and he has mismanaged his staff.
Of the two challengers for the Franks seat, we favor Democrat James Lawlor, a soft-spoken probate judge. As counsel to local development efforts, he's been a leader in creating jobs -- a critical asset in the long-depressed Naugatuck Valley.
State Representative Lynn Taborsak, a scrappy liberal Democrat who lost the party's endorsement to Mr. Lawlor, is running on the A Connecticut Party line. It would be unfortunate if she split the Democratic vote enough to re-elect Mr. Franks.
In the other races, as in past years, we favor the incumbents, all of whom have served with distinction -- Democrats Barbara Kennelly of Hartford and Sam Gejdenson in the eastern part of the state, and Republican Nancy Johnson in the northwest. Mr. Gejdenson rates a special nod this time for his hard work on campaign finance reform.
On ballot issues: Question 1, on absentee voter registration, would open the way for more people to vote. Vote yes. Question 2, on capping the state budget, invites evasive fiscal gimmickry. Vote no.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) CONNECTICUT PARTY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) CONNECTICUT PARTY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; ENDORSEMENTS; ELECTIONS GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); VETO (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); JOB CREATION (75%); LAWYERS (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); COLD WAR (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); BALLOTS (69%); CABLE SYSTEM REGULATION (65%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (65%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); INCOME TAX (55%); 

PERSON: DELAURO, ROSA L (REPR); SHAYS, CHRISTOPHER (REPR); LAWLOR, JAMES; KENNELLY, BARBARA (REPR); GEJDENSON, SAM (REPR); JOHNSON, NANCY L (REPR) CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (90%); ROSA DELAURO (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1992



891 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: An Urban Aid Bill That Doesn't

 BODY:
After the Los Angeles riots in April, Congress vowed swift relief. This month it finally passed an urban aid bill. Only it doesn't provide much urban aid. And what it does provide -- tax breaks for yacht buyers, real estate investors and wealthy savers -- is irresponsible, opening up gaping holes in future budgets.
President Bush, boxed in by election-year pledges, threatens to veto the bill because it would raise some taxes even as it cuts others. That's an absurd reason, but a serendipitous outcome. 
 Congress, at the urging of the Senate majority leader, George Mitchell, and the Senate Finance Committee chairman, Lloyd Bentsen, has delayed forwarding the bill to the President to push the deadline for a veto beyond Nov. 3. That way Mr. Bush could change his mind and sign the bill after the election. Mr. Mitchell is fighting on behalf of subsidies to ship builders in his home state of Maine, Mr. Bentsen on behalf of wealthy families saving for retirement.
No one concerned about cities would fight nearly as hard. The bill, costing $27 billion over five years, spends only about $7 billion on cities. The rest is frittered away in tax breaks for tuxedo rentals, college football games, restaurants and so on.
The original centerpiece was to be enterprise zones -- blighted areas to which employers would be drawn by tax breaks and regulatory relief. But that calls for a carefully targeted experiment that would pile up tax breaks, infrastructure investments and support services in a few urban zones. Instead, the bill would spread a few billion dollars thinly over 50 zones, half of them rural.
The next Congress can salvage the bill by concentrating aid on a dozen urban zones. It could also preserve support for distressed families and a permanent extension of the low-income housing tax credit, which attracts private investors to inner-city housing.
What should never resurface are budget-busting tax breaks. The bill would grant corporations automatic write-offs for purchases of intangible assets like customer lists and subsidize retirement savings for high-income families. Neither provision is unreasonable had Congress paid for them. But Congress wasn't willing. It offset these permanent tax cuts with temporary tax hikes, a gimmick to satisfy the budget law while running up deficits in the future.
What started as a response to a human disaster -- the Los Angeles riots -- now threatens to become a financial fiasco. The best outcome is a veto, sadly leaving America's inner cities more time to rot.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); MAINE, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: URBAN AREAS; EDITORIALS; FEDERAL AID (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; VETOES (US) LEGISLATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETO (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); FAMILY (87%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); RIOTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); TAX INCREASES (72%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (72%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (72%); PUBLIC HOUSING (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (66%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (76%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1992



892 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: For U.S., a New Day's Dawning in East Asia

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"The Cold War's Over and It's Time to Rebuild" (letters, Oct. 6) addresses problems and opportunities in a reduced demand for military hardware, personnel and bases. The time is also ripe to revamp United States relations with East Asia. Our leaders seem at a loss how to respond to the pressures of East Asia's peoples and centers of power. The challenges of communications technology alone stagger the imagination. 
 Despite the lessons of the 20th century and a geographical setting that places the United States strategically between Europe and Asia, no American leaders have stepped forward to articulate the significance of transformations in Asia-Pacific relations.
Foremost, for example, the United States ought to encourage Japan to join in forging a commitment based on renewed mutual respect to spurn the pitfalls and one-sided attitudes that induced them half a century ago to wage bitter warfare against each other. An identical plea for hardheaded peacemaking could also be addressed to improving relations between the United States and China.
For Japan we ought to consider:
(1) Phasing out in a limited number of years United States responsibility for Japan's security, with Tokyo step by step assuming the burdens of self-defense; (2) support for Japan, and Germany, to gain permanent Security Council seats, obtaining greater strength for global peacekeeping needs; (3) educating Americans better, students and adults alike, about the Janapese, Chinese, Koreans, Filipinos and all East Asians, and (4) devising a national economic philosophy to foster the wealth of all nations, to encourage support for the interests of consumers, as well as producers, as an integral element of competition, and to discourage the harmful practice of bashing others to override one's own deficiencies.
Whoever wins the November election, the time has come for a fresh start in United States relations with East Asia.
 
ARTHUR P. DUDDEN
Bryn Mawr, Pa., Oct. 9, 1992
 
The writer is author of "The American Pacific From the Old China Trade to the Present" (1992).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (98%); EASTERN ASIA (95%); JAPAN (94%); CHINA (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (71%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (98%); EASTERN ASIA (95%); JAPAN (94%); CHINA (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (71%); TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); WRITERS (78%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (77%); PEACEKEEPING (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1992



893 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1398 words

HEADLINE: With Eye on Economy, 12 States to Pick Chiefs

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN

 BODY:
From tiny Rhode Island to the Big Sky country of Montana, the 12 states electing governors next week share not just the unpredictable dynamic of politics in a Presidential year, but budget woes and an electorate uneasy about the economy.
States that had never before given a second thought to initiating income or sales taxes are debating when and how to start them. At the same time, they are looking to the nightmarish experience of California, where some say high taxes and regulation may have played a part in the state's fiscal collapse. 
 "We can't allow ourselves to fall into the mess that California has fallen into," said Ken Eikenberry, the Republican candidate for governor in Washington State, in a refrain spoken this year by many other candidates to lead their states.
State budgets nearly everywhere are reeling from the recession, but hardly anybody is willing to talk about new taxes to balance budgets. As a result, there is much talk about cutting expenses and creating more jobs in the private sector.
 
Bucking a Trend
 One notable exception to the "no new taxes" talk is Deborah (Arnie) Arnesen, the Democratic nominee for governor of New Hampshire, where candidates traditionally take a pledge not to raise taxes. Ms. Arnesen, a 38-year-old state representative, has advocated a state income tax, with three-quarters of the proceeds going to local governments for property-tax relief. (Her Republican opponent, Steven Merrill, a former state attorney general, has taken the pledge against new taxes.)
Ms. Arnesen's candidacy is notable in another respect: if elected, she would be the first female governor of New Hampshire. But this year, that is not so unusual. More women are running for Congress than ever, and they have a chance of winning the governor's mansion in three states: New Hampshire, Montana and Rhode Island.
In many states, the Democratic candidates for governor are clinging as closely as they can to Gov. Bill Clinton's coattails. The Democrats hope to put at least two new states in their column, Delaware and North Carolina, while Republicans say their best outcome would be to break even. Of the dozen races this year, five are in states the Democrats control and seven are in Republican hands. There are now 28 Democratic governors, 20 Republicans and 2 independents.
Based on state polls and interviews in the states electing governors this year, Democrats think they will win in Delaware, Rhode Island, North Carolina, Indiana, Vermont and West Virginia. Republicans predict a solid victory in just one state, Utah, with Washington and New Hampshire leaning their way. Missouri, North Dakota and Montana are rated tossups.
 
Washington Race Tightens
 Washington, with a seat that opened up when the popular two-term Democratic Governor, Booth Gardner, decided not to seek a third term, was thought about a month ago to be solidly in Republican hands. But Mike Lowry, a Democratic former Congressman who has twice failed in runs for the Senate, has had a surge in recent polls.
Long associated with his party's liberal wing, he has broadened his appeals this year by bringing voices from business to his campaign.
Mr. Lowry has refused to accept campaign contributions of more than $1,500 and has pledged not to run any negative advertisements. But he was helped considerably this week when a newspaper reported that a supporter of the Republican nominee, Mr. Eikenberry, tried to solicit a $50,000 campaign contribution from a University of Washington regent, in return for new term on the board. Mr. Eikenberry said the story was "a lie."
Negative advertising has not been restrained in Montana, where the Republican State Attorney General, Marc Racicot (pronounced ROS-ko) and Dorothy Bradley, an eight-term state representative, are in an extremely tight race.
Ms. Bradley began the campaign by riding around parts of the state on horseback. Similar to Governor Clinton, she put out a brochure touting her People First economic platform. But a series of negative advertisements and debates have reduced her lead enough to make the race nearly even.
Mr. Racicot's supporters circulated a flier that noted that Ms. Bradley was divorced, had no children, no military experience and spent some years right after college restoring pottery in Germany. By contrast, the brochure noted, Mr. Racicot was a married father of five who was a captain in the Army.
In the Montana of old, Ms. Bradley's private life might have been a significant factor in a statewide race, but the state has changed considerably in the last decade. "There's been such a demographic shift in Montana over the last 10 years that I don't think anyone really cares if she's divorced and doesn't have any children," said John Heynemann, a spokesman for Ms. Bradley.
The race has since focused on such issues as imposing a sales tax and how to protect the foundering cattle industry.
 
Focus on Farm Economy
 One state to the east, North Dakota, has also featured a rather nasty personal fight, where the two-term Democratic Governor, George A. Sinner, is stepping down. Attorney General Nicholas Spaeth, the Democrat, has made a campaign issue of his opponent's sometime residence in New York.
Mr. Spaeth accused the Republican, Ed Schafer, of not living in North Dakota for the last five years, a requirement for being elected governor. But Mr. Schafer, a businessman who is the former president of the company that manufactures detergent products like Mr. Bubbles and Snowy Bleach, countered with an income tax form that he said proved his residency.
"We think its's backfired on the Democrats," said Ed Roby, communications director for the Republican nominee.
Both candidates have promoted visions of keeping jobs and people from leaving North Dakota. More than 50,000 people moved out of the state in the last eight years, leaving it with a population of just over 600,000. Pointing to recent personal ventures like an aquaculture project that raises tropical fish using indoor pools, Mr. Schafer has campaigned as a business-minded leader with creative solutions to bring jobs to North Dakota. His opponent has focused his program on finding broader markets for the state's farm products.
Two Midwestern states, Indiana and Missouri, are leaning Democratic. Polls in Missouri last month put Lieut. Gov. Mel Carnahan, a Democrat, up by 10 points over State Attorney General Bill Webster. Gov. Evan Bayh of Indiana, elected in 1988 at the age of 32, has proved to be popular in a state that usually leans Republican. He won by only a 53-to-47-percent margin in 1988, but has registered a lead of better than 2 to 1 over the State Attorney General, Linley Pearson, in recent state polls.
The Republicans also appear to be in trouble in the six races for governor in the East. B. Gary Scott, a real estate executive, was once thought to be ahead of his Democratic opponent in Delaware, United States Representative Thomas R. Carper. But in the last few weeks, political experts have given a slight advantage to Mr. Carper. The state had been ruled for two terms by Gov. Michael N. Castle, a Republican.
In Rhode Island, the Republican, Elizabeth Leonard, has been trying to use the recession and Rhode Island's banking crisis to unseat Gov. Bruce Sundlun, a Democrat. A car dealer, Ms. Leonard has been billed by the Republican Governors' Association as the "perfect outsider," in this year of anti-incumbency sentiment.
She has railed against corruption in state government, but her inexperience has apparently hurt her. A Brown University poll a month ago had Governor Sundlun ahead by 16 points.
Recent polls in North Carolina give Jim Hunt, a former governor, a wide lead in his attempt to win back the governor's mansion as he challenges Jim Gardner, a Republican who is lieutenant governor. Mr. Hunt, who lost in a bid to unseat Senator Jesse Helms in 1984, has worked in business and as a cattle rancher in recent years.
He is campaigning this year on a platform to raise educational standards in North Carolina. The state has been smarting over a loss of jobs, particularly a recent desision by BMW to locate a plant in South Carolina.
 A map showing the parties for all 50 incumbent governors shaded two states incorrectly. The Governor of Louisiana is a Democrat; the Governor of Mississippi is a Republican.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 27, 1992, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about governorship races this year misstated the current party breakdown for the 12 governorships at stake. Six are now held by Democrats and six by Republicans.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "The Races For Governor" shows respective parties of current governors in all fifty states
 
Current Governors
 
Democrats: 28 Republicans: 20
Independents: 2
 Also shown is the following information for states electing Governors this year:
 
Delaware
 Tom Carper (D) -- 45, five-term Congressman
 B. Gary Scott (R) -- 59, real estate executive, newcomer to politics
 
Indiana
 Evan Bayh (D incumbent) -- 36, state's youngest Governor this century when first elected in 1988
 Linley Pearson (R) -- 46, the state's three-term Attorney General, first elected in 1980
 
Missouri
 Mel Carnahan (D) -- 58, elected Lieutenant Governor in 1988, the only Democrat holding statewide office in Missouri
 Bill Webster (R) -- 39, elected Attorney General in 1984; in a 1989 Supreme Court case, he defended Missouri's law restricting abortions
 
Montana
 Dorothy Bradley (D) -- 45, a laywer and a 16-year state legislator
 Mark Racicot (R) -- 44, the state's Attorney General since 1989
 
New Hampshire
 Deborah Arnesen (D) -- 39, a four-term state legislator seeking to become the first woman elected to statewide office in New Hampshire
 Steve Merrill (R) -- 46, a former state attorney general; protege of John H. Sununu, the former Governor and White House chief of staff.
 
North Carolina
 Jim Gardner (R) -- 59, Lieutenant Governor since 1989, co-founder of Hardee's fast-food restaurants
 Jim Hunt (D) -- 55, Governor from 1977 to 1985, lost race for Senate in 1984
 
North Dakota
 Ed Schafer (R) -- 46, a Bismarck businessman who lost a race for Congress in 1990
 Nick Spaeth (D) -- 42, the state's Attorney General, first elected in 1984
 
Rhode Island
 Elizabeth Leonard (R) -- 57, car dealership owner making her first run for public office
 Bruce Sundlun (D incumbent) -- 72, elected Governor in 1990 after losing tow earlier races
 
Utah
 Stewart Hanson (D) -- 53, a lawyer and former state district judge in his first bid for elective office
 Mike Leavitt (R) -- 41, insurance executive and political newcomer
 
Vermont
 Howard Dean (D incumbent) -- 43, elected Lieutenant Governor in 1986, succeeded Gov. Richard Snelling, a Republican, who died in 1991
 John McClaughry (R) -- 55, state legislator who was a White House aide in the first year under Ronald Reagan
 
Washington
 Ken Eikenberry (R) -- 60, a former F.B.I. agent who has been the state's Attorney General for 12 years
 Mike Lowry (D) -- 53, a former professor of public administration at Seattle University and a former five-term Congressman who last served in 1988
 
West Virginia
 Cleve Benedict (R) -- 57, a millionaire dairy farmer, a former Congressman and, as the state's agriculture commissioner, the only Republican holding statewide elected office
 Gaston Caperton (D incumbent) -- 51, a millionaire insurance executive, who, in his first bid for public office in 1988, upset a three-term Republican incumbent

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); MISSOURI, USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%); MONTANA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); DELAWARE, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: BISMARCK, ND, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); MISSOURI, USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%); MONTANA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); DELAWARE, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); BISMARCK, ND, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; STATES (US); GOVERNORS (US) BUDGETS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); SALES TAX (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); TAX RELIEF (71%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); JOB CREATION (67%); INCOME TAX (65%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (52%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY BILL CLINTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); MICHAEL O LEAVITT (73%); EVAN BAYH (57%); ED SCHAFER (54%); TOM CARPER (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1992



894 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: Publishing;
The Voters Choose to Read, And Political Books Flourish

BYLINE: By Esther B. Fein

 BODY:
FOUR years ago, The New York Times nonfiction paperback best-seller list the week before the Presidential election was a typical grab bag: inspirational messages, a book about a cat, a murder case, and memoirs about a traumatic childhood and a rock and roll groupie.
Two books on the hard-cover list gave only a hint that a campaign was under way: an account of Ronald Reagan's second Presidential term and a prescription for what the American people and Government should do in the face of a predicted depression in 1990. 
 But behold the pre-election book buyers of 1992: Americans who are watching Presidential and Vice Presidential debates and registering to vote in record numbers are also buying masses of books about the programs of Presidential candidates, about the deficit and environmental problems, and about the way Government doesn't always work.
 
An Unlikely Scenario
 Publishers and booksellers who are enjoying the windfall from these sales chuckle at the unlikely scenario. Imagine a writer submitting a book proposal about the debt crisis and swearing it will become a best seller? It might be worthy, but a reading public that reaches for homilies and thigh exercises would never go for it.
Surprise. It's the No. 12 book on the hard-cover nonfiction list, "Bankruptcy 1995: The Coming Collapse of America and How to Stop It" (Little, Brown), by Harry E. Figgie Jr., a former Reagan adviser, with Gerald J. Swanson.
"We didn't expect these political books to do quite as well as they have, but people are really interested in the political process this year despite the fact that everyone predicted there would be all this apathy," said Bruce Dasse, divisional merchandise manager for Waldenbooks, whose responsibilities include books about history, biography and political science. "What we're discovering is that people want substance. People aren't interested in the personalities so much as the issues."
The best-seller list reflects that interest. On the hard-cover nonfiction side, in addition to "Bankruptcy 1995," is "Earth in the Balance" (Houghton Mifflin), by Senator Al Gore, the Democratic Vice Presidential candidate's book about the environment, which will hit the No. 3 spot on Sunday. And No. 8 is "Truman" (Simon & Schuster), David McCullough's biography of the former president whose name has been invoked so often in this campaign, he seems almost contemporary.
The paperback nonfiction list shows an even sharper interest in politics and government. In the No. 1 slot is "United We Stand" (Hyperion) by Ross Perot, the independent candidate's program for rebuilding America. The No. 2 book is "Putting People First" (Times Books/Random House), by Gov. Bill Clinton and Senator Gore, the Democratic candidates' program for changing America.
Next on the list is "America: What Went Wrong?" (Andrews & McMeel), by Donald L. Barlett and James B. Steele, an analysis of how the practices of Wall Street and Washington have benefited only a few Americans. And at No. 5 is "The Government Racket" (Bantam), by Martin L. Gross, examples of Washington waste with suggestions for curbing it.
Some of the books were commissioned before publishers had any clue that this election would spur such interest. Others were rushed into print to take advantage of the political mood, to educate and, yes, concede the publishers, to make money.
The popular books are mostly slim and fairly inexpensive, with all the paperbacks selling for less than $10. Booksellers say the length and the price have helped attract customers. People feel they can learn more about the issues without committing a lot of time and money.
Charles E. Hayward, president of Little, Brown, described the books as "almost like manifestoes." He and others in publishing said readers clearly were interested in "digestible" political books, ones that concentrated on a single issue or that boiled down the essence of several important issues.
 
Reflecting Public Opinion
 Not everyone agrees that this is a healthy trend. "The good news is that people are buying political books," said David Rosenthal, executive editor of the Random House adult trade division. "The bad news is that these are the printed equivalent of sound bites. The information is written, packaged and printed in a way that is disturbingly similar to TV."
One noteworthy observation about the top-selling books is that none of them is about the Republican candidates, except by implication the ones that criticize the current state of Government affairs. Even the political books that are not on best-seller lists but that are enjoying respectable sales in the stores are favorable profiles of Mr. Clinton or Mr. Perot or satirical looks at President Bush and Vice President Quayle.
The books reflect the public opinion polls and the sentiments of many people in the publishing industry, said Steven Schragis, publisher of the Carol Publishing Group. The company's Birch Lane Press currently has two biographies on the market, one of Mr. Clinton and one of Mr. Perot. It also has a novel about an idiot who becomes Vice President.
"The books I publish absolutely reflect my political inclinations," Mr. Schragis said. "But based on the best-seller lists, I would say it's the public's inclinations, too."

CORRECTION-DATE: October 29, 1992, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article on the Media Business page on Monday about the heavy sale of books on the programs of Presidential candidates and on public-policy issues referred incorrectly to a political biography published this year by Birch Lane Press. The subject is Al Gore, not Ross Perot.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; BOOK TRADE; SALES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); BOOKSTORES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (87%); PUBLISHING (78%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); LITERATURE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); WRITERS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); DEBT CRISIS (68%); 

PERSON: FEIN, ESTHER B BILL CLINTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1992



895 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Democrats;
Clinton Presents Hard Line To Bring In North Carolina

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KELLY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WILSON, N.C., Oct. 26

 BODY:
Appearing in a televised question-and-answer session with a small group of North Carolinians today, Bill Clinton and his running mate, Al Gore, worked to win over the state's independent, essentially conservative voters.
The strategy played out in an exchange with a young man named Shawn Searcy on "CBS This Morning." Mr. Searcy voiced an objection to excessive Government largess toward the poor. He said he believed that "if you don't work, you don't eat." 
 Mr. Clinton replied: "I agree with you. If people don't work, if they can work, they shouldn't eat."
For Mr. Clinton, eight days from Election Day, the votes of people like Mr. Searcy, who once supported George Bush or may yet support Ross Perot, hold the key to victory.
 
Overcoming Distrust
 To reach them, and to overcome their ingrained distrust of Democrats, Mr. Clinton sounded today, as he has more often in these last days of the race, a theme heavy with values.
"We're going to empower people to take control of their own lives, then hold them accountable for doing so," Mr. Clinton said in a speech at Elon College, just outside Burlington, in central North Carolina.
"Moving people from welfare to work by investing in their education, then requiring them to work, enforcing child-support enforcement orders toughly so you can't cross the state line and beat your child support bill, giving people the opportunity to get an education but requiring them to give something back to their country, dealing with first-time nonviolent offenders by giving them a chance to be in community boot camps, where they can do work, learn discipline, have education, and gain control of their lives."
 
Beyond Liberalism
 The themes of the day are not new to Mr. Clinton's campaign; all year he had positioned himself as a Democrat willing to go beyond the boundaries of traditional liberalism.
Rather, the distinction is one of impetus. In recent days, Mr. Clinton has taken to emphasizing themes of personal responsibility at every speech, stringing together his views on issues like crime, welfare and the family into a riff that serves to position Mr. Clinton as the sort of Democrat a socially conservative voter could support.
A Clinton campaign official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the campaign's strategy was to ratchet up emphasis on these themes over a period of days, allowing them to eventually occupy a central position in Mr. Clinton's stump speech without effecting what would seem a radical change.
 
Largest Caravan Yet
 In their eighth and final bus trip of the 1992 campaign, Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore led the largest, and most unwieldy caravan yet -- more than 200 people in 16 buses and a dozen or so cars, vans and motorcycles -- lumbering along back roads from the hills and oak forests of the western Piedmont to the pine trees and tobacco fields of the eastern coastal plain.
Mr. Perot's impressive performances in the Presidential debates and his huge purchases of television advertising time had in the past week or so cost Mr. Clinton a good measure of the independent voters, causing the Democrat to lose more than six points to Mr. Perot in national preference polls.
But today, with Mr. Perot railing against media-G.O.P. conspiracies for the second day in a row and Bush Administration spokesman Marlin Fitzwater calling Mr. Perot "a crazy man," and a "paranoid person," many in the Clinton and Gore campaigns believe Mr. Perot has topped out, and will shortly begin, by the display of his temperament, to drive away voters, who would go in large measure to Mr. Clinton.
"It sounds like Perot and Bush are doing everything we need them to do, and all we have to do is stand by and watch it," said Robert Squier, a Washington-based political consultant who advises Mr. Gore. "If you want a perfect scenario for the last week, this is it. Perot is attacking Bush and Bush is attacking Perot, and our guys are up there talking about fixing the economy and getting this country moving in the right direction again."
 
Watching From a Distance
 Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore did allow themselves to address the matter a few times, but carefully, and with the air more of a dispassionate observer than an interested party.
On "CBS This Morning," Mr. Clinton said Mr. Bush's strategy lay in the hope "that the anti-Bush vote will be divided and he can sneak up through the middle," adding that "this fight that Perot and Bush are in right now may make that more difficult."
At a rally that drew 15,000 people to fill a grass amphitheater at the North Carolina Central University in Durham, Mr. Clinton acted somewhat in the manner of a tolerant adult watching a pair of squabbling adolescents, as he spoke of his adversaries.
"Mr. Bush and Mr. Perot have called each other names for months because Mr. Bush thought Mr. Perot hired people to investigate his children, and now Mr. Perot says Mr. Bush hired people to look into his children," he said. "It looks to me like what they ought to be doing is what I've been doing; I'm looking into your children, and their future, and their promise."
Mr. Gore was more political in his remarks, and came closer to expressing the joyous wonderment the Democrats are feeling as they regard Mr. Bush and Mr. Perot from a safe distance.
 
'Talking About What Matters'
 "The other candidates for the Presidency have both been accusing each other of the most remarkable things today," he told a crowd in the town of Wilson. He pointed his two forefingers at each other, and added "Both sides been pointing at each other and shooting each other in the foot, and Bill and I've just been sitting by watching it. We're out here where the rubber meets the road, talking to the people and talking about the future of America."
A Democratic victory in North Carolina, both Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore reminded their audiences several times, could be the key to the election. For weeks Mr. Clinton has been consistently leading Mr. Bush in polls of North Carolina voters, leading Democrats here to hope for their first Presidential victory since 1976, when Jimmy Carter carried the state.
The belief that this year's contest is going to be close is reflected in the high interest in the race. Of the state's nearly four million registered voters, 71 percent are expected to vote this year, compared with 64 percent in 1988, when Mr. Bush carried the state with 58 percent of the vote.
The day finally ended at 11 P.M. in the small coastal plain town of Wilson, with Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore both clearly exhausted, barely able to get through their stump speeches before a crowd that drifted away even as the candidates began to speak.
Mr. Clinton, his voice hoarse and tired, ended with an exhortation that was almost a plea: "Every time when the chips were down, Americans have gotten up to bat, and hit a home run on the question of whether they have the courage to change. Don't let them take your courage away from you in the last week."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Bill Clinton voiced a conservative theme yesterday as he and Senator Al Gore made a final bus trip through North Carolina, hoping to woo independent voters. Tipper Gore visited with children in a Greensboro, N.C., restaurant while Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore spoke with supporters. (Lee Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); 

CITY: GREENSBORO, NC, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY BUSH ADMINISTRATION (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY BUSH ADMINISTRATION (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTH CAROLINA UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (73%); FAMILY LAW (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); 

PERSON: KELLY, MICHAEL; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); GORE, ALBERT JR (SEN) BILL CLINTON (93%); AL GORE (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1992



896 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: Industry Fights Massachusetts Plan on Recycling

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WATERTOWN, Mass., Oct. 21

 BODY:
Now that recycling has became popular, many consumers here neatly sort their paper, glass, plastics and other material and feel they have done their part to save the environment. But the sorted trash still ends up in incinerators and landfills, environmentalists say, because there is no market for the material.
Environmentalists are trying to change that with a ballot referendum, sponsored by Gov. William F. Weld, one that advocates and opponents agree would be the most sweeping recycling and repackaging measure in the country. 
 But the proposal, which would encourage less elaborate packaging or and the use of recycled material, has raised a cry of alarm -- and $5 million for a counter-campaign -- from out-of-state manufacturers of chemical, paper and consumer products.
"Recycling is not when some consumer puts newspapers at the curb," said Amy Perry, an organizer for the Massachusetts Public Interest Research Group and the campaign's chief spokeswoman. "It's when someone makes it into a cereal box."
But the people who sell cereal boxes say they are horrified. "This is the dictionary definition of draconian, a bad idea whose time has not yet come," said Jeffrey Nedelman, vice president of the Grocery Manufacturers of America. "This proposal in Massachusetts is the most sweeping, most regressive solid waste proposal we have encountered anywhere, period. Most people think all of the crazy ideas come out of California, but even the Californians haven't touched this one."
Moreover, Mr. Nedelman's group fears that California and other states will follow suit if the ballot initiative here is successful.
The Massachusetts proposition, which would take effect in 1996, gives manufacturers five ways to comply with the proposed regulations:
*Reducing the volume of packaging by 25 percent every five years.
*Making a package designed to be reused five times or more.
*Making the package with a recycled material content of 25 percent (rising to 35 percent in 1999 and 50 percent in 2002).
*Making the package from materials that will be recycled at a rate of 25 percent (and 35 percent in 1999 and 50 percent in 2002).
*Using a package whose material was recycled at a rate of 50 percent in Massachusetts the previous year.
Proponents say that some materials, like the plastic used for soda bottles, already comply. Opponents say that some of the options are so unrealistic as to be useless, like making a food container that will be re-used five times. And some manufacturers say materials like polystyrene, better known as Styrofoam, and plastic films used for food packaging could never comply.
Ms. Perry said that the initiative does not discriminate against plastics as a group, but may favor some plastics over others. That raises the prospect of sharp swings in the prices of the raw materials of plastics.
The proposal is intended to extend the life of landfills as well as reduce the use of virgin materials in packaging. Ms. Perry said it would reduce the more than 6.8 million tons of waste that goes to landfills and incinerators each year by 1 million tons; opponents dispute the figure.
In a debate here this evening, one of dozens that have been held around the state, Ms. Perry and Stephen Allen, who is a spokesman for a manufacturers' group that opposes the referendum, disagreed over the cost of the initiative to consumers. A study performed for the Responsible Waste Management and Jobs Committee, an industry group, estimated that the initiative would affect $39 billion worth of goods, 50,000 products in all, and would add $190 million to $840 million to the cost of consumer products. The likely result, said the study, would be a burden of $230 annually per household. Mr. Allen said the measure would leave 90 percent of wastes untouched.
But Ms. Perry said that the study overestimated the cost by assuming the need to repackage some items that are already in compliance, like soda bottles. And she noted that the initiative already has the support of some businesses as well as the Republican Governor, who has made a television commercial saying the proposal is "pro environment and pro business."
Paul Denning, a member of the Watertown Council, which has unanimously endorsed the initiative, said his town is capable of collecting all kinds of materials, but "it's very frustrating because there are no end-markets."
Steven E. Kilberg, the plant manager of the Sweetheart Cup Company in the Boston suburb of Somerville, who was also at the debate, who said recycling polystyrene was impractical, and that his company would probably stop selling its products in Massachusetts.
Ms. Perry responded: "If the Massachusetts public wants toothpaste, there's going to be someone to do it. If Crest decides it doesn't want to, then Colgate will benefit."
Others are not sure the rest of the world will bother. Hope Tsacoyeanes, executive vice president of the Watertown Chamber of Commerce, cited an oft-used statistic here, that 80 percent of what Massachusetts consumes is packaged in another state or country. She said some consumers will pay dearly for the rules that manufacturers will have to meet.
"Massachusetts has this zeal to be first," said Ms. Tsacoyeanes. "Why us, why not the whole country? It's obviously something that's needed, but why punish a failing economy?"
Christopher P. Flynn, president of Massachusetts Food Association, said in an interview, "it doesn't follow that if you have mandates that you pick out of the sky, that all of a sudden, infrastructure will develop." His group complains that the bill does not pay for new recycling centers that would help packagers comply with the law..
The backers say that until the last few weeks polls showed a overwhelming majority of voters favored the referendum, but now the measure's supporters are contending with a blitz of advertising by the other side. The supporters have no television or radio budget, but have persuaded a few stations to run counter-ads, including one narrated by the Governor, as a matter of fairness.
As opponents have said that some products will be unavailable in Massachusetts if the question is approved by voters, supporters have resorted to ridicule in response. In one radio ad, a voice that sounds like it comes from a stuffed shirt intones that the referendum "will end life on this planet as we know it."
"We'll be starving, naked cave persons," the advertisement says.
The Public Interest Research Group, continuing this theme, has put posters on college campuses to drum up support that say, "Buy Naked, Vote Naked."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: RESEARCH GROUP (53%); MASSACHUSETTS PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP (56%); GROCERY MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (55%); GROCERY MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP (56%); GROCERY MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (55%); GROCERY MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MASSACHUSETTS UNITED STATES (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS; REFERENDUMS ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); REFERENDUMS (89%); LANDFILLS (89%); PLASTICS (89%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (89%); CHEMICALS (78%); POLYSTYRENE FOAM PRODUCTS (78%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); BALLOTS (76%); FOOD PACKAGING (75%); POLYSTYRENE (73%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (73%); FOOD MFG (69%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (65%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (50%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L; WELD, WILLIAM F (GOV) MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1992



897 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Bush or Clinton, Europe Expects No Shift in Foreign Policy

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BONN, Oct. 26

 BODY:
The idea that Gov. Bill Clinton might be elected President next week seems to cause little aprehension among Western European leaders. Most are more worried about their own political survival.
"We all become a little conservative as we grow older, so there's a tendency to think that things will go better with the person you know," Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez of Spain said in an interview in Madrid the other day. 
 "I have had a very comfortable, intense and fruitful relationship with President Bush," he said. "I think the United States has an international dimension which appears little in the campaigns. But whoever sits in the White House has no choice but to assume it."
And, Mr. Gonzalez added, "the U.S. has to recover economically to reassume its international responsibilities."
Mr. Clinton's campaign has made much the same argument. And according to officials in Bonn, London and Rome, government leaders, to the extent that they think about the election at all, take about the same view as Mr. Gonzalez: they do not expect major changes in foreign policy if Mr. Clinton is elected.
 
Mitterrand Is Mum
 In France, President Francois Mitterrand's aides have given no hint of his preference.
Mr. Mitterrand is balking at making some concessions in agricultural policy demanded by the United States as a condition for a new global trade agreement. But his motivation is believed to lie mainly in French domestic politics: He needs the support of French farmers to hold onto his own job.
French officials have been saying recently that no trade agreement is possible before the United States elections, but that probably reflects a desire by Mr. Mitterrand's Socialist Party to put off any deal until after the French legislative elections in March, political observers in Paris say.
David Aaron, a deputy national security adviser in the Carter Administration, went to Paris this month to assure French officials that continuity in American policy would be assured if there was a change of administrations.
The Paris daily Le Monde said Mr. Aaron had also told the French that Mr. Clinton's attitude toward the NATO alliance would be less rigid and "dogmatic" than the Bush Administration's. When he was Secretary of State, James A. Baker 3d took an extremely negative view of French-German plans to build a "Eurocorps" as the kernel of a European Community defense force that could act independently of NATO.
In Germany, some politicians close to Chancellor Helmut Kohl say they would not be disturbed by a change in administrations, and would welcome it if Mr. Clinton appointed Representative Les Aspin as Secretary of State or Senator Sam Nunn as Secretary of Defense (though Mr. Clinton has not said he would do that). Both men are well known and widely respected as "moderate Democrats," a senior German politician said.
"Clinton has made clear he would continue the basic policy," a German foreign policy official added. "Whether there are 50,000 American troops more or less doesn't make much difference now that the cold war is over."
Mr. Clinton recently suggested that he might continue troop withdrawals even after United States forces in Europe reached the floor of 150,000 that Mr. Bush set for 1995.
Some German officials have less than fond memories of the last Democratic Administration, under President Carter, but these seem to have faded. Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel, according to those close to him, knows Anthony Lake, one of Mr. Clinton's campaign foreign policy aides, from his days in the State Department.
The German Foreign Ministry's political director, Jurgen Chrobog, made a point of conferring with Mr. Lake in New York during the United Nations General Assembly last month, officials here say.
The influential weekly German news magazine Der Spiegel even suggested in a recent issue that Chancellor Helmut Kohl actually wanted Mr. Clinton to win, a view that Mr. Kohl's close aides dispute. "The Chancellor will always be grateful to President Bush for his role in making German reunification possible," one said.
European news organizations have provided extensive coverage of the campaign. Le Monde has used the occasion to run a series on the decline of America as a world power, emphasizing all the social and economic problems Mr. Clinton has brought up to argue that it is time for a change.
"Whistlestop Bush is dogged by farce," The Sunday Times reported last weekend in London, where the President's friend, Prime Minister John Major, is on the ropes only six months after winning an election.
It isn't all that certain, some British officials say, that Mr. Major will still be holding his own job next January, but if he is, they say, he will undoubtedly prefer to continue building on the close relationship he established with Mr. Bush over the war in the Persian Gulf.
But the British are also prepared for a different outcome. "I would undoubtedly be in favor of a continuation of the Republican Administration," said Peter Temple-Morris, a lawmaker from Mr. Major's Conservative Party, but "I'd say a Clinton Presidency is very likely."
"People here are quite reassured about Clinton," Mr. Temple-Morris said. "He's an Oxford man, a gentleman from the South, just the sort of American the British often take to."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (94%); GERMANY (94%); SPAIN (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (67%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); MADRID, SPAIN (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); 

COMPANY: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (94%); GERMANY (94%); SPAIN (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (67%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); MADRID, SPAIN (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (75%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); AGRICULTURE (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1992



898 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Campaign Finance;
Perot Leads in $40 Million TV Ad Blitz

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 26

 BODY:
Led by Ross Perot, the Presidential candidates are engaged in the costliest advertising blitz of any general election campaign. Already, they have poured more than $40 million into network television alone, and they expect to spend millions more by next Tuesday.
That figure represents only a portion of the spending on broadcast commercials because the campaigns are also spending large amounts in local markets and on radio stations. 
 The surge in advertising budgets is driven in large part by Mr. Perot, who is spending far more than any previous independent candidate. In the first two weeks of this month, after he got back in the race, Mr. Perot dipped into his personal fortune, spending $26 million, almost exclusively on ads, including network, radio and local television. That was more than double what either President Bush or Gov. Bill Clinton had spent, according to the Federal Election Commission.
Today in Dallas, Mr. Perot's campaign unveiled nine new commercials, a departure in that they feature the candidate himself instead of a rolling text.
The Perot campaign has been distinctive for its half-hour or hourlong programs devoted to issues like the deficit or to Mr. Perot's biography. The eighth such "infomercial" was broadcast tonight.
Unlike the major party candidates, who each received $55 million in Federal subsidies for the general election by agreeing not to accept private donations, Mr. Perot can spend as much of his own fortune as he wants on his independent effort. He has said he expects to spend more than $60 million.
Political commercials will be virtually inescapable in this final stretch; all three campaigns have purchased time on mystery programs, football games, comedies and more. Network advertising executives said they had never expected the campaigns to buy so much air time this year.
A survey today of advertising purchases on ABC, CBS and NBC found that Mr. Perot had spent $19.8 million on network commercials, the most of the three candidates. He was followed by Mr. Bush, who had spent $17.5 million, and Mr. Clinton, $5.4 million.
 
Windfall for ABC TV
 "It's a huge difference from '88," said Stephen Battaglio, manager of media relations for ABC. "And our sales department has been expecting more buys in the final week."
To date, the Presidential campaigns and the Democratic Party have purchased $22 million in advertising on ABC, Mr. Battaglio said, far more than on the other networks. "I guess it's because we tend to reach a younger viewer who is less likely to watch news programming," he said.
Though the Perot and Bush campaigns have by no means held back on their network advertising in recent weeks, they like the Clinton campaign, are planning blitzes for the final week. On CBS, for example, the Clinton campaign has paid for nearly $1 million worth of time for ads that have yet to run.
Each of the three campaigns is expected to broadcast 30-minute appeals the night before the election, which ABC said it would cost the campaigns another $472,500.
 
Some Targeted Ads
 The network figures do not tell the full story. The Clinton campaign is expected to spend as much as the Bush campaign, but it is concentrating on local markets in crucial states, a tactic pioneered in earlier campaigns by Republicans. The Democrats say that targeting their advertising is more efficient because the campaign does not spend money on states where Mr. Clinton has either a comfortable lead or no chance of winning.
By contrast, the Bush campaign, which has found itself behind Mr. Clinton across the country, has emphasized national buys. But it, too, has purchased time in some targeted states, as has Mr. Perot, despite his preference for national commercials. The campaigns have refused to say exactly how much they are spending in local television markets.
In addition to the advertising purchased by the campaigns, other groups are buying air time to help particular candidates. Democratic Party officials say they expect to spent as much as $12 million on generic advertising that does not mention their candidates by name. Much of that will be spent in the final days of the campaign. On ABC alone, the Democrats have bought $1.7 million worth of time.
The more than $40 million spent on network advertising thus far is already a record; in 1988 the campaigns spent $38.5 million on network advertising in the general election, according to the Television Bureau of Advertising, a trade group.
Harold Simpson, a vice president of the bureau, said Mr. Perot's aggressive advertising efforts have helped spur Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton to compete. "Both parties," he said, "are pulling out all the stops at the national, regional and local levels."
Mr. Simpson said the bureau projected that candidates for national and local offices this election will spend more than $300 million on advertising, compared with nearly $230 million in 1988.
To fill half of the hour he purchased on ABC tonight, Mr. Perot broadcast a new presentation about building businesses and creating jobs, the central effort the Texas entrepreneur says he would bring to the White House.
But rather than giving an academic discourse on national tax and investment policy, Mr. Perot provided a Dale Carnegie-style lecture about his basic business principles.
"Listen, listen, listen to your customer," he said.
"Keep titles in the background. Keep performance in the foreground."
"If you have a corporate politician, fire him."
Mr. Perot suggested that his experience in building a large data-processing corporation was more applicable to the country's economic problems than his opponents' familiarity with fiscal policy.
"Economists base everything on theory," he said. "What we need is people with practical experience in business who know how to do this."
And when asked by his interviewer, actually his media consultant, how small new companies should compete with larger established ones, Mr. Perot gave a response that seemed intended as a metaphor for his campaign. "They will dismiss you as a loony for showing up and they will go into cardiac arrest when you win," he said.
The Perot campaign announced today that it had purchased time for still more "infomercials": 30 minutes on CBS on Wednesday night; 30 minutes on ABC and 60 minutes on NBC on Sunday night; and 30 minutes on all three networks on Monday night, the eve of the election.
Sharon Holman, Mr. Perot's press secretary, said she had high hopes for the new ads. "Probably, at least in my own opinion, there's nothing more powerful than Ross Perot looking right in the camera and talking to you," she said. "That's the reason for part of the success of the infomercials, and I think part of the success of the debates as well."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In the first two weeks of October, Ross Perot spent $26 million on campaign advertising, more than double the combined spending by the campaigns of President Bush and Gov. Bill Clinton. Election financial reports lay yesterday at the Federal Election Commission in Washington. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Buying Time" shows the amount spent on current general election campaign advertisments on network television. (Sources: ABC, CBS, NBC)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: AUSTRALIAN BROADCASTING CORP (82%); AUSTRALIAN BROADCASTING CORP (82%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ADVERTISING; FINANCES; TELEVISION MARKETING & ADVERTISING (94%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DIRECT RESPONSE TELEVISION (78%); INFOMERCIALS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (51%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; PEROT, ROSS BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1992



899 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: Santo Domingo Journal;
Shepherds, or Wolves? Whatever, Flocks Grow

BYLINE: By PETER STEINFELS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SANTO DOMINGO, Dominican Re public

 BODY:
To believe Pope John Paul II, Bienvenido Alvarez-Vega is one of the Protestant "rapacious wolves" who are increasingly stealing Latin Americans from the Roman Catholic flock.
After the Pope used that phrase in a speech to a meeting here of Latin American bishops in mid-October, Mr. Alvarez talked about religion in his roomy office at the Santo Domingo daily paper El Siglo. 
 Wearing a pink shirt and casual slacks, Mr. Alvarez did not look either rapacious or wolflike. But as an articulate, university-educated Pentecostal Christian who directs one of the Dominican Republic's major newspapers, he certainly represents the dramatic progress of evangelical Protestantism in lands that have been historically Catholic.
Adherents of Protestant evangelical or Pentecostal churches, often with roots in the United States like Mr. Alvarez's Assemblies of God or the Church of God based in Cleveland, Tenn., are estimated at 18 to 21 percent of the population in Brazil, 16 percent in Chile and 20 percent in El Salvador. Estimates for Guatemala range from 18 to 33 percent. The estimate for Latin American generally is 6 to 7 percent.
 
A Topic for the Bishops
 This growth, a major item on the agenda of the Latin American Episcopal Conference meeting here in October, has been bitterly attacked by many Catholic leaders. They have portrayed what they call "sects" as everything from Communist infiltrators to agents of Yankee capitalism, the Pentagon and the Central Intelligence Agency.
One passage of the Pope's official text echoed this vision of a well-orchestrated, well-financed religious invasion by outsiders: "We must not underestimate a certain strategy whose objective is to weaken the links that unite the countries of Latin America and in this way erode the strength born of unity. Important economic resources are allocated toward this goal, to finance proselytizing campaigns aimed at destroying Catholic unity."
But Mr. Alvarez said the Pope's speech actually represented a moderation of the Catholic attitude. The Pope, Mr. Alvarez noted, had also attributed the success of Protestant groups to shortcomings in the Catholic church's own pastoral efforts, including the shortage of priests.
Protestantism in the Dominican Republic has actually lagged behind that in other nations, although the ranks of evangelical and Pentecostal Christians here have included Cabinet ministers and a presidential candidate, Mr. Alvarez said.
Most of the growth, now encompassing about half a million of the nation's 11 million people, was occurring among the poor. The new Protestant groups are egalitarian, he said, breaking social barriers and sharing power in the congregations in a way that Catholicism did not.
"Anyone can talk, sing or give testimony," Mr. Alvarez said. "The service is spontaneous and indigenous," with local songs and rhythms.
Asked whether his Protestant faith made him feel like an outsider to Latin American culture, Mr. Alvarez said, "Exactly the opposite."
Mr. Alvarez grew up in a Catholic home in La Romana, a sugar town with a large number of English and American residents and "a lot of Protestant influences," he said. He joined the Assemblies of God at 12. When he went to the Autonomous University of Santo Domingo to study communications, he joined an evangelical group affiliated with Intra-Varsity Christian Fellowship.
"My origins were Pentecostal," he said. "But I received my most solid formation in traditional Protestantism -- Lutheranism and Calvinism but with a Latin American perspective." He met his wife, a member of the Free Methodist Church, through the Intra-Varsity Christian Fellowship.
"Nobody has made a greater effort to have a Latin American theology than evangelicals," he said, and before Catholics "we had the liturgy in our own languages."
The fact that evangelical services were in Spanish was one of the things that attracted the Rev. Kerry Gonzalez when he was a boy in Cuba. Today he and his wife, Ethel, a native of Kansas, are missionaries with the Assemblies of God at the Trinity Evangelical Church in Santo Domingo.
Mrs. Gonzalez took leave of an evening Bible lesson, led by a 34-year-old former drug addict who once lived in New York, to explain that the church began in the 1970's in a carport and then moved into rented halls. It now meets in a simple but spacious concrete building seating 300. It runs a dispensary with five doctors and a school attended by 1,000 children in two shifts daily.
Mrs. Gonzalez said that only the salaries of her and her husband came from the Assemblies of God in the United States. The Santo Domingo church also welcomes gifts for schoolbooks, medical supplies and other specific items from North American friends and local congregations. But most of the church's funds are raised from its Dominican members, she said.
While the Bible lesson went from plodding repetition to a shouting, singing crescendo, Mr. Gonzalez spoke of his disappointment with the Pope's words. "He has come from Poland and gone through persecution," the 60-year-old minister said, "Anyone who has gone through that should have a better sense of religious freedom."
At the offices of El Siglo, Mr. Alvarez acknowledged that in some countries the evangelical churches, which "often think more of heaven than of earth," he said, had been favored by military leaders and conservative forces as a counterweight to grass-roots protests backed by Catholic groups. But he warned that with the Catholic Church still enjoying special privileges in many Latin American countries, the conflict with Protestants was apt to intensify as the latter grew more numerous.
Mr. Alvarez criticized his fellow evangelicals, most of whom, he said, do not recognize Catholics as genuine Christians. "I think that's a tragedy," he said. "It shows a spiritual arrogance, a sense of having a monopoly on the truth which is not real.
"I think there are important differences of theology and liturgy, but what unites us is bigger than what separates us, and both paths are sincere searches for God."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The growth of evangelical Protestantism in Latin America has alarmed Catholic leaders. In the Dominican Republic, most of the growth, now encompassing about half a million of the nation's 11 million people, has occurred among the poor. Worshipers attended a service in the village of Salina. (Phillippe Diederich for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); CHILE (79%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (54%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (54%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;DOMINICAN REPUBLIC DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); CHILE (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: EVANGELICAL MOVEMENT; PROTESTANT CHURCHES RELIGION (99%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (97%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (95%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (93%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); EROSION (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (62%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: STEINFELS, PETER; ALVAREZ-VEGA, BIENVENIDO POPE JOHN PAUL II (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1992



900 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2308 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Issues -- Unanswered Questions;
Bush, Clinton and Perot Demonstrate How to Let the Worst Go Unspoken

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 26

 BODY:
At the beginning of the Presidential debate last Monday night, with 90 million Americans looking on, Gov. Bill Clinton was asked a straightforward question: How can voters believe that he can pay for all his campaign promises so painlessly?
It was an appropriate question. The Democratic Presidential nominee promises to create jobs, reduce the budget deficit, cut taxes of the middle class, reform welfare, provide universal medical insurance, guarantee college educations for everyone qualified and spend $20 billion a year more on new public works projects. 
 To pay for all that, he proposes little beyond higher taxes on the very wealthy and foreign corporations and modest additional cuts in military spending.
 
Shift Into Cruising Gear
 But it also was a question Mr. Clinton has fielded time and again this year before smaller audiences. So in the debate, he shifted into his familiar cruising gear. He responded that middle-class Americans were overtaxed. He decried "trickle-down" and "tax-and-spend" economics. He said the country could "increase investment and reduce the deficit at the same time."
Once again, he did not answer the question.
Throughout the campaign, Mr. Clinton, President Bush and Ross Perot have ducked a variety of questions -- or managed to avoid discussing certain difficult topics altogether. The matter of how they would pay for their campaign promises is foremost. But they have also dodged such issues as urban decay, homelessness and bank failures.
 
$250 Billion in Lost Revenue
 Mr. Bush is no more precise about how the country could afford the pinata filled with the tax cuts he favors: an across-the-board reduction by one percentage point in tax rates, increased personal exemptions for families with children, credits and deductions to help families pay for medical insurance, a cut in the capital gains tax rate, new tax breaks for investments in plants, machinery and real estate, tax credits for first-time homebuyers, more generous tax treatment of individual retirement accounts, lower small-business taxes and writeoffs for businesses that give workers time off in family emergencies. All together, these tax measures could cost the Government $250 billion or more in lost revenue over the next five years.
The President said last Monday night, as he has throughout the campaign, that he intended "to get the deficit down by controlling the growth of mandatory spending." Just what is this mandatory spending he wants to control, and how does he propose to control it? Mr. Bush never says.
Mr. Perot has made deficit reduction the focal point of his campaign, and he talks often about "fair, shared sacrifice." But even his ledger is heavy on the side of promises and light on the side of pain.
Tom Stacy, a law professor at De Paul University in Chicago who has scrutinized Mr. Perot's policy proposals, puts the matter this way: "Perot is not very different from the stereotypical politician from whom he tries to distance himself. He, too, promises that we can have our cake and eat it too. We can balance the budget while having everything else we want: economic growth, universal health care, better schools and safer streets."
 
The Deficit
Doubtful Figures For Many Plans
 The budget deficit -- the difference between what the Government spends and the revenue it takes in -- is expected to be nearly $350 billion in this fiscal year, by far the highest in the nation's history. All the candidates talk about reducing it.
Mr. Perot says he would eliminate it entirely in six years. Mr. Bush says he would lower the deficit by two-thirds at least, and Mr. Clinton promises to cut it in half during the next four years.
Almost without exception, independent experts who have studied these proposals say that the candidates' figures do not stand up to scrutiny.
"Clinton's plan just doesn't add up, and Bush hasn't proposed anything specific," said Stanley E. Collender, a specialist in the Federal budget at Price Waterhouse, the accounting firm. The Perot proposals, Mr. Collender added, have little meaning unless the independent candidate explains how he would reduce the Government's spending on Medicare and Medicaid, which will continue to mushroom if the law is not changed.
In fact, the biggest problem with all of their plans is that the three candidates want to overhaul the nation's medical care system to make health insurance much more widely available, but none have suggested realistically how this could be financed.
Mr. Clinton and Mr. Bush suggest it could be done by controlling medical costs in one way or another. Mr. Bush talks about somehow restraining malpractice lawsuits. Mr. Clinton has said he wants a Federal board to set prices. But the authorities doubt any of this would be sufficient, and say universal medical insurance could cost the Government as much as $20 billion a year.
Mr. Perot is even more vague. In the debate Monday night, here is how he described what he would do about the problem: "We've got plans lying all over the place in Washington. Nobody ever implements them. Now I'm back to square one. If you want to stop talking about it and do it, then I'll go up there, and we'll get it done."
Beyond the cost of medical care, the higher taxes Mr. Clinton proposes for the wealthy would be offset by the tax cuts for the middle class. Many tax analysts say Mr. Clinton's plan to tighten enforcement of tax laws affecting foreign corporations doing business in the United States would raise nowhere near the $45 billion over four years that he forecasts.
And while Mr. Clinton would reduce military spending by a total of $38 billion below current plans for the next five years, that would not begin to pay for $220 billion in new spending for new transportation, communications and environmental cleanup projects, research and development of new technology, education and job training.
Mr. Clinton's deficit reduction is based largely on his forecast that the economy will be stronger in the next few years than most economists are predicting.
Furthermore, his balance sheet shows the Government saving billions of dollars through such vague steps as revising the Defense Department inventory system, "management reform" in the savings and loan bailout and a 3 percent cut in "administrative waste." This sounds suspiciously like Ronald Reagan's unfulfilled pledge to eliminate the Government's "waste, fraud and abuse."
Mr. Bush's principal deficit-cutting proposal is to put a cap on the growth of what he calls "mandatory spending," what used to be called "entitlements." The President would allow these programs, under which benefits are paid automatically to everyone who is eligible, to grow no faster than the increase in the eligible population and the general rate of inflation. But since medical prices are rising far faster than the general rate of inflation, this means Mr. Bush will have to accept deep cuts in Government spending for Medicare and Medicaid, although he never says that.
This year the Government will spend $750 billion, about half the total budget, on these mandatory programs. About 40 percent of these funds will go for Social Security, which the President says he will not touch.
Most of the other programs, including welfare, food stamps and pensions for veterans and retired Government employees, already rise no faster than the rate of inflation and the increase in the number of people eligible. In fact, welfare benefits, adjusted for inflation, are now much lower than they were a decade ago.
The only places left for substantial cuts are Medicare and Medicaid, which are the fastest growing expenses in the budget next to interest on the national debt. Together, they will cost about $225 billion this year.
These programs are very popular, the foundation of the safety net for the elderly. Medicare provides health insurance for everyone 65 years of age and older. Medicaid is often thought of as the health insurance program for the poor, but three-quarters of Medicaid money goes for nursing home care.
If Mr. Bush has any real plan to limit Medicare and Medicaid spending, he has never let on during his nearly four years in office.
Mr. Perot says he would raise the gasoline tax by 10 cents a gallon each year for five years. The revenue, however, would go for public works projects, not for deficit reduction.
He does propose some other specific tax increases and spending reductions. But 20 percent of his deficit reduction would come from lower Medicare and Medicaid spending, and he has never said how he could deliver that.
 
Urban Blight
Little Discussion And Few Proposals
 Listening to the candidates, it is as if Los Angeles never burned last spring, as if homeless people are not sleeping on the grates in every city in America. There is little sense on the campaign trail that America is more than one big middle class with everyone equally imperiled by the economic downturn. And there is little recognition that a stronger economy might not be enough to solve some people's miseries.
"There has been remarkably little discussion of urban blight, given that the Los Angeles riots occurred in the middle of the political year," said Theda Skocpol, a Harvard sociologist who is writing a history of American social policy.
The candidates are avoiding the issue partly because the problems are immune to simple, inexpensive solutions, and are so laced with the explosive topic of race that they do not lend themselves to ordinary political discourse. But Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton also have their own, purely political reasons for shying away from the issue of poverty.
The President and his closest advisers believe that an aggressive antipoverty agenda like the one sought by his Housing Secretary, Jack F. Kemp, would raise expectations that could not be met and help mobilize constituencies that typically vote Democratic.
 
Fighting an Old Image
 Meanwhile, Mr. Clinton is trying to shed the image, used to advantage by Mr. Reagan, that Democrats are the party of poor people and members of minority groups, at the expense of the broad middle class.
In part, Governor Clinton is siding with those who believe that social policies limited to the poor, like welfare, will always be politically weak, since most Americans do not qualify for them. In this view, it is better to design programs like Social Security or universal medical insurance that help the poor but have the political support of the middle class.
Of course, the consequence of such a policy is that the nation ends up spending scarce resources on wealthy retired people and others who do not need them.
On the matter of homelessness, Secretary Kemp promised shortly after taking office at the beginning of the Bush Administration to make it one of his chief concerns. But generally, promises to make unused Federal property available to the homeless and to make special efforts to get Social Security benefits to homeless people who are mentally disabled have not been fulfilled.
In July, Mr. Clinton suggested that the Reagan and Bush Administrations were partly responsible for the growth in the number of homeless people. "Due to enormous cuts in Federal housing assistance in the Reagan-Bush era," Mr. Clinton said, "we suffer from a huge shortage of affordable housing, our pubic housing stock has deteriorated and homelessness has exploded."
But neither then nor at any other time in the campaign has Mr. Clinton said exactly what he would do about the problem.
 
The Banks
Hardly a Word As Crisis Looms
 In the Presidential campaign four years ago, Mr. Bush and Michael S. Dukakis ignored the collapsing savings and loan industry, which turned out to be the worst debacle in public finance since the Depression, one that will eventually cost the taxpayers as much as $500 billion. It turned out to be the first big issue Mr. Bush had to tackle once he was in the White House.
Once again, the situation is hardly being discussed. And when it does come up the candidates tend toward demagoguery. For example, Mr. Clinton and Mr. Perot have both accused the President of willingly spending billions on the savings and loan bailout while refusing to spend money on other problems.
But Mr. Bush has little choice. The money is being used to pay off depositors who had Government-insured accounts in savings institutions that failed. The Government cannot ignore those obligations any more than it could refuse to pay interest to holders of Government bonds.
The next administration will be confronted early on with the need to seek tens of billions of dollars of new taxpayer money to continue the savings and loan bailout. In addition, a new law that takes effect in December will require Government regulators to seize many troubled banks at a time when the bank insurance fund is already $5.5 billion in the red. The Office of Management and Budget has predicted that the insurance fund could face losses as high as $72 billion through 1995.
 
The Bailout Continues
 Both Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton have talked vaguely of the need to relax regulations over the banks to encourage more lending and stimulate the economy. But neither man has forthrightly said that the savings and loan bailout is still far from over, and that it may require $80 billion more to be completed.
Representative Henry B. Gonzalez, the Texas Democrat who heads the House Banking Committee, said Mr. Clinton and Mr. Bush had "trivialized the banking crisis by saying it does not exist."
The candidates are avoiding the issue largely because they see no benefit in bearing bad news. Both parties are to blame for the savings and loan and banking messes, and the issues are so technical and complicated that discussing them is hardly a sure way to win votes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; SURVEYS AND SERIES TAXES & TAXATION (91%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (74%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (71%); REAL ESTATE (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (67%); INFRASTRUCTURE (56%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); PEROT, ROSS BILL CLINTON (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1992



901 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1599 words

HEADLINE: SHAKE-UP AT G.M.;
STEMPEL QUITS JOB AS TOP G.M. OFFICER IN RIFT WITH BOARD

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 26

 BODY:
Robert C. Stempel resigned today as chairman and chief executive of the General Motors Corporation amid speculation about his imminent dismissal and the failure of the board of the world's largest manufacturer to give him a public vote of confidence.
Mr. Stempel's departure, the culmination of several days of reports of a widening rift between him and the board, represented a bitter realization that the apparent campaign against him and his record left him powerless to steer the huge, deeply troubled car-making empire. 
 Over the 27 months of his tenure, the company reported two years of losses, including the largest annual loss ever by an American company. And while he had moved to stem the flow of red ink, the nation's No. 1 auto maker is headed for another year of losses, thanks to the highest costs in the industry, a sluggish car market and G.M.'s inability to capture a thicker slice of the market with improved cars and trucks. Some say that given the state of the economy, Mr. Stempel never really had a chance to turn the company's fortunes around.
 
Possible Successor
 G.M.'s board accepted Mr. Stempel's resignation but asked him to remain until it named a successor, an action that is expected soon, or certainly after a board meeting scheduled for New York next Monday. One widely believed sequence is that the board will ask John G. Smale, the 65-year-old retired chairman of the Procter & Gamble Company and a G.M. board member who led a management shake-up seven months ago, to assume the chairmanship for an interim period.
No matter who takes over, G.M.'s new chairman will essentially be locked into drastic cost-cutting dictated both by G.M.'s past slowness to respond to competitive pressures and by the weak economy. [Page D6.]
As part of the shake-up, it is believed that Mr. Stempel's chief executive's duties will be assumed by John F. (Jack) Smith Jr., 54, the G.M. president who was installed at the board's direction last April. Mr. Smith, who has 31 years with G.M. and is credited with turning around the auto maker's European operations in the 1980's, is focusing on the company's money-losing North American operations.
If Mr. Smith were to become chief, the board's clear mandate would be to take whatever action he thought necessary to quickly stanch financial losses, which might mean further elimination of jobs, more plant closings, sale of nonessential subsidiaries, executive dismissals and, perhaps, renegotiating the auto maker's labor agreement with the United Automobile Workers union.
"At this point, the board has no justification for not letting Smith forge his own course," said Jeffrey Sonnenfeld, a professor of business at Emory University who specializes in corporate leadership. "People in G.M. will be reluctant to act if they think he doesn't have the board's confidence."
 
Wall Street Reaction
 Mr. Stempel's resignation came early in the day, before trading of G.M. shares began on the New York Stock Exchange. By the end of the day, G.M. shares were the most active, closing up 62.5 cents each, to $34.125. Since word of Mr. Stempel's possible ouster first circulated, investors had been bidding up G.M. shares aggressively.
In tendering his resignation, Mr. Stempel agreed to stay on until the board selected a successor. But in a statement, he pointedly added, "I could not in good conscience continue to watch the effects of rumors and speculation that have undermined and slowed the efforts of G.M. people to make this a stronger, more efficient, effective organization."
Mr. Smale issued a separate statement as chairman of the board's executive committee, in which he said the board "will announce our management changes as soon as practicable."
If Mr. Smale, an outsider, does take over, it would fulfill what many experts in corporate governance have been urging for hidebound American corporations: the breakup of the clubby atmosphere in corporate board rooms, where top executives rarely face tough grading of their performance and directors rarely take direct action.
 
Shivers in Detroit
 The events of the last two weeks, portending more painful retrenchment, have struck deeply at the pride of G.M. executives and workers, and sent shivers throughout Detroit.
Within hours of the announcement, chief executives of the Ford Motor Company and the Chrysler Corporation issued sympathetic farewells to Mr. Stempel, a well-regarded automotive engineer who, like all of his predecessors, had been carefully groomed for the G.M. chairmanship for more than a decade.
While Mr. Stempel might have been a perfect chief executive in good times, he was a product of the G.M. system and was ill-suited to break the culture that had for years worked against the company in a generation of rapid change and global competition.
"A certain esprit may have been shattered at G.M., and I don't think that's bad," said Elmer W. Johnson, a former G.M. executive who is a partner with the law firm of Kirkland & Ellis in Chicago. "A new chief executive will have an opportunity to build a culture that is more in tune with the times."
The United Automobile Workers union, reacting to Mr. Stempel's resignation, jabbed at what it described as G.M. directors' "tactics of management by rumor, news leak and innuendo."
The U.A.W., which represents 308,000 G.M. hourly workers in the United States and has endorsed Gov. Bill Clinton for the Presidency, imparted a political flavor to its statement, calling Mr. Stempel a "victim" of misguided "White House policies that have relentlessly tightened a noose around our nation's domestic auto producers."
 
Tough Bargaining Ahead
 Hourly workers are only too aware that the dire financial conditions leading to Mr. Stempel's exit might result in tough bargaining soon over the most generous pay and job security benefits in American industry. In any case, bargaining for a new long-term labor agreement is only about nine months away.
Mr. Stempel's resignation capped a tumultuous period of news leaks and rumors -- and G.M. denials -- that he was on the way out. It also was a trying month for him personally. On the day The Washington Post reported that he might be dismissed if he did not toughen his stance against the union, Mr. Stempel collapsed at a meeting in Washington and was hospitalized there for two days suffering from high blood pressure.
Over Labor Day weekend, G.M. settled a damaging U.A.W. strike that exploded into 14 plant closings after the union protested management's attempt to phase out 240 parts-making jobs.
Since 1986, when G.M. directors voted to buy Ross Perot's G.M. stock for $750 million and force the Texas billionaire out of the company, G.M. directors have been taking a more active and visible role in management, under the urging and guidance of Ira Millstein, a senior partner of Weil, Gotshal & Manges in New York. Mr. Millstein declined to discuss the board's actions.
Mr. Perot's fight was largely with the leadership style and strategies of Mr. Stempel's predecessor, Roger B. Smith, whose unwillingness to cut unused capacity was at the heart of Mr. Stempel's problems.
 
Assessing the Blame
 Carl Sewell, a Cadillac dealer in Dallas, echoed the views of many G.M. executives and managers reacting to Mr. Stempel's resignation when he said Mr. Smith deserved "much more blame than Bob Stempel." Mr. Smith remains a G.M. director, though not in the group of 11 who are active in governance.
But another expert in corporate governance, who spoke on condition of anonymity said: "Bob can't get off free. He was at Roger Smith's side for most of the 1980's; he agreed with everything Roger did." Before becoming chairman in 1990, Mr. Stempel was president and chief operating officer and held several other important jobs.
Mr. Sonnenfeld, the Emory professor, while praising directors for acting, said: "It should have been 10 years ago. The band-aid being pulled off so slowly only has heightened the level of anxiety. Uncertainty is worse than decisive, traumatic action."
But last Thursday evening, only hours after Mr. Smale signaled the board's loss of confidence in the G.M. chairman, Mr. Stempel still felt confident enough to preside at a retirement dinner for Charles Jordan, the auto maker's styling chief. As executives dined in a paneled third-floor dining room of the venerable Detroit Club, Mr. Stempel assured colleagues the newspaper reports of his departure were nothing but rumors.
"He seemed O.K. to me," said a G.M. executive who spoke on condition of anonymity. "He said everything was going to be all right."
In accordance with longstanding G.M. ritual, Mr. Jordan received an inscribed silver platter, which retired G.M. officers refer to as their "pickle dish," and the 50 or so officers watched a 12-minute film of Mr. Jordan's life prepared by G.M. video technicians.
 
Eyes on the Chairman
 From the corners of many eyes, officers were watching Mr. Stempel. Hurt and disappointed because G.M. directors -- who possessed little or no direct automotive experience -- had emasculated their leader, they may have wondered if he could win back his power by proving there was no way to speed changes already underway. "I thought he just might tough it out," said one middle manager on Sunday night.
But by the weekend, Mr. Stempel had concluded that the lack of confidence from the board, as well as G.M.'s mounting financial woes and the deepening anxiety that he might not be able to restructure quickly enough to prevent a cash crisis, was too much to bear.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "G.M.Stock in the Stempel Years" shows the daily closing prices on the New York Stock Exchange from Aug. 3-Oct. 27. (Source: Datastream) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (66%); PG (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (66%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (66%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (66%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; BOARDS OF DIRECTORS; FINANCES; LABOR; CONTRACTS ; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); LAYOFFS (LABOR); AUTOMOBILES AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); DISMISSALS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); DIVESTITURES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (61%); CLOSINGS (60%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P; STEMPEL, ROBERT C; SMALE, JOHN G; SMITH, JOHN F JR ROBERT C STEMPEL (94%); JOHN F (JACK) SMITH JR (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1992



902 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Republicans;
Bush, Sounding Like His Rivals, Tones Down His Attacks, Briefly

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBUQUERQUE, N.M., Oct. 26

 BODY:
President Bush set aside his unremitting assault on Gov. Bill Clinton for a few hours this morning to make a final attempt to address the currents of discontent in 1992.
He painted himself as a "conservative activist" combining the most popular attributes of Ross Perot and Mr. Clinton. But by midafternoon in Albuquerque, Mr. Bush was back on the full-throated attack, talking about his opponents' "crazy ideas" and directing the ire of his supporters at the press while his advisers tried to come to grips with a rapidly changing political landscape. 
 Mr. Bush's attacks on Mr. Clinton had helped produce the shift in public opinion polls that the Republicans had been seeking for weeks. But to the dismay of the Bush camp, it succeeded only in pushing Mr. Perot up and did nothing to improve the President's own standing.
 
Forget the Stand-In
 Midway through a Rocky Mountain campaign swing dominated by the urgent need to come to grips with that situation, Mr. Bush went to Denver this morning to appear before a conference of Ace Hardware store owners and deliver a domestic policy speech that had been planned for his chief of staff, James A. Baker 3d. But White House strategists concluded that having Mr. Baker speak for Mr. Bush there would only add to the notion that Mr. Bush was weak on domestic policy.
The talk turned into an unlikely mixture of the President's own proposals, including the line-item veto and a balanced-budget amendment, Perot-like calls for a joining of forces to break Washington's gridlock and compassionate talk of lifting up future generations that was reminiscent of Mr. Clinton's own oratory.
 
A Promise on Deadlines
 Mr. Bush said he would work with newly elected members of Congress to produce a bipartisan package of economic measures, which he did not spell out but would clearly be based on his own ideas, before a second inauguration on Jan. 20. He said he would create two new teams, one to shepherd his programs through Congress and another to prepare military plants for conversion to civilian production.
Mr. Bush, who has come under fire from within his own party for setting political deadlines and letting them pass almost unnoticed, vowed that a second term would be different. "We'll set deadlines for decisions and we'll meet them," he said.
Mr. Bush's remarks were based on a calculation by his advisers that Mr. Perot is about to slide in the polls and that Mr. Bush must therefore do something to stop Mr. Perot's supporters from backing Mr. Clinton.
"A lot of Perot's supporters are not going to pull his lever in the voting booth," a Bush campaign official said today. "They're going to vote for one of the other two candidates and we have to give them a reason to make that George Bush. That requires a positive message, not just attacks."
But Mr. Perot's accusations on Sunday of Republican dirty tricks only served to complicate things. Bush aides went into a state of alarm today as attention turned equally to a hotly worded retort by Marlin Fitzwater, the White House spokesman, who called Mr. Perot "crazy" and "paranoid."
 
Borrowed Themes
 In trying to reach out to Perot backers in Denver this morning, Mr. Bush seemed to appropriate ideas from each of his rivals: Mr. Clinton's cultivated image of compassion and change, and Mr. Perot's themes of efficiency and can-do American capitalism.
"The real choice is not between activism and passivity," Mr. Bush said. "The real choice is between a liberal activist Government that seeks to impose solutions on individuals, families and the private sector, and a conservative activist Government that gives individuals, families and businesses the means to make their own choices through competition and economic opportunity."
In outlining his "vision for America," Mr. Bush seemed to dwell primarily on the past, giving himself credit for ending the cold war and denouncing Mr. Clinton as a "tax and spend" Democrat.
It was only when he sought to portray himself as a man of action that Mr. Bush offered new themes that some of his advisers and other Republicans had been trying to inject into his speeches for months.
"As the support for Ross Perot has made clear, there is a strong desire for a new coalition in America -- to overcome gridlock, to get the job done," Mr. Bush said.
To address the need to convert military plants to civilian uses, Mr. Bush said: "Immediately following the election, I will assemble a defense conversion council. And it will include every necessary Cabinet agency and work closely with key members of the United States Congress."
Mr. Bush, in a distinctly Clinton-like turn of phrase, also said he would create "a fund for future generations" that would provide seed money to use weapons-making technology for peaceful ends.
Noting that scores of new members of Congress will be elected in November, the President said, "I plan to use the time from Nov. 4 through convening of the new Congress to meet with all the new members of Congress, regardless of party and to shape a legislative package in a way that will guarantee swift passage."
Mr. Bush did not offer any details of what he meant by a legislative package.
Mr. Bush, who has made character the centerpiece of his attack on Mr. Clinton, said in Denver that the choice of a President in 1992 came down to "ideas, action, character." He talked of his anguish over the decision to send Americans into war with Iraq.
"When you enter that voting booth," he said, "ask yourself three common-sense questions: Who has the right vision for America's future? Who can get us from here to there? And which character has the character? And who would you trust with your family or with the United States of America in a crisis?"
But by the time he arrived in Albuquerque, Mr. Bush was back to ridiculing Mr. Clinton, using a comment in which the Democrat confused a Patriot anti-missile weapon with a cruise missile to suggest that he knew nothing about military affairs. "He was the guy who said the Patriot missile was the one that goes down chimneys," Mr. Bush said. "Governor, that is Santa Claus."
With a sneer, he added: "I mean, come on. This guy wants to be Commander in Chief and he doesn't know the difference between a Patriot and Santa Claus."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush addressing Ace Hardware store owners at the Colorado Convention Center in Denver. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times) (pg. A19)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (87%); 

CITY: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (90%); DENVER, CO, USA (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;DENVER (COLO) UNITED STATES (93%); NEW MEXICO, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (87%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (90%); DENVER, CO, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); VETO (79%); CONSERVATISM (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); HARDWARE STORES (66%); BUDGETS (64%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); PEROT, ROSS; BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1992



903 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Connecticut Senate Candidates Debate (Politely)

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEW LONDON, Conn., Oct. 26

 BODY:
Connecticut's Senate candidates, who have attacked and ridiculed each other in television commercials in recent weeks, were absolute gentlemen tonight in a muted, polite debate before a statewide television audience.
The Democratic incumbent, Christopher J. Dodd, and the Republican challenger, Brook Johnson, did disagree on some issues -- notably how and which types of capital gains taxes might best be cut to stimulate the economy, and whether a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution would really help reduce the nation's budget deficit. Mr. Dodd called the amendment idea a gimmick; Mr. Johnson said it would force lawmakers to focus on the task of budget cutting. 
 But if viewers had expected fireworks in the last of three debates for the candidates, they were disappointed. The tone of the hour, which was sponsored by the League of Women Voters and the New London Day newspaper, was often downright respectful.
Mr. Johnson's recent television commercial, for example, portrays Mr. Dodd as a globe-trotting politician who cannot be bothered with the problems of Connecticut, illustrating the point by showing Mr. Dodd's picture superimposed underneath series of different silly hats and native head-dresses from around the world. But in the debate, Mr. Johnson actually praised Mr. Dodd for his efforts to help save defense jobs in Connecticut -- a major issue especially in this corner of the state -- and skipped opportunities to draw blood.
"You're a little more macro in the way you look at it, I'm a little more micro -- now that doesn't mean you're wrong and I'm right," said Mr. Johnson, a businessman making his first run for office, in one typical exchange about taxes and economic policy.
Mr. Dodd, who is seeking his third six-year term in the Senate, needled Mr. Johnson several times about investing capital from his textile business in Canada instead of the United States, and pointed out several times to the audience that Mr. Johnson had not really answered a question put to the candidates by a panel of journalists. But he stopped short of the pointed questioning that characterized their last debate last week -- about Mr. Johnson's business record, his lack of public experience, and his failure to vote in many elections.
Their most substantive exchange came over a question about taxes. Mr. Johnson said he favored reducing the capital-gains taxes on profits from the sale of stock or real-estate, for example, if the asset is held for a certain length of time.
Mr. Dodd said he wanted a targeted capital gains tax cut that would give tax breaks to developing companies, which would create jobs in the future. Mr. Johnson's plan, Mr. Dodd charged, would simply transfer more of the nation's wealth to the rich.
"This is exactly how we got into the mess, with that mentality and those ideas that created the leveraged buy outs and the acquisitions and the mergers -- the predators that destroyed, in my view, a good part of our economy in the 1980's," Mr. Dodd said.
Mr. Johnson disagreed, saying his plan would free capital for investment and job-creation, but would not enrich short-term speculators.
"There's no clearer choice for the state of Connecticut than between Chris Dodd and myself," Mr. Johnson said later in the debate. "I am an outsider with no political background and no political experience -- Chris is definitely a political insider with a lot of political background and political experience."
The real problem of Washington, Mr. Johnson said, is that people fight too much over politics.
"What has to happen in this next term in Washington, whether I'm there or you're there, is that there has to be some burying of the hatchet, because the only ones with their heads on the chopping block are we the American taxpayers," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; DEBATING POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); JOB CREATION (70%); VOTERS & VOTING (68%); WRITERS (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); TEXTILES (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK; DODD, CHRISTOPHER J (SEN); JOHNSON, BROOK CHRISTOPHER DODD (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1992



904 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: Budget Surplus Is Projected By Analysts In New York

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Oct. 26

 BODY:
New York State's leaders, who for the last four years faced massive midyear budget deficits that spurred bitter political fights and painful spending cuts, announced today that they were facing something all but forgotten in the Capitol: a budget surplus.
The surplus, while negligible in size, nonetheless indicates that the state's $30.9 billion budget is in balance. That alone suggests a significant turnaround not only in the state government's financial condition, but also in the way it approaches budgeting. 
 Last year at this time, state officials said there was a $689 million deficit. The announcement was followed by months of budget battles that Gov. Mario M. Cuomo said kept him on the sidelines of the Presidential campaign and that caused a damaging cut in the state's credit rating.
 
Cautious Revenue Forecasts
 Today's report, from the state Division of the Budget, could be the first step in a lengthy process aimed at restoring the state's credit rating, which sank earlier this year to the lowest of any state in the nation. Massachusetts, which previously held that dubious distinction but was forced to grapple with its budget problems earlier than New York, got such a boost this summer.
The small surplus of $21 million was tied not so much to any fundamental recovery in New York's economy, but to cautious revenue forecasts built into last spring's budget agreement and an economy that has not grown significantly worse since then, budget analysts said.
Today's announcement from the budget division, which is overseen by Governor Cuomo, came barely a week before all 211 state legislative seats are up for election. But the budget report was required by law to be made before this Friday, which marks the official midpoint of the state fiscal year.
Mr. Cuomo is not on the ballot, and if anything, the news would appear to be most beneficial to his Republican adversaries, who are facing a tough battle in their bid to maintain control of the state Senate. The Democrats have an all but unshakable hold on the Assembly.
Last year, at the height of the budget battles, Mr. Cuomo accused the Republicans of driving the state to the brink of financial ruin, and pledged that he would remind the voters of their alleged transgressions this fall. But Mr. Cuomo was mostly smiles when he appeared with the Republican Senate leader, Ralph J. Marino, this afternoon at a bill-signing ceremony.
 
'Going to Get Killed'
 The Governor, Mr. Marino and Democratic lawmakers ratified a "memorandum of understanding" for how they planned to spend the money from the $800 million economic-development bond act, if voters give their approval to it next Tuesday.
Last December, after the State Senate refused to go along with the Governor's plan for a multiyear solution to the state's budget ills, a furious Mr. Cuomo said of Mr. Marino and his Republican colleagues: "They're going to get killed when they are revealed to the world. They are going to get badly burned." Mr. Marino himself is now facing a bruising re-election battle.
But today, asked whether he wished to reiterate such comments, Mr. Cuomo simply said voters should "remember what the Republicans did, they should remember what the Democrats did.
"They should punish the bad guys and support the good guys," he said. Asked just who the "bad guys" were, the Governor waved the question off.
 
Warning: It's an Estimate
 The surplus revealed today is so relatively tiny that there is no chance that the Governor and legislative leaders will return here to fight over how to divvy it up, just as they fought in past years over how to close the deficit. They will, however, return to fight: a special session is expected to be held in December to grapple with a separate, contentious budget issue of how to finance various transportation programs, including a capital plan for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
In fact, budget analysts warned today that the figure was only an estimate of where the state would wind up at the end of the fiscal year next March, and that the budget could fall out of balance.
And Mr. Cuomo, speaking to reporters at the Capitol, said that it would be "very tough" to put together next year's budget, due April 1.
"We're $21 million ahead and believe me, that's glorious considering where we've been in recent years," he said. "But next year is going to be very, very difficult."
In recent years, when the midyear deficits have ranged to as high as $1 billion, the Governor and the legislative leaders have had to eliminate thousands of state jobs, cut aid that had been previously pledged to local governments and school districts and pare social services like Medicaid.
At times they also fought, as they did last year, to a standoff over where to make additional cuts and wound up borrowing money to keep the budget legally balanced. That only worsened the problems in the next fiscal year.
This time around, the projected surplus appears to eliminate the prospect of such cuts or of any mid-year tax increases for New Yorkers. But an analyst at the Citizens Budget Commission, one of the best-known private groups that monitors the state's fiscal practices, warned that today's announcement did not guarantee that the surplus would be there at the end of the year.
"It's heartening to see that the receipts seem to be on target, but of course, the revenues could change, the economic picture could change," said the analyst, Cynthia Green. She also said that state leaders would have to avoid any temptation to increase spending before the fiscal year ends March 31. "What's critical is to stick to this plan not just for six months, but for the full 12 months," she said.
There was no expectation here that today's word would lead to any immediate upgrade of the state's credit rating, which could lower the costs of borrowing money and save the state taxpayers millions of dollars.
George W. Leung, the vice president and managing director for state debt ratings at Moody's Investors Service, said it was clearly "good news" that, for the first time in five years, there appeared to be no mid-year deficit.
But, he said, several additional steps toward "structural reform," including cuts that would recur in future years, would likely be necessary before a credit upgrading would be addressed. Even Mr. Cuomo said he did not expect any re-evaluation from the raters, at the earliest, until after the state's 1993-94 budget was put together next spring.


GRAPHIC: '87-'88: $24 million
Graph: "The State Budget: Surplus and Deficit History" -- New York State budget officials projected yesterday that the state, now halfway through its current fiscal year, will have a small surplus at the end ot the fiscal year next March. Here is a comparison of similar projections from recent years:
 '88-'89: -$994 million
 '89-'90: -$277 million
 '90-'91: -$824 million
 '91-'92: -$689 million
 '92-'93: $21 million
 (Source: State Division of the Budget) (pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (92%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (92%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (92%); REPUBLICAN SENATE (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN SENATE (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FORECASTS BUDGETS (97%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGET FORECASTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); BONDS (68%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE MARIO M CUOMO (91%); RALPH J MARINO (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1992



905 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: Abrams-D'Amato Race Becomes a Family Affair

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
The New York Senate campaign has just entered a new arena of ruthless, cutthroat competition.
It pits the Matriarch against the Modern American Wife, Mama vs. Ms. And it uses a gauzy new feel-good ad as an insidious weapon in an increasingly negative campaign. 
 Attorney General Robert Abrams may have started it by showcasing his family at every opportunity. But now Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato has retaliated by going nuclear.
"I'm very much surprised at Abrams talking the way he has," Antoinette D'Amato, 77 years old, said sternly in Buffalo, referring to Mr. Abrams's one-time use of the word "fascist" to refer to Mr. D'Amato. She shook her head sorrowfully. "Does he talk that way at home?" she added. "He has really, really insulted us."
This is not Family Feud. It is war. From the start, Mr. Abrams has been behaving like a contender for a Father of the Year award, persistently taking his two daughters out to campaign at his side. Last Sunday, he took his 6-year-old daughter, Becky, campaigning, perching her up on a long table on the stage during a meeting of the Jewish Electrical Welfare Club in Flushing, Queens. Father fussed dotingly over her coat buttons and hat. Daughter chewed at a bagel.
 
And Now, the Loyal Daughter
 Meanwhile, Mr. Abrams's bright, articulate wife, Diane, a lawyer, frequently travels upstate to campaign on his behalf on women's issues, particularly abortion.
But now Mr. D'Amato, who is separated from his wife and has four grown children, has taken the battle of the family albums to new heights.
Mr. D'Amato's mother and his daughter Lisa Murphy, 30, began a two-day, seven-city media tour yesterday to defend his honor and lacerate his opponent. It is Lisa who is featured in the latest D'Amato campaign commercial, mistily saying how "proud" she is of "my dad." But her grandmother is the star of the D'Amato family road show, commenting acerbically on everything from pasta to Presidential politics.
"You mean to tell me with all that power and money, he's afraid of anybody?" Mrs. D'Amato said of Ross Perot's contention that fear of Republican "dirty tricks" drove him to quit the Presidential race. "Aw, c'mon."
This is not the first time Mr. D'Amato has come up with a good-ad/bad-ad media strategy. In 1980, Mr. D'Amato appalled many New York Republicans when he ran ads during the primary that focused, rather brutally, on Senator Jacob K. Javits's ill health. Later, in the general election, Mr. D'Amato softened his image with ads that featured his mother, holding grocery bags, complaining about inflation and bragging about "my son, Alfonse." (Like another well-known Italian-American, the film maker Martin Scorsese, Mr. D'Amato likes to give cameo roles to his funny, outspoken mother.)
She campaigned for him in 1980 and again in 1986, handing out her personal Italian cookbook, "Recipes for the Forgotten Middle-Class." "Lisa is continuing the family tradition that Mama started in 1980," said Zenia Mucha, the Senator's spokeswoman. "He credited Mama with getting him elected. Now Lisa is bringing across the message that her father, the Senator, has always been there for the people of the state of New York."
This year, in a Senate contest that is routinely referred to as the nastiest in the nation, the Senator seems to be relying once again on his family to help paint him in homey, rosy hues.
"Proud" is the first word uttered by his daughter in the latest D'Amato ad, a softly lit 30-second commercial that could pass for a holiday season Hallmark ad. "That's how I feel about Al D'Amato," she says straight into the camera, while seated at a piano topped with framed photographs of her children. "He was the first Italian-American elected to the Senate from New York." As lilting piano music plays softly in the background, she adds: "Al D'Amato is always there to help. But then, I'm partial. You see, Al D'Amato is my father."
The Abrams campaign, which has been struggling to keep up with Mr. D'Amato's carpet-bombing negative ad campaign, seemed taken aback by this latest surprise sally into the Mary Poppins positive. Timothy Gilles asked a reporter to read the text of Lisa Murphy's ad, then remained silent for several moments. "I'll have to call you back in five minutes," he said.
Five minutes later, Mr. Gilles made the following statement. "It sounds like a nice, warm, positive spot. And it marks the first time since Sept. 15 that Al D'Amato has done anything other than sling mud, lies and distortion at Bob Abrams."
He added that the impetus for the ad must have been that "he's run out of lies." But he would not say if the Abrams campaign would respond in kind to Mr. D'Amato's family ads. "It is our policy not to preview our media strategy," he said.
Off-screen and on the stump, both Lisa Murphy and her grandmother are ferocious in defending Mr. D'Amato's reputation. "Al was very upset," his mother said, referring to the Senate Ethics Committee investigation that criticized him for "improper and inappropriate" use of his office. "What they put him though is unconscionable. Where is the money? He's an honest person," she said insistently. "If he wasn't, he'd be a millionaire."
Ms. Murphy said she had agreed to film the commercial because "it's very important that people understand that Al D'Amato is a politician -- he's a career politician -- but he also has children, parents, people who care about him, especially when he is maligned in the media."
 
Following the Democrats
 The idea to add his daughter to his arsenal came during the primary, Ms. Murphy said. The entire D'Amato family watched the debates between the three Democratic candidates, and noticed how much attention Mr. Abrams's photogenic family received. "We watched carefully," Ms. Murphy said. "When it was over, immediately, his children ran up on stage. Of course the media focused on him and his children."
She added that in the second debate, she noticed that two of Mr. Abrams's rivals, Elizabeth Holtzman and Geraldine A. Ferraro, made a point of having family members rush to their side.
And when Mr. Abrams and Mr. D'Amato had their first television debate last month, Lisa Murphy skipped a cousin's wedding to be at her father's side, with her three children in tow. Mr. Abrams did not bring his family. "He must have presumed that my father, who is separated and doesn't have young children, wouldn't bring his family to the debate," she said. "That's probably why he didn't bring his family to the debate." She paused, and with her father's keen competitive zest, added, "I'm sure he regrets it."
Prodded by her grandmother, she added, "Oh, yeah, and we wanted to be there for moral support, as well."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In a campaign referred to as the nastiest in the nation, Attorney General Robert Abrams and Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato are trying to use positive images of their families to offset weeks of negative campaigning. Mr. D'Amato's daughter Lisa Murphy appears in a TV commercial, mistily saying how proud she is of her father (Michael J. Okoniewski for The New York Times) (pg. B1); Attorney General Robert Abrams has showcased his family at every opportunity during his campaign. He brought his daughter Becky to a recent Liberal Party dinner. (Associated Press) (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: QUEENS, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY NEW YORK SENATE (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY NEW YORK SENATE (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); QUEENS, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE; TELEVISION; POLITICAL ADVERTISING CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); WOMEN (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); 

PERSON: STANLEY, ALESSANDRA; D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN); ABRAMS, ROBERT (ATTY GEN) ALFONSE M D'AMATO (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1992



906 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1463 words

HEADLINE: Space Station, Promised for '92, Is Still Mostly on Drawing Board

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD

DATELINE: CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla.

 BODY:
THIS is the year the space station was to begin flying as an orbital outpost for American astronauts, opening a new era of exploration in time for the 500th anniversary of Columbus's arrival in the New World.
NASA laid out the plan in 1984, saying the venture would cost $8 billion and take eight years. 
 But as of today, with that sum expended, there is no station in orbit, little hardware ready for flight and few chances that the 350-foot-long outpost will be completed before the century's end, if then.
Moreover, the nation's space shuttles, which were to be lofting station parts and supplies by now, are beginning to fly half empty for want of payloads.
What does exist, scattered across the back roads of America, are down-to-earth leviathans like the $500 million structure being erected here at the Kennedy Space Center. It is the biggest construction job at the spaceport since the Apollo program to reach the Moon.
Surrounded by a dense growth of palm, pine and palmetto, the six-story structure is the size of two football fields and is envisioned as a high-technology workshop for 1,500 experts preparing station gear for space. It will be ready in 1994.
Officials of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration say the Kennedy building and its cousins in places like Cleveland, Houston and Huntsville, Ala., are the concrete basis of big dreams. Buildings tend to be further along than flight hardware, they say, because budget turmoil and years of Congressional meddling have forced repeated redesigns of the outpost, often restricting progress to the mundane.
But the sites do at times suggest the triumph of bricks and mortar over higher pursuits. In one case, a building was erected in 1987 for testing a space-station component that was later eliminated as the design of the outpost evolved.
If nothing else, the earthbound side of the station saga helps explain where the $8 billion has gone and why the station's estimated price has climbed to between $30 billion and $40 billion. It also hints at the political momentum that can carry a big science project forward long after the motivating spark has gone away.
The orbiting outpost was proposed in 1984 by President Ronald Reagan, who was dazzled by its commercial promise and the vision of astronauts permanently based hundreds of miles above Earth. "We can follow our dreams to distant stars," he said in unveiling the plan, "living and working in space for peaceful, economic and scientific gain."
After the speech, Congress embraced the idea and NASA's eight-year, $8 billion plan. "The benefits to the human race are only beginning to be imagined," said Senator Slade Gorton, chairman of the Senate space subcommittee. And he praised the goal of deploying the station in 1992, calling it "an appropriate celebration for the 500th anniversary of the arrival in America by Columbus."
Over the next few years two things conspired to slow the plan, and at times nearly to kill it. One was the mushrooming of the modest station idea to embrace the needs of new users, contractors and political allies. Added to Mr. Reagan's commercial aims were plans for an observatory, an Earth-observation post, a fuel depot, a satellite service station and a base for planetary exploration.
The station was to be all things to all people. But the price mushroomed as well, prompting a vicious cycle of fund shortages, delays, cost increases and design revisions meant to trim the bloated station back to a reasonable size.
 
A Change in Plans
 Throughout this turmoil, the earthly infrastructure of the station grew steadily. The buildings tended to be large, following the most optimistic projections of their usefulness. At NASA's Lewis center in Cleveland, work began in 1987 on a six-story building to test 60-foot solar collectors whose high temperatures would power turbines to make electricity. The building opened in 1989. But by 1990, the collectors had been scrapped as too advanced and demanding. Instead, the designers decided to use passive solar cells on the orbiting outpost.
John Kobak, Lewis's director of station work, said the building had now been adapted for use as a manufacturing center. He also said Lewis had built a mission-control center for 36 technicians who would monitor the electrical systems of the station.
"We're the only center that didn't have a facility like that," he said, noting that NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville and the Johnson Space Center in Houston both had ground-control centers to govern various aspects of the station's flight.
At Johnson, work is nearly finished on three new station buildings, including a main mission control center that is to house four mainframe computers, 90 computerized work stations and 300 personnel. The other buildings are a training site for astronauts where on-board station jobs will be simulated and a center in which techniques will be practiced for astronauts to assemble the station structure in space.
Officials at Johnson also want, but have yet to receive approval for, a large new indoor swimming pool in which astronauts would practice station assembly techniques in the next-best-thing to weightlessness. The pool would be 202 feet long, 102 feet wide and 40 feet deep.
The biggest of all station buildings is at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida, not far from the pounding surf and the dense jungle typical of the area. This is where all the station hardware is to come together before being carried into space on 18 shuttle flights. This is where gear is to be rigorously tested to make sure it works and fitted together in an effort to make sure that the myriad parts of the 350-foot-long structure were designed correctly.
"Our goal is to find any goofs before we get on orbit," said Dick Lyon, head of Kennedy's space station work.
Also on the agenda are plans for feeding the 1,500 workers at the Kennedy site in a large cafeteria being built next door, and giving the public a glimpse of station processing through a viewing gallery. Up to 300 tourists at a time will be able to watch through bulletproof glass.
 
Construction at Site
 Today the site is a blur of cranes, trucks, dust, hardhats, building materials and the emerging giant, which looms over the nearby jungle like a creature from outer space. It is about 60 percent complete.
Its interior is a maze of steel girders that outline what will be laboratories and supply rooms. At the rear, things open up into a cavernous six-story hangar where station parts are to be checked out. The area, 105 feet wide and 440 feet long, is big enough to simultaneously process hardware for eight station-building flights. Each site for payload processing is about 45 feet by 90 feet, surrounding a cargo space that corresponds to the shuttle's 15-by-60 foot payload bay.
It is easy to get a false impression of the cost of the Kennedy structure. A NASA publication, "Space Station Freedom Media Handbook," a 102-page guide to the orbiting outpost, dated May 1992, says the bill will be "approximately $72 million."
 
1996 Launching Target
 But Mr. Lyon, a genial, balding man with an easy smile who has worked at the Florida spaceport since the Apollo program, says that figure is only for bricks and mortar. Equipping the site with cranes, computers, test stands, forklifts, nitrogen and helium outlets and the piles of complex gear needed to check out station hardware will cost $375 million more. The total, he said, will be roughly $500 million.
Mr. Lyon said that by early 1996 the structures and their equipment would be ready to support the first planned launchings that year of shuttles carrying station parts into space.
If Gov. Bill Clinton becomes President and decides to work more closely on the station effort with the Russians, as he has vowed to do, the sprawling site here, like its sister in Cleveland, might become instantly obsolete. Many experts have proposed, and NASA is now studying, having the Russians loft the station on big rockets from central Asia.
But Mr. Lyon said it would make more sense to bring Russian rockets here and fire them from adapted seaside launching pads, and to process their payloads here as well.
 
Vow to Cancel Station
 If Ross Perot becomes President and cancels the station, as he has vowed to do, since he considers it an unaffordable extravagance, the building would still undoubtedly find uses. Mr. Lyon said it was built with flexibility in mind, its high bay having mobile work stations that could be adapted to projects other than the envisioned orbiting outpost for the nation's astronaut corps.
"Even if the station went away, we wanted to be able to process payloads," Mr. Lyon said. "We didn't want a white elephant."

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (90%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); EARTH (79%); EARTH'S MOON (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (90%); HUNTSVILLE, AL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION (NASA) NEW WORLD LIBRARY (58%); NEW WORLD WINES (58%); NEW WORLD SOFTWARE (58%); NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (91%); JOHN F KENNEDY SPACE CENTER (56%); JOHN F KENNEDY SPACE CENTER (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION (NASA) NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (91%); JOHN F KENNEDY SPACE CENTER (56%); JOHN F KENNEDY SPACE CENTER (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); OHIO, USA (90%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); EARTH (79%); EARTH'S MOON (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (90%); HUNTSVILLE, AL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; FINANCES; SPACE STATIONS SPACE EXPLORATION (92%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (91%); SPACECRAFT (90%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); SPACE STATIONS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); AVIONICS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); 

PERSON: BROAD, WILLIAM J RONALD REAGAN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1992



907 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: With Cold War Over, Scientists Are Turning To 'Greener' Pastures

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. STEVENS

 BODY:
DR. WILLIAM DANNEVIK, Dr. John Ambrosiano and Dr. Mike Wehner are physicists who used to work on nuclear weapons at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in California. They have now switched their skills to the task of making better forecasts about global warming.
Dr. Henry W. Kendall, a 1990 winner of the Nobel Prize in Physics and a longtime anti-nuclear activist, has taken a leave from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology to learn more about human impact on the global environment. His goal is to galvanize the scientific community in the cause of environmental protection. 
 With the cold war over, many scientists are converting both their professional skills and their activist convictions from national security and nuclear weapons to other issues, particularly the environment. This intellectual shift is driven variously by principle, by a growing interest in the environment among younger scientists, by the hunger for new challeges and -- not least -- by the search for new sources of financial support.
The change comes at a time when the Pentagon is opening up intelligence files to scientists in search of environmental data and when the environment bids to achieve equal billing with national security and economics on the international agenda, as demonstrated by forums like the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro last June.
 
From 'Star Wars' to Global Warming
 Since just after World War II, national security has been a driving force behind American science, the main wellspring of money, the main attracter of talent in many important fields and the main lightning rod for scientists concerned about public issues.
But now, said Dr. Sidney Drell of Stanford University, "I see more young scientists who are informing themselves and working with environmental issues, and being more attracted to that and less attracted to the traditional bombs and arms-control issues."
"Being an old warhorse, I still stay with arms issues," said Dr. Drell, one of a group of arms experts who actively opposed the Reagan Administration's "Star Wars" missile-defense plan. "I would be very unhappy if I found everyone was abandoning ship," given the dangers of nuclear proliferation. "But among my colleagues, particularly the younger ones, the interest is certainly shifting."
In one sign of the times, Dr. Drell added his signature to those of more than 750 scientists who subscribed to a 1990 appeal, organized by the Union of Concerned Scientists, to prevent global warming. "I rarely sign general statements," he said, "but you can see I thought it was important."
Dr. Kendall believes that human activities "are undermining the life-support capacity of the most important global support systems we have." In line with this thinking, the Union of Concerned Scientists has sharply shifted its emphasis. Three years ago more than three-quarters of its budget went to arms control or national security issues; now about three-quarters is focused on climate change and related issues, said Howard Ris, the executive director.
 
Skepticism and Diversity
 As with nuclear arms, scientists are divided on environmental issues. Some, for example, believe that fears about global warming are overblown.
One prominent doubter is Dr. Robert Jastrow, director of the Mount Wilson Observatory in California and an outspoken promoter of the Star Wars concept in the mid-80's. His skepticism on global warming is often expressed through the George C. Marshall Institute in Washington, of which he is president, and it carried weight with the Bush Administration when John H. Sununu, formerly the President's chief of staff, controlled White House debate on the issue.
Concerns other than the environment -- health and economic competitiveness, for instance -- are also vying for the attention of scientists shifting from the cold war agenda.
Lawrence Livermore and Los Alamos, two premier national laboratories that are citadels of nuclear weaponry, have put more emphasis on a wide range of other activities as the nuclear enterprise shrinks. Both are pursuing diverse lines of research, from computer and software development to materials, lasers and sensors, from chaos theory to biomedical projects. Together with Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory, they have become major centers of research on mapping the human genetic structure. But the environment and related energy questions stand out, if only because of their prominence as public policy issues.
At Livermore, Dr. Dannevik, Dr. Ambrosiano and Dr. Wehner still write computer codes for mathematical models. Once the models simulated nuclear explosions; now they simulate the workings of the earth's climate.
As a Department of Energy installation, Livermore has been trying for some time, as Dr. Dannevik put it, "to develop a next generation of the climate simulation model" in the hope of making better policy decisions on national energy strategy. "The new ingredient," he said, "is the involvement of former weapons and code developers in the area."
The three physicists, whose ages range from 35 to 44, see their new pursuit as a natural magnet. "It's what people generally call a grand challenge," said Dr. Ambrosiano.
For Dr. Wehner, the switch has been "like going back to school -- I've had to learn very basic science that normally you'd take as an undergraduate." But he said the transition had been eased by a remarkable similarity between nuclear physics and atmospheric physics: both are complex systems that involve radiation transfer, the flow of gases and fluid dynamics, and both are approached through similar mathematical formulations.
Given the existence of nuclear weapons elsewhere in the world, those who build bombs often see them as a force for stability and peace. "I share that view," said Dr. Ambrosiano, adding that he saw both his past and present pursuits as constructive.
And Dr. Wehner said, "I certainly don't regard myself as a peace dividend or as some bomber-turned-green." Climate modeling is appealing, he went on, simply because "it's extremely interesting and it's a very current and relevant interest."
Similarly, some computer modelers at Los Alamos who used to work on weapons are now working full time on improving models of the workings of the ocean as part of the global climate system. Like Livermore, Los Alamos has diversified its efforts into a variety of fields, like clean energy use.
At the national laboratories, said Dr. Lou Rosocho, deputy leader of Los Alamos's advanced laser and systems technology group, "there was a whole culture based on the cold war."
"A lot of people sold their services to the weapons program to do interesting science," he went on. With the winding down of the cold war, the culture was left "wondering just what the hell it was going to do." Out of this identity crisis is emerging a new set of missions in the national interest, he said.
When Dr. Rosocho joined Los Alamos in 1981 with a private-industry background in developing technologies for clean air and water, he thought he could promote those technologies. "But I discovered very abruptly that no one was interested," he said. "If you had an idea about Star Wars, you got an enthusiastic reception."
So he went to work trying to help use laser beams to initiate a fusion reaction. A decade later, he works on ways of cleaning up air and water and says that "we've been making significant inroads" on that enterprise.
"I've come full circle," he said, "and the realization of the need for many of these environmental technologies is here."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some physicists who used to work on nuclear weapons at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in California are now working on problems of global warming. Standing with components of laboratory's Cray computer, they are, from left, Dr. John Ambrosiano, Dr. Mike Wehner and Dr. William Dannevik. (Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times)
 
Map/Diagram: Computer display at Lawrence Livermore of atmospheric motion about 6.2 miles up, simulating conditions in October 1982. Trajectories of imaginary air particles over a fixed period result in streak lines of wind velocity. (Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); EARTH (79%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (55%); 

COMPANY: LAWRENCE LIVERMORE NATIONAL LABORATORY MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (72%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: LAWRENCE LIVERMORE NATIONAL LABORATORY MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); EARTH (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (55%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; ATOMIC WEAPONS PHYSICS (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); COLD WAR (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (75%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (72%); BUDGETS (72%); WORLD WAR II (70%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (65%); 

PERSON: STEVENS, WILLIAM K WILLIAM DANNEVIK (71%); LAWRENCE LIVERMORE (66%); SIDNEY DRELL (66%); MIKE WEHNER (61%); JOHN AMBROSIANO (61%); HENRY W KENDALL (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1992



908 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 3; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: ON BASEBALL;
The Game Looks to Foreign Fields

BYLINE: By Claire Smith

 BODY:
A major league all-star team with representatives from the World Series champion Toronto Blue Jays and the National League champion Atlanta Braves leaves for Japan today. That is yet another sign that baseball, willingly or not, has embarked on an off season in which it will meet its future on many levels.
For the Japanese baseball powers did not even wait for the Toronto Blue Jays to win the first World Series played somewhere other than on American soil before expressing a desire to make this truly a world championship. 
 That shouldn't be considered so alien a notion. "It's something our international partnership has talked about," the deputy baseball commissioner, Steve Greenberg, said. "I'd like to think that in the next decade we'd have some sort of international play. I'm not talking about mid-summer at the Olympics, or an international World Series, but some sort of international play. I know that the Japanese professional baseball leagues would be keenly interested."
So even while baseball looks at the effect of sagging ratings and growing disenchantment among fans at home, it is gearing up for a mission many of its officials insist predated the initiatives abroad by the National Basketball Association and the National Football League.
The effort is being marshaled by the Major League Baseball International Partnership, a conglomerate of corporate and baseball interests marketing the sport abroad.
That organization, born during the commissionership of Fay Vincent, oversaw the broadcasting of the just-completed World Series to more than 70 nations around the world, in eight different languages. It is, baseball spokesmen vow, only the beginning. The next Series will be translated for the first time ever into Mandarin, another symbolic indication that even China's great walls can be crossed by baseballs carried on satellite beams.
It is just another indication that baseball, America's grand old game, is caught in the jet stream of change. And the World Series played partly on soil outside the United States was not the first indication, any more than it will be the last.
Earlier this summer, major league owners were dragged kicking and sometimes screaming into the realities of the day when they reversed field and allowed interests other than those born in North America to purchase part of a major league franchise. And Greenberg has talked of the possibility of sending a kind of kiddie Dream Team to the Olympics, perhaps as soon as 1996 in Atlanta, as baseball contemplates seeking permission for its top minor league prospects to participate.
The move onto the international stage would be fitting considering the sport has for years benefited from a sort of baseball brain drain, culling talents from Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean and South and Central America. The Blue Jays, a Canadian team, had a roster dotted with players from the Dominican Republic and Jamaica as well as Americans from Oklahoma, Minnesota, Puerto Rico and the like.
In fact, the only common citizenship major league players have any longer is that they belong to the Major League Baseball Players Association, a nation, rich and successful, unto itself. And it is that nation-empire that baseball will concentrate on first, before visions of international series, or Olympic participation occupy the minds of baseball's powers. Or so baseball's lords will insist now that the first season, played on the field, has given away to a second and more intricate one that will be played in board rooms.
Putting championships back together will be easy compared to the work ahead.
Major league owners, faced with putting their house in order in wake of a summer of discontent and rebellion, know they must either make peace with their player-millionaires or break the union they so often target but fail to hit.
Management officials must also redefine the very nature of the game's government in the wake of Vincent's forced resignation almost two months ago. The new world vision of a commissionership, of central baseball, of the owners' role in issues, has yet to be revealed. Hints at realignments, new tiers of playoffs, a move toward cable television and away from over-the-air broadcasts are also ideas that have been voiced, but not implemented.
Also, until vision is restored to the game, all talk of signals being beamed to China, Taiwan or Brazil begs the issue of importance if the game is still at a loss to explain if anyone is willing to pay the tab for those radio and television signals from the United States.
Owners, adept at giving dismal forecasts, insist there won't be networks lining up to do so. ESPN has already pulled out of its commitment, deciding not to exercise a $250 million cable contract option covering 1994-95. The golden goose, which laid a $1.499 billion four-year television-rights egg on baseball in 1990, will be gone by 1993, chased off by the recession and poor ratings. Or so the owners insist.
So players brace, wondering how the dire premonitions will affect their future, as free agents plan to hit a market they are hearing no longer exists. Owners of small-market teams wonder how devastating a winter it will be if big-market clubs boost the market once more with $6 million and $7 million player contracts.
It is a fluid time. Just how much so, to what end and within what boundaries no one will know for quite some time.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); JAPAN (92%); MEXICO (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (72%); CENTRAL AMERICA (57%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); 

COMPANY: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL INTERNATIONAL PARTNERSHIP; ATLANTA BRAVES; TORONTO BLUE JAYS NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PROPERTIES INC (58%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (93%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (93%); ATLANTA BRAVES (91%); ATLANTA BRAVES (91%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (82%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (82%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (55%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (55%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (55%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL INTERNATIONAL PARTNERSHIP; ATLANTA BRAVES; TORONTO BLUE JAYS TORONTO BLUE JAYS (93%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (93%); ATLANTA BRAVES (91%); ATLANTA BRAVES (91%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (82%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (82%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (55%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (55%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (55%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); JAPAN (92%); MEXICO (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (72%); CENTRAL AMERICA (57%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; WORLD SERIES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION BASEBALL (98%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); OLYMPICS (89%); BASKETBALL (73%); SPORTS MARKETING (73%); 

PERSON: SMITH, CLAIRE FAY VINCENT (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1992



909 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Shake-Up at G.M.
Robert C. Stempel resigned as G.M.'s chairman and chief executive amid speculation of his imminent dismissal and a failure by the board of the world's largest manufacturer to give him a public vote of confidence. [Page A1.]
No matter who replaces Mr. Stempel, the chairman is locked into a corporate strategy even before he takes command -- namely, stopping the financial bleeding. News Analysis. [D6.] 
 In the end, the "car guy" never got a chance to show what he could do at G.M. [D6.]
Can the director behind G.M.'s management rupture make the leap from selling soap to selling cars? [D7.] G.M.'s president has kept a low profile, but he now appears to be a top candidate to become chief executive. [D7.]
Few stocks have been worse lemons in the last 10 years than G.M. Kurt Eichenwald: Market Place. [D1.]
 
Companies
American Express lost $205 million in the third quarter because of expenses associated with its efforts to cut costs in its charge card and travel businesses. [D1.]
Nationsbank and Dean Witter plan to form a new securities company. [D1.]
Mazda sharply scaled back its efforts to enter the luxury automobile market. [D1.]
The stock of U.S. Healthcare fell $6.375, to $43.375, even though the H.M.O.'s earnings increased almost 22 percent. [D4.]
Proctor & Gamble's net income slipped 19.6 percent, but its operating earnings rose 18 percent. [D4.]
Boeing's earnings fell 9 percent, as jet deliveries lagged. [D4.]
ARCO, Phillips and Unocal reported stronger earnings in the third quarter, partly because of higher natural gas prices. [D4.]
The Mirror Group has named a new chief executive. [D5.]
Florida utility regulators are allowing a newspaper to offer a special "511" telephone service for readers. [D5.]
Mortimer B. Zuckerman's purchase of The Daily News has been cleared by a Federal bankruptcy judge. [B1.]
Lilco is entitled to a $700 million refund on property taxes it paid for the ill-fated Shoreham nuclear power plant. [B6.]
 
The Economy
The White House and banking regulators denied that they had postponed closing ailing banks until after the election. [D2.]
Lawyers for Clark M. Clifford asked a New York judge to dismiss felony charges against him in the B.C.C.I scandal. [D8.]
A trade consultant identified himself as the mysterious Democrat blamed by Republicans for the failure of trade talks. [D10.]
 
Markets
The financier George Soros made a profit of almost $1 billion by betting heavily that the British pound would collapse. [D9.]
Shearson Lehman is recommending Computervision at $5 a share after helping take the company public at $12. [D5.]
Stocks posted solid gains. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 36.47 points to end at 3,244.11. [D10.]
Bond prices drifted lower and yields rose as investors seemed to test how far the market could fall ahead of the election. [D19.]
Copper futures rallied, bouncing back from Friday's selloff. [D20.] The dollar edged higher against most currencies. [D20.]
 
Today's Columns
Health insurers and H.M.O.'s are jumping into the rapidly growing worker's compensation market. Milt Freudenheim: Business and Health. [D2.]
The New Yorker discontinued running ads that carry fragrance strips. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D23.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (55%); BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%); PGP (PAR) (54%); PG (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (54%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (55%); BOEING CO (54%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BANK FAILURES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (75%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); AIRCRAFT MFG (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (69%); ENERGY REGULATION (68%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (68%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (67%); NATURAL GAS (67%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); FELONIES (66%); JUDGES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (63%); POWER PLANTS (63%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (63%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (62%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (62%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (61%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (50%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1992



910 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Business and Health;
New Ways to Help Injured Workers

BYLINE: By Milt Freudenheim

 BODY:
HEALTH insurers and health maintenance organizations are jumping into the rapidly growing worker's compensation market, angling for a share of the $70 billion a year that employers spend to cover job-related injuries and illnesses. The insurers offer networks of physicians who typically accept preset fees and abide by rules that encourage workers to return to work as soon as possible.
The growing interest in managing worker's compensation follows a surge in medical expenditures, which now are 50 percent of worker's compensation costs, up from 20 percent in the 1970's. The other big cost is injury-related loss of earnings or impaired ability to work. According to some experts, worker's compensation costs will soar to $120 billion by 1995. 
 Worker's compensation insurers say their costs have also been swelled by claims for off-the-job injuries as employers have cut back on general health benefits. And they suggest that workers in some recession-buffeted industries may even become accident prone on the eve of losing their jobs, in a desperate reach for a substitute for wages.
A survey of 716 employers by the Towers Perrin consulting and actuarial firm found that 63 percent would prefer to combine worker's compensation with conventional health benefits in 24-hour coverage, on and off the job.
Even so, Jerry Miccolis, a Towers Perrin vice president, said most employers have been slow to act. They see worker's compensation as a legal obligation, which must be kept in check by safety programs. Health care, by contrast, is seen as a benefit voluntarily provided to employees. Also, injured workers cannot be forced to choose a doctor from a network of physicians in most states. Only about 20 states allow employers to control the choice of physicians to treat work-related cases.
But cost pressures are sweeping away the barriers. Roanoke County, Va., for example, buys 24-hour coverage for 2,000 school and county employees from Consolidated Risk Management Services, a for-profit unit of Virginia Blue Cross and Blue Shield. "We eliminate duplication of payments," said Bob Jernigan, Roanoke's risk manager. He added that doctors used to charge 25 percent more for an office visit in worker's compensation cases. Eliminating such extra charges saved the county $12,000 last year, he said.
"If you have a serious injury," he added, "Blue Cross provides a medical management team." They check on patients before authorizing admission to hospitals and make sure their treatment is appropriate, he said. "With worker's compensation, you normally don't get that."
California recently authorized a three-year experiment to encourage health maintenance organizations to provide doctors for job-related injuries. The measure was sponsored by Kaiser Permanente, the country's largest H.M.O. Kaiser already offers worker's compensation coverage in Oregon.
Eleven Blue Cross and Blue Shield associations across the country also have networks of worker's compensation physicians; 30 more Blue Cross plans are seriously considering the field.
The Liberty Mutual Insurance Company, the largest worker's compensation insurer, and Kaiser are also jointly marketing some general health-care products, with an eye to possibly combining forces in worker's compensation as well.
On its own, Liberty Mutual offers worker's compensation physician networks in 35 states. And the FHP International Corporation, an investor-owned H.M.O. based in Fountain Valley, Calif., is providing worker's compensation for 60 employers.
Many insurers also provide consultants to help employers avert expensive accidents in the first place. Robert Randell, a consultant with the Travelers Corporation's cost reduction unit, tries to get employers involved in dealing with workplace injuries. "They can personally deliver the injured person to the doctor," he said. "They can maintain active contact with injured employees to get them back to work."
Working with Mr. Randell, Larry Teafatiller, general manager of a Target Stores distribution center in Southern California, is ordering new machines to assist loading operations, to cut down on manual lifting that is blamed for back injuries.
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, which has been on guard against injuries since the company's founders began making gunpowder in the early 19th century, insists that "all injuries can be prevented," said Dr. Bruce W. Karrh, the chemical company's vice president of integrated health care. Du Pont said its rate of injuries per hours worked is only 2 percent of the rate for all American industries. As a result, Dr. Karrh said that Du Pont averages less than $4 million a year in worker's compensation expenses. Some large employers spend hundreds of millions.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS AND HEALTH (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (84%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ROANOKE, VA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: KAISER PERMANENTE (84%); ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (81%); RISK MANAGEMENT SERVICES LLC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ROANOKE, VA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION INSURANCE; HEALTH INSURANCE; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS WORKERS COMPENSATION (94%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (92%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (91%); INSURANCE (90%); WORKERS COMPENSATION BENEFITS (90%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (90%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WORKERS COMPENSATION COSTS (90%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); HEALTH CARE (77%); DISMISSALS (73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); COUNTIES (62%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT ROBERT RANDELL (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1992



911 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Administration Denies Delaying Bank Action

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 26

 BODY:
The Bush Administration and banking regulators today denied charges that they had postponed closing ailing banks so as to push bad economic news until after Election Day.
At an unusual Congressional hearing just eight days before the polls open, the officials also defended their predictions that about 100 banks will be closed next year and criticized a recent study suggesting that up to 1,000 institutions would need to be closed in the coming years. 
 Senator Donald W. Riegle Jr. of Michigan, chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, convened the hearing after some Democrats and the independent Presidential candidate Ross Perot warned of a "December surprise."
 
 
New Law
 They have said there may be widespread bank closings when a new Federal banking law, takes effect Dec. 19. It will require regulators to intervene at ailing banks with very low ratios of equity of assets -- either by closing them or taking other corrective action.
But waiting until then not only hides the bad news from the voters, the critics maintain, but it may also worsen the problem as the ailing banks continue to pile up losses and increase the ultimate costs to the taxpayer.
Mr. Riegle portrayed today's event as a factual review of the banking industry's health. "Some say that the industry is healing itself -- others say that it's on the brink of a major crisis," Mr. Riegle said.
Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady suggested the hearing was politically motivated, and criticized the Senator for holding the hearing after Congress had adjourned. "He has had countless opportunities to provide genuine reform instead of holding a vacuous hearing the week prior to a Presidential election," Mr. Brady said in a statement distributed by a Treasury official to reporters and lobbyists at the hearing.
No Republican senators showed up for the hearing, nor did any of Mr. Riegle's Democratic colleagues.
In October of last year, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation predicted that bank closings this year would cover institutions with $80 billion in assets. But so far this year, institutions with only $29 billion in assets have been closed.
Andrew C. Hove Jr., the acting chairman of the F.D.I.C., said his agency was being unfairly penalized for its candor in issuing an estimate a year ago. "Our grim projections of last year have not been realized, but the casualty list is still extremely high," Mr. Hove added.
Mr. Hove said that low interest rates had helped many banks, and that further failures by the end of December would increase the total value of assets in closed institutions to $40 billion this year.
Federal regulators have been very sensitive about suggestions that they have delayed or underestimated the cost of helping insolvent banks because the opening stages of the savings and loan crisis were marked by delays and underestimates.
Mr. Hove said that the Dec. 19 law would accelerate the closing of some institutions but would not cause a significant increase in the overall number of closings.
John P. LaWare, a governor of the Federal Reserve Board, and Stephen R. Steinbrink, who is the acting Comptroller of the Currency and is a Treasury official, also defended the Government's handling of ailing banks.
But Mr. LaWare did warn that banks were issuing many home equity loans that might not be repaid because of high unemployment. That may also weaken real estate markets, creating inadequate collateral for mortgages and the home equity loans, he said.
Mr. Reigle has been trying to stake out a strong position on financial regulation since his reputation was damaged by a Senate Ethics Committee rebuke for intervening with regulators on behalf of Charles H. Keating Jr., whose savings and loan subsequently collapsed at enormous cost to taxpayers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (81%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (81%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; UNITED STATES ECONOMY BANKING & FINANCE (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (89%); BANKING LAW (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LOBBYING (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (61%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) ANDREW C HOVE JR (83%); DONALD W RIEGLE JR (81%); JOHN P LAWARE (57%); NICHOLAS F BRADY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1992



912 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: SHAKE-UP AT G.M.: The Economy's Seat on the Board;
Any G.M. Strategy Will Be Dictated by the Weak U.S. Market

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
No matter who takes over at General Motors as Robert C. Stempel's replacement, or how good he is, the new chairman will be locked into a corporate strategy even before he takes command -- a strategy dictated by the nation's weak economy.
Simply stated, G.M. waited too long for ballooning sales to save the day. Americans are buying cars and trucks at an annual rate of barely 13 million a year, far from the 15 million in the late 1980's had created enough demand to mask G.M.'s numerous inefficiencies. And sales are likely to remain weak for months to come. 
 The alternative turnaround strategy would have been to rapidly develop new models popular enough to win away customers in the important middle market -- now dominated by the Ford Taurus and the Honda Accord.
But developing new models takes time, and this at the moment is out of stock. "There is no longer enough time for General Motors to turn its situation around without layoffs and downsizing," said Robert L. Crandall, a senior fellow and auto industry expert at the Brookings Institution.
 
 
A Leaner Company
 All that's really left as an immediate strategy, then, is to cut costs, to create a leaner, smaller company.
New-model cars or a smaller company -- or a combination of the two -- are, of course, strategic alternatives open to any new management team. "The two are inextricably intertwined and should be carried out together," David Healy, an auto analyst at S. G. Warburg & Company, said.
But since Mr. Stempel failed to make headway on either count after he became chairman in 1990, downsizing has now become inevitable.
"The priority is to stop the financial bleeding," said Harley Shaiken, a labor economist and auto industry expert at the University of California at San Diego. "The second task is to rebuild the corporation. The problem is that measures that stop the financial bleeding, like confrontations with the United Auto Workers over layoffs, could also destroy the corporation."
G.M. will probably have to lay off 85,000 blue and white collar workers, or 23 percent of its 370,000 employees in North America, and shut four more of its 40 assembly plants, along with 15 or more parts operations, Mr. Healy estimated. Mr. Stempel's failure to move quickly toward these goals was decisive in bringing about his resignation.
The odds are that John G. Smale, a former chairman of Procter & Gamble and the G.M. director who led the revolt against Mr. Stempel, is likely to be the first to undertake this task, replacing Mr. Stempel as chairman for two years or so, analysts say. But given his background at Procter & Gamble, a consumer products company, he would probably be better at the less pressing goal at G.M. -- stirring consumer interest in new auto models.
John F. Smith Jr., who became G.M. president after turning around the company's troubled European operations, seems likely to become the chief executive under Mr. Smale -- bringing to the task the necessary experience at cutting costs and introducing other efficiencies. William E. Hoglund, G.M.'s chief financial officer, is another candidate for a top slot, particularly if Mr. Smale's tenure is brief.
Rarely has an outsider moved into the top slot at an American auto manufacturing company, following the example of Stanley Gault, who retired as chairman of Rubbermaid Inc. and then became chairman of Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, where he engineered a turnaround.
"There is a line of thought that says it is very hard for an insider at G.M. to affect change because he has too many loyalties and is himself a captive of the company's traditions and bureaucracy," Malcolm Salter, a Harvard Business School professor and auto industry specialist, said. "But G.M. has tried to bring in outsiders as top executives in recent years, and they have failed. And to some extent, Jack Smith plays the role of an outsider, arriving from Europe, bent on efficiency and standing apart from the people in Detroit."
 
 
Ross Perot's Charges
 Among the outsiders, Ross Perot became G.M.'s largest shareholder after selling his company, Electronic Data Systems, to G.M. But his attacks on G.M.'s inefficiencies in the mid 1980's failed to win support for change among G.M.'s board members and Mr. Perot finally sold back his shares to G.M. and resigned as a director. "G.M. has failed to tap the resources of its people," Mr. Perot charged at the time.
Whoever the next leader, the obstacles at G.M. are enormous. Cutting costs appears to be a short-term necessity, unless a revival of the national economy provides some relief, but cost-cutting alone won't return even a smaller G.M. to prosperity. What's more, playing off one plant against another, keeping open the plants whose workers grant the most concessions, is likely to result in morale-sapping frictions with the United Auto Workers.
"The root cause of the problem is lack of product," said Donald F. Ephlin, now retired after years as vice president of the United Auto Workers in charge of negotiations with G.M. "They have done a good job with Cadillac, but their mid-sized products are their bread and butter. And the Pontiac Grand Prix, the Chevrolet Lumina and the Oldsmobile Cutlass are failing. General Motors is paying a penalty for failing to compete hard with other companies more used to scratching for a living."
Without the efficiencies that come from greater sales volume -- in effect, more cars produced for each worker -- the company's average costs, according to one recent study, are $795 a car greater than those of Ford and Chrysler, which went through modernization programs a decade ago, reducing their labor forces and reorganizing production so that factory floor workers took on more responsibility for quality and efficiency.
Now G.M. must carry out that task at a moment when the world marketplace is flooded with auto production capacity. "There are more new entrants than exits in the auto business," Mr. Salter said. "The Koreans, the Indonesians and others enter, and no one seems to go out of business."
In the United States alone, new Japanese-owned auto factories have added nearly two million vehicles to the nation's capacity to manufacture cars over the last decade.
Perhaps the greatest burden is G.M.'s size. Even after downsizing, it is likely to remain the world's largest auto and truck maker, along with Toyota in Japan.
"G.M. for decades led the industry, not only because it was big, but because it defined the trends," Mr. Shaiken said. "If you are defining trends and setting the pace for new models, your size and production volume give you the advantage in the marketplace. But in the 1980's, first the Japanese and then Ford with the Taurus, took over the leadership in trends, and G.M.'s size became an albatross. When someone else sets the trend, you have to switch to get back into step, and size made switching difficult for G.M."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Who Will Take Over G.M.'s Executive Suite?
 
This list of probable candidates for the chairmanship of General Motors is short, but grows when Detroit insiders are invited to use their imagination. Here are some of the names being named.
 
BEST-BET INSIDERS
 
John G. Smale
 
Former Procter & Gamble chairman, and veteran G.M. board member who leads its executive comittee. Possesses the sales and marketing skills that G.M. needs badly. Would likely take on the job for a limited tour, two to three years.
 
John F. (Jack) Smith Jr.
 
G.M. president and 31-year G.M. veteran. Action-oriented executive who boasts a strong resume with successes abroad, and the man now responsible for trying to turn around G.M.'s troubled North American operations.
 
WILLIAM E. Hoglund
 
G.M.'s chief financial officer and former president of the innovative Saturn division in Spring Hill, Tenn. His diverse background and personable manner make him a respected and popular eecutive in both the engineering and finance ranks.
 
LONG-SHOT OUTSIDERS
 
Roger Penske
 
The former racing car driver has a lot of admirers in the automotive community. His "magic touch" as one industry insider called it, has made successes of troubled companies such as Detroit Diesel.
 
Stanley C. Gault
 
Was lured out of retirement to turn around the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company. He knows manufacturing and the automobile industry.
 
John F. Welch Jr.
 
In the 1980'a, the chairman ofGeneral Electric eliminated 100,000 jobs in pursuit of a brighter bottom line, leading G.E. insiders to dub him Neutron Jack. More recently he has preached worker empowerment.
 
VERY WILD CARDS
 
Lee A. Iacocca
 
If G.M. needs marketing expertise, the retireing Chrysler chairman and corporate America's top pitchman may be just what G.M.j islooking for. It would complete a grand slam by Mr. Iacocca, who has also worked at Ford.
 
Robert J. Eaton
 
In line to succeeed Iacocca; may relish an even bigger challenge. Once head of G.M. Europe; many G.M. insiders were disappointed that G.M. did not keep hime from jumping to Chrysler. But in Detroit, at these levels, the door generally swings only once between auto makers.
 
Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf
 
After a tour to promote his autobiography, "It Doesn't Take a Hero," Mr. Schwarzkopf may be ready for another project, like bringing some tough discipline to help execute General Motors strategy. Detroit Storm?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); PGP (PAR) (51%); PG (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (51%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP S G WARBURG & CO LTD (66%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (51%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS COMPANY STRATEGY (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); DISMISSALS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; STEMPEL, ROBERT C JACK WELCH (68%); ROGER S PENSKE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1992



913 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 281 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Boeing Profit Down 9% as Orders Slide

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER

 BODY:
The Boeing Company reported yesterday that its earnings had fallen 9 percent in the third quarter, primarily because of a decrease in commercial jet deliveries.
Net income for the Seattle-based aerospace company totaled $364 million, or $1.07 a share, down from $401 million, or $1.17 a share, a year earlier. Sales fell 10 percent, to $6.90 billion, from $7.66 billion in the third quarter of 1991. Boeing projected that its total sales for 1992 would be in the $30 billion range. 
 Boeing's earnings were at the low end of analysts' estimates, and the company's shares fell $1 yesterday, to close at $35.75 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Frank Shrontz, Boeing's chairman and chief executive, said in a statement that the weak global economy was continuing to depress parts of the airline industry. As a result, some airlines have asked to delay aircraft orders and options. But some of the deferred deliveries have been offset by new orders and requests by other customers to accelerate deliveries, Mr. Shrontz said.
"The trend remains a downward tilt," said Howard A. Rubel, an analyst with C. J. Lawrence, a securities concern. He said business cycles in the aircraft industry were too long "to expect big changes overnight." Mr. Rubel noted that while Boeing's operating profit margins were off a little because of the lower volume of production, it had been able to offset that by continuing to reduce costs.
Announced commercial orders during the third quarter totaled 47 aircraft, valued at $2.1 billion, including a Southwest Airlines order for 34 737's. The figures represent a decrease from 62 aircraft, valued at $4.9 billion, in last year's third quarter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (98%); BAB (BRU) (98%); BA (NYSE) (98%); LUV (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (98%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO BOEING CO (98%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TRENDS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (54%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M FRANK A SHRONTZ (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1992



914 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 53 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Loss for W. R. Grace

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: BOCA RATON, Fla., Oct. 26

 BODY:
W. R. Grace & Company said today that it lost $82.1 million in the third quarter, citing weak world economies, particularly in Europe. The company, which produces chemicals, textiles, cocoa products and distributes books, videocassettes and software, earned $49.6 million in the corresponding period a year ago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GRA (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC2819 INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (96%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: GRACE, W R, & CO W R GRACE & CO (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: GRACE, W R, & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (75%); FLORIDA, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1992



915 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Dow Surges 36.47 Points On Earnings Reports

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks posted solid gains yesterday as upbeat corporate earnings captured the market's attention despite investors' caution ahead of the Nov. 3 Presidential election.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 36.47 points to end at 3,244.11. Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was moderate at 188.1 million shares, compared with 199.1 million on Friday. Advancing issues led those declining by 1,087 to 709. 
 The market was also bolstered by gains in some leadership stocks like Philip Morris, Merck and Procter & Gamble.
"Maybe there's a bit of relief that this earnings period wasn't a horror show," a trader said.
The Dow transportation index, continuing a spate of recent gains, shot up 23.17 points, to 1,356.34. The index is considered a barometer of the economy, and analysts said its performance has been a prop for the overall market.
"The transports have been acting very well," said Ron Doran, director of institutional trading at C. L. King.
Still, uncertainty about the election continued to dog the market.
"There seems to be a little bit of feeling this may turn out to be a horse race," Mr. Doran said. Over the last few weeks, investors have seemed to be betting on a victory by Gov. Bill Clinton, the Democrat of Arkansas who still holds a lead in opinion polls over President Bush and Ross Perot. But some of the latest polls show Mr. Clinton's lead narrowing.
The Nasdaq index trailed the Dow, gaining 1.62 points, to 598.92. Secondary issues had been outperforming the blue-chip stocks in the last week as investors searched for higher- growth companies.
"Today is more of a Dow market," said Marshall Acuff, a portfolio strategist at Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Company. "You've got buyers under the market, and when they see it doesn't fade, they are in there."
John Blair at County NatWest said some buying by program traders contributed to the gains.
"I think anybody that wanted to make a big bet on the election probably has made it, and people are a little bit anxious about what Perot means," he said, referring to Ross Perot's recent gains in the polls.
Procter & Gamble was among the bigger blue-chips reporting unexpectedly strong operating earnings, although the consumer-products giant's net income was down because of a $200 million charge. P.&G.'s shares gained 2 1/2, to 53 1/2.
General Motors added 5/8, to 34 1/8, and the issue was the most active on the Big Board. Philip Morris rose 1 1/8, to 75 5/8, and Merck gained 1 7/8, to 43.
British Steel slipped 1 5/8, to 8 3/4. The stock was the biggest percentage loser on the Big Board, with a 15.6 percent drop. The company said it would cut production in line with a further fall in demand.
Shares of U.S. Healthcare slumped 6 3/8, to 43 3/8. While its third-quarter profits were within expectations, analysts said results showed higher expenses and lower margins.
Other health-care companies that lost ground included Foundation Health, down 2 5/8, to 39 1/4; United Health, off 2 3/4, to 50 7/8, and Pacificare, off 2, to 42 1/4.
Among the stocks in the Dow transportation average, Federal Express was up 2 1/8, to 45; AMR gained 1 5/8, to 64 3/8, Consolidated Rail was up 1 3/8, 43 1/8, and Norfolk Southern was up 1 3/4, to 62.
The Standard & Poor's composite index of 500 stocks rose 4.07, to 418.17. The American Stock Exchange market-value index gained 1.92, to 376.16.
The New York Stock Exchange's composite index of all listed common stocks rose 1.95, to 229.78. The average share gained 28 cents.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (57%); PG (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (65%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (57%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO INC (65%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1992



916 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 374 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Florida Paper Tests Service: Information by '511' Number

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
In a potentially significant action, utility regulators in Florida are letting a newspaper use an easy-to-remember "511" telephone number so its readers can call for faxes and other information about news and sports reports and advertisements.
The Florida Public Service Commission voted last week to let The Palm Beach Post, part of the Cox Newspaper chain in Atlanta, offer the service temporarily in West Palm Beach. The commission typically allows such experiments for two years but can withdraw permission at any time, especially if the Federal Communications Commission makes a conflicting ruling. 
 If the decision is made final and spreads to other states, "511" service would give the newspaper industry a valuable marketing tool. For example, readers could dial a newspaper's "511" number and get the fax of the transcript of a Presidential debate, late-breaking scores or the nearest location of a department store.
 
Easier to Remember
 Three-digit numbers, like 411 for directory assistance, are more valuable to companies than similar "976" and "900" seven-digit numbers because they are easier to remember. Moreover, callers are billed through the monthly local telephone bill, rather than separate bills.
In addition, "511" numbers are free from the taint in the public mind of association with the steep charges and unsavory reputation of the sexually explicit "970" and "976" adult phone lines. The fee for "511" numbers would also typically be a flat fee of 50 cents or less a call, instead of $1 or more a minute.
"This decision," said James T. McKnight, vice president-telecommunications for Cox Newspapers, "gives newspapers a chance to compete with the telephone business on a more equal footing."
Newspapers have been locked in an increasingly bitter battle with the telephone industry over electronic information services. They fear that phone companies may offer audio and video services, including help-wanted notices and real estate placements, that may prove to be more attractive than classified ads.
Classifieds are especially important to newspapers because the recession has hurt display advertising, which usually is taken out by department stores and other troubled retailing industries.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: FLORIDA PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION; PALM BEACH POST (NEWSPAPER) PALM BEACH HOTEL (71%); FLORIDA PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (93%); FLORIDA PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (84%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION; PALM BEACH POST (NEWSPAPER) FLORIDA PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (93%); FLORIDA PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (84%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; TELEPHONES PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); RETAILERS (89%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (89%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (78%); TELEPHONE RATES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); TRANSCRIPTS (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (68%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1992



917 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Profit Down but Sales Up at P.& G.

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
The Procter & Gamble Company, the maker of Ivory Soap and Tide detergent, said yesterday that its net income had fallen 19.6 percent in its fiscal first quarter, which ended Sept. 30, as a result of an extraordinary charge, but that revenue had risen 9.3 percent.
The consumer products giant said it had earned $431 million, or 60 cents a share, down from $536 million, or 76 cents a share, a year earlier. 
 But P.& G. said the drop in earnings stemmed from a decision last month to set aside a reserve of $200 million to cover the cost of winding down its Citrus Hill orange juice business. Excluding the charge, it said, third-quarter earnings would have jumped 18 percent, to $631 million.
 
Revenue Sets a Record
 The Cincinnati-based company said its revenue had risen to a record $7.88 billion, from $7.21 billion a year earlier. The chairman, Edwin L. Artzt, characterized the earnings as "a good start to the new fiscal year."
The company cited rising international sales, lower costs and higher profit margins in the United States and favorable exchange rates for the strong earnings report.
Wall Street analysts and stock market investors were more interested in the company's operating performance than in the one-time charge, and applauded Procter & Gamble's results.
The company's shares gained $2.50 yesterday, to close at $53.50, in heavy trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
"Sales were a little lower than expected, but the surprise was in P.& G.'s operating margins, which were up in the United States even though unit sales were down," said Alice Beebe Longley, a vice president in equity research at Donaldson Lufkin Jenrette. "This is evidence of ongoing improvement in profitability due to cost cutting."
Andrew Shore, a first vice president at Paine Webber Inc., said the report was "good news and bad news."
"The good news is that the company's pricing policy is looking like it is driving down costs," Mr. Shore said. "The bad news is that unit sales in the United States were weaker than expected. But the company is clearly setting the stage for substantial earnings leverage when volume begins to improve."
To lessen its dependence on turns in the American economy, Procter & Gamble has expanded aggressively overseas during the last several years, buying up competitors and pushing its own product lines. The effort is paying off.
In the quarter, international sales rose by 9 percent, excluding acquisitions, while domestic sales dipped by 6 percent.
During its 1993 fiscal year, international sales are likely to exceed domestic revenue, said Deepak Raj, an analyst at Merrill Lynch & Company.
"Last year domestic sales represented about 52 percent of the total," Mr. Raj said. "We estimate that in the current fiscal year international sales will be $17 billion versus $15 billion in the United States."
In large part, expanding sales in Europe, the Far East and Latin America represent a doubling of foreign investment over the last three years, Mr. Raj said, to the point where international assets now total more than $10 billion.
"Despite that investment spending, they have been able to hold international profit margins and grow unit volume sales very aggressively," he said. "P.& G. sells high-quality products, and the world is trading up."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (97%); PG (NYSE) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (97%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (97%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (97%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (56%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (97%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (56%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS MFG (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); EQUITY RESEARCH (71%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (70%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (69%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (69%); EXCHANGE RATES (66%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N EDWIN L ARTZT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1992



918 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Makes Some Gains, Especially Against Pound

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar edged higher yesterday against most major currencies, led by a gain of nearly 4 cents against the British pound.
Dollar dealers said that the currency remained within a fairly narrow range in domestic trading and that activity was relatively subdued. 
 Its biggest move was against the British pound, which fell to $1.5852 in New York from $1.6225 late Friday. In London, sterling dropped to $1.5855 from $1.6165 late Friday.
Dealers in London cited fears that there could be another national election if Prime Minister John Major failed to persuade Parliament to ratify a European union treaty. Mr. Major's office has refused to confirm or deny British news reports that he will quit and call an election if he loses a vote on Nov. 4 at the start of a new debate on the treaty.
Walter Simon, vice president of foreign exchange at the New York office of Bank Julius Baer, said dollar traders expected interest rates to fall in Britain, a development that would discourage foreign investment in the pound.
He said there had been speculation that the steel industry might lay off workers in Britain, just as the Government-owned coal company there is doing.
"If all these people are coming out of work, that is not a place where people are interested in being," Mr. Simon said.
Overall, Mr. Simon said, traders in the United States generally tested the upper and lower ranges that the dollar set in overseas dealings.
"It was a technical trading day," he said.
Earlier in Tokyo, the dollar rose to 121.62 Japanese yen from 121.20 yen at Friday's close. In London, the dollar was quoted at 121.97 yen. The dollar finished at 121.85 yen in New York, up from 121.60 yen late Friday.
Dollar rates as of 4 P.M. in New York compared with late rates Friday included: 1.5305 German marks, up from 1.5275; 1.3645 Swiss francs, up from 1.3630; 5.1900 French francs, up from 5.1800; 1,320.5 Italian lire, down from 1,340.5, and 1.24375 Canadian dollars, down from 1.24675.
Late dollar rates in Europe, compared with late rates Friday, included: 1.5390 German marks, up from 1.5305; 1.3680 Swiss francs, up from 1.3635.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK JULIUS BAR & CO AG (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES CURRENCIES (93%); BRITISH POUND (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); GERMAN MARK (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); 

PERSON: WALTER SIMON (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1992



919 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 252 words

HEADLINE: Resales Off For Homes

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 26

 BODY:
Sales of existing homes in September edged lower from August levels, the National Association of Realtors said today, though the selling rate was up 5.1 percent from September 1991.
The trade group said sales last month were at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 3.28 million, up from 3.12 million units a year ago, but almost 1 percent below August's revised rate of 3.31 million units. 
 Interest rates for 30-year conventional fixed-rated mortgages averaged 7.92 percent last month, the lowest monthly average since June 1973. In September 1991, the rate was 9.01 percent.
The national median price for an existing home in September was $103,200, a 2.9 percent increase over the September 1991 price of $100,300, the real estate group said.
The Northeast showed the biggest increase. The region's seasonally adjusted sales rate was 530,000 units, up 1.9 percent from August's 520,000. The median price for a single-family home in the region was $137,000, down five-tenths of 1 percent from September 1991.
The South also showed a gain, posting a rate of 1.21 million units, up eight-tenths of 1 percent from the previous month's 1.2 million. The median price was unchanged at $91,700.
The biggest regional decrease was in the West, where the rate dropped 5.6 percent from August's 710,000, to 670,000 units. But the median price edged up to $145,200 from $144,200 a year earlier.
The sales rate also slipped in the Midwest to 870,000 units, down 1.1 percent from 880,000 in August.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (65%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (58%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); MIDWEST USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES; PRICES REAL ESTATE (91%); EXISTING HOME SALES (91%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1992



920 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Copper Prices Show Gains On Reports of Asian Buying

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Copper futures rallied yesterday on the Commodity Exchange in New York, making a comeback from Friday's selloff on news of Asian buying overnight.
On other markets, grains and soybeans were lower, energy products mostly rose and livestock and pork were mostly higher. 
 Copper futures recovered all of Friday's losses, which occurred on news of rising Comex and London Metal Exchange warehouse stocks. The market gained strength on news that China has entered the market, said Bernard Savaiko, an analyst at PaineWebber Inc.
Mr. Savaiko said that although the world economy was weak, the demand for copper was holding up well. He said China's entry into the market could signal added strength.
Copper for delivery in November settled 1 cent higher at 99.55 cents a pound.
 
Pressure on Grains and Soybeans
 Grain and soybean futures were lower in quiet trading on the Chicago Board of Trade, with corn futures hitting new contract lows as the pace of the Midwest corn harvest picks up.
Soybean futures were mostly lower, with the market reacting to the dry, warm weekend, which aided harvesting. Also hurting soybeans was the lack of a resolution to the American-European soybean subsidy dispute, analysts said.
Wheat futures felt pressure as the market showed disappointment over the Agriculture Department's failure to reach agreement over the purchase of 500,000 metric tons of soft red winter wheat by Russia.
December wheat settled 1 1/2 cents lower at $3.44 1/4 a bushel; December corn was 1 1/4 cents lower at $2.05 1/2 a bushel; December oats were 2 1/4 cents lower at $1.32 3/4 a bushel and November soybeans were 2 1/2 cents lower at $5.41 3/4 a bushel.
Energy futures settled mostly higher in quiet trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. December light crude oil was 8 cents higher at $21.27 cents a barrel; November heating oil was 0.05 cent higher at 61.85 cents a gallon; November unleaded gasoline was 0.41 cent higher at 59.30 cents a gallon; December natural gas was 7 cents lower at $2.277 per 1,000 cubic feet.
Cattle futures were higher and pork futures mixed on trading on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. December live cattle were 0.72 cent higher at 74.47 cents a pound; December live hogs were 0.03 cent lower at 43.92 cents a pound and February frozen pork bellies were 0.12 cent lower at 42.60 cents a pound.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (92%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); MIDWEST USA (70%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (92%); PAINEWEBBER INC (71%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MIDWEST USA (70%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; OPTIONS TRADING; COPPER, BRASS AND BRONZE; PRICES FUTURES (96%); COPPER MARKETS (94%); COPPER INDUSTRY (92%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (92%); COMMODITIES TRADING (91%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (91%); METALS MARKETS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BASE METALS MARKETS (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (90%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (90%); CORN MARKETS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); OATS MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); PORK (77%); NATURAL GAS (77%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (77%); HOG & PIG FARMING (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); HEATING OIL (76%); GASOLINE (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); CORN FARMING (73%); AGRICULTURE (73%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (61%); 

PERSON: BERNARD SAVAIKO (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1992



921 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 278 words

HEADLINE: Big Winner From Plunge In Sterling

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: LONDON, Oct. 26

 BODY:
The Hungarian-American financier George Soros made a profit of almost $1 billion during last month's devaluation of the British pound by betting heavily that the currency would collapse despite Government assurances to the contrary.
In an interview reported today in the Times of London, Mr. Soros said he had borrowed heavily to take his stand against the pound because he was confident the German Bundesbank wanted devaluations in Britain and Italy, but not in France. 
 In the weeks leading up to Sept. 16, known as Black Wednesday in Britain, Mr. Soros sold pounds, betting $10 billion that Prime Minister John Major would fail to keep the currency above its floor in Europe's Exchange Rate Mechanism.
He won, and Mr. Major lost. The onslaught by currency speculators forced Mr. Major to pull the pound out of the European Community's system for regulating the value of the community's national currencies. The pound was subsequently devalued by 12 percent.
"We must have been the biggest single factor in the market in the days before the E.R.M. fell apart," The Times quoted Mr. Soros as saying. "Our total position by Black Wednesday had to be worth almost $10 billion."
The depth of the British recession made Mr. Major's commitment to keep the pound at 2.95 German marks untenable, he said.
Mr. Soros was identified over the weekend in the United States and Britain as the man who made a billion out of the pound's collapse. "A billion is about right as an estimate of the profit, though dollars, not pounds," he said.
The profit was not his personal gain but that of the $4 billion Quantum Fund and three smaller offshoots he manages.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); HUNGARY (91%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); HUNGARY (91%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (91%); DEVALUATION (91%); BRITISH POUND (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); 

PERSON: SOROS, GEORGE GEORGE SOROS (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1992



922 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 6642 words

HEADLINE: Uncovered Short Sales Rise Again on the Nasdaq

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
The number of over-the-counter shares sold short and not yet covered rose between mid-September and mid-October, the ninth straight monthly increase, the National Association of Securities dealers said yesterday.
The latest monthly figures reflect trades that took place on the Nasdaq system as of Oct. 7 and settled as of Oct 15. These uncovered short positions are a widely watched gauge of investor sentiment, since they reflect the activities of a large contingent of professional sellers who specialize in ferreting out overvalued companies. 
 By borrowing the stocks of those companies and selling them at high prices, the investors are betting that prices will fall, thereby enabling the short-sellers to buy the shares back cheaply and pocket the difference.
As in the previous month, the mid-September through mid-October period was a difficult one for short-sellers, because Nasdaq's broad market averages moved higher, not lower. And much of the rise has taken place since the beginning of the month.
"Short-sellers started the month in pretty good shape, up about 2 percent to 3 percent," said Harry Strunk, a Palm Beach, Fla., investment consultant who tracks professional short-sellers. "But since early October, they are down about 3 percent on average."
Despite the rise in broad over-the-counter averages, nervousness about the Nov. 3 Presidential election led to a 4.9 percent increase in outstanding short interest on the Nasdaq, to 462.7 million shares, from 440.7 million shares in September.
"These over-the-counter stocks have been pretty strong of late," said one professional short-seller, who asked not to be identified, "and the higher the price goes, the greater the chance that they will be shorted. But the economy seems to be picking up a notch, which makes me wonder if the increase in short interest is justified."
Short interest in the 2,670 over-the-counter issues traded on Nasdaq's National Market System amounted to 438.8 million shares during the period, up from 416.2 million shares from mid-August to mid-September.
Meanwhile, short interest in 971 small-capitalization Nasdaq issues aggregated 23.9 million shares, down slightly from the 24.5 million shares traded in the previous month.
As a result of a sharp increase in overall trading volume after the normally slow August-September month, short interest recorded through mid-October represents 2.82 days average daily Nasdaq National Market System volume, compared with 3.43 days for the period ended mid-September

 	 	 	 	 	Largest Increases	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Security Name	10-15-92	9-15-92	Change	 	 	 	 	 	 	Medco Containmnt 	9,895,956	6,567,191	3,328,765		Southland Corp 	1,921,969	  73,247	1,848,722		Lotus Development Corp	3,198,487	1,959,090	1,239,397	T	Scimed Life Sys Inc	3,902,531	2,698,807	1,203,724	T	Tokos Med Corp Del 	4,663,786	3,514,949	1,148,837	T	Xilinx Inc 	1,854,867	 739,780	1,115,087	T	Borland Intl Inc 	4,553,913	3,505,388	1,048,525	T	Sun Microsystems Inc	6,061,202	5,169,000	 892,202	T	Biomet Inc 	1,742,074	 855,941	 886,133	T	Greenwich Pharm Inc	3,108,442	2,223,179	 885,263	T	Octel Commun Corp	1,167,215	 326,168	 841,047	T	Frame Tech Corp 	1,201,546	 403,828	 797,718	T	Wellfleet Commun Inc	2,333,142	1,580,579	 752,563	T	Artisoft Inc 	1,781,228	1,033,465	 747,763	T	Buffets Inc 	3,144,583	2,398,635	 745,948	T	Stryker Corp 	1,619,424	 888,510	 730,914	T	Costco Wholesale Corp	2,586,068	1,884,792	 701,276	T	Noble Drilling Corp 	 697,931	  4,459	 693,472	T	Dell Computer Corp 	4,334,436	3,654,356	 680,080	T	Alco Intl Gp Inc 	1,169,401	 516,092	 653,309		Mentor Graphics Corp	1,500,473	 951,455	 549,018	T	Diamond Entertain Corp	 530,406	  0	 530,406		Mobile Telecomm Tech	2,747,817	2,227,910	 519,907	T	Read-Rite Corp 	1,131,508	 617,985	 513,523	T	Danek Gp Inc 	1,414,732	 910,951	 503,781	T	
 	 	 	 	 	Largest Decreases	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Security Name	10-15-92	9-15-92	Change	 	 	 	 	 	 	Boatmen's Bancshares	 374,677	1,376,572	-1,001,895	T	Structural Dynamics	 964,423	1,958,405	 -993,982	T	Cytogen Corp 	1,138,281	2,087,746	 -949,465	T	Checkers Drive In 	2,486,165	3,350,475	 -864,310	T	Adobe Systems Inc 	4,735,699	5,417,963	 -682,264	T	WPP Gp Adr 	 876,529	1,547,890	 -671,361	T	Healthcare Compare	 793,221	1,411,718	 -618,497	T	Lone Star Steakhouse	 727,782	1,303,686	 -575,904	T	Alliance Pharm Corp 	 974,552	1,496,761	 -522,209	T	Video Lottery Tech	 419,121	 924,637	 -505,516	T	+ Novell Inc 	3,565,431	4,056,812	 -491,381	T	Intel Corp 	1,047,800	1,516,575	 -468,775	T	Lifecore Biomedical	 316,373	 781,637	 -465,264	T	Nordstrom Inc 	2,384,096	2,837,058	 -452,962	T	Retix 	  14,315	 461,463	 -447,148	T	+ Rally's Inc 	2,053,118	2,485,795	 -432,677	T	Alias Research Inc	  79,310	 489,943	 -410,633	T	McCaw Cellular A 	 501,754	 906,792	 -405,038	T	Seagate Tech 	 874,490	1,278,683	 -404,193	T	Filene's Basement Corp	  65,872	 469,264	 -403,392	T	Immune Response Corp	1,765,848	2,121,034	 -355,186	T	Charter One Finl Inc	  51,085	 405,929	 -354,844	T	State Street Boston	 625,952	 979,631	 -353,679	T	Intl Cablecasting 	 720,025	1,053,746	 -333,721	T	Deprenyl Research 	 215,225	 516,678	 -301,453	T	
 	 	 	 	 	Largest Cover Ratios	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Security Name	10-15-92	Avg. Vol.	Days	Mkt	 	 	 	 	 	Fastenal Co 	2,505,533	  41,809	  60	T	Westwood One Inc 	1,417,396	  31,177	  45	T	Interface Inc A 	1,294,954	  31,151	  42	T	Mail Boxes Etc 	1,815,088	  46,854	  39	T	SGI International 	2,259,237	  58,692	  38	T	Dibrell Brothers Inc	1,728,760	  48,110	  36	T	Medicine Shoppe Intl	1,515,687	  45,871	  33	T	Compression Lab Inc	3,299,978	 107,516	  31	T	Copytele Inc 	2,579,329	  86,365	  30	T	Trimble Navigation	1,341,070	  44,489	  30	T	LDDS CommA 	2,706,883	  98,171	  28	T	Kentucky Central A	1,364,242	  50,680	  27	T	Groundwater Tech Inc	 916,628	  35,933	  26	T	Insituform No Amer A	 980,830	  37,666	  26	T	Rouse Co 	3,012,852	 114,695	  26	T	Aura Systems Inc 	2,892,202	 124,310	23	T	Presstek Inc 	 657,886	  29,502	  22	T	Summit Tech Inc	2,995,460	 133,416	  22	T	IHOP Corp. 	 808,311	  39,335	  21	T	Midlantic Corp 	5,596,168	 266,043	  21	T	Integra Fin Corp 	 859,902	  42,285	  20	T	XOMA Corp. 	3,782,508	 189,948	  20	T	BBT Finl Corp 	 834,962	  42,975	  19	T	Cabot Medical Corp 	 651,013	  33,587	  19	T	
 	 	 	 	 	Largest Positions	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Security Name	10-15-92	9-15-92	Change	 	 	 	 	 	 	Medco Containmnt 	9,895,956	6,567,191	3,328,765	T	Sun Microsystems Inc	6,061,202	5,169,000	 892,202	T	Cisco Sys Inc 	5,741,117	5,440,013	 301,104	T	Midlantic Corp 	5,596,168	5,724,432	 -128,264	T	Tele Commun Inc A 	5,442,900	5,071,605	 371,295	T	Adobe Systems Inc 	4,735,699	5,417,963	 -682,264	T	Tokos Med Corp Del 	4,663,786	3,514,949	1,148,837	T	Borland Intl Inc 	4,553,913	3,505,388	1,048,525	T	Centocor Inc 	4,497,235	4,332,205	 165,030	T	Dell Computer Corp 	4,334,436	3,654,356	 680,080	T	Amer Power Convers	3,975,115	3,697,649	 277,466	T	Tyson Foods IncA	3,935,374	3,924,068	  11,306	T	Scimed Life Sys Inc	3,902,531	2,698,807	1,203,724	T	York Research Corp 	3,885,116	4,007,769	 -122,653	T	XOMA Corp. 	3,782,508	3,796,953	 -14,445	T	+ Novell Inc 	3,565,431	4,056,812	 -491,381	T	Microsoft Corp 	3,551,304	3,196,470	 354,834	T	Comcast Corp Cl A Spcl	3,434,035	3,405,731	  28,304	T	Comp USA Inc	3,379,913	3,448,014	 -68,101	T	Compression Lab Inc	3,299,978	3,358,170	 -58,192	T	Electronic Arts Inc	3,214,368	3,147,416	  66,952	T	Lotus Development Corp	3,198,487	1,959,090	1,239,397	T	Buffets Inc 	3,144,583	2,398,635	 745,948	T	Greenwich Pharm Inc	3,108,442	2,223,179	 885,263	T	+ U.S. Healthcare Inc	3,067,335	2,695,096	 372,239	T	
 	 	 	National Market	 	 	 	 	 	Security Name	10-15-92	9-15-92	 	 	 	3Com Corp	259,726	46,980	4th Dimen Sftwar Ltd	25,200	N.L.	50 Off Stores Inc	1,998,536	1,991,150	ADAC Laboratories	118,816	77,070	Advanta Cl-A	1,607,077	1,198,655	Advanta Cl-B	726,574	746,252	AES Corp (The)	610,782	600,240	ASK Computer Sys	89,520	185,052	AST Research Inc	2,259,784	2,126,657	AW Brands Inc	224,591	63,453	Acclaim Entertainmnt	233,164	289,239	Adaptec Inc	472,735	517,715	Adobe Systems Inc	4,735,699	5,417,963	Adv Tech Labs	370,747	190,996	Advan Interventional	201,395	205,737	Advanced Polymer Sys	320,103	308,701	Advanced Telecommun	568,273	427,630	Advanced Tissue Sci	374,656	345,292	Advantage Promo Tech	320,947	340,825	Affil Bkshs of Col	86,424	16,207	Affymax N V	217,466	152,940	Aldus Corp	759,646	690,560	Alias Research Inc	79,310	489,943	Alkermes Inc	157,564	176,892	All Amer Semi Wts B	25,820	54,765	All For A Dollar Inc	41,340	17,000	Alliance Pharm Corp	974,552	1,496,761	Allied Capital Corp	31,264	9,644	Alteon Inc	454,670	405,529	Altera Corp	449,532	415,142	Amer BiogeneticA	282,282	273,290	Amer Dental Laser	310,272	334,424	Amer Film Tech Inc	338,236	377,892	Amer Power Convers	3,975,115	3,697,649	Amer Res Hldgs Corp	4,449	60,219	Amer Software Inc A	403,639	125,504	Amer Superconductor	167,234	188,325	Amgen	2,160,299	2,253,952	Ampex Inc Cl-A	147,811	121,417	Amtech Corp	1,248,261	1,124,226	Amylin Pharma Inc	456,929	431,039	Andrew Corp	49,914	31,134	Anergen Inc	79,489	98,789	Apertus Tech Inc	49,681	12,016	Apple Computer Inc	1,201,372	1,334,004	Applebee's Intl Inc	320,870	205,700	Applied Biosystems	129,323	56,127	Applied Immune Sci	379,863	252,377	Applied Materials	850,841	642,459	Arbor Drugs Inc	31,937	13,103	Archive Corp	127,656	70,920	Arkansas Freightways	41,259	7,773	Artisoft Inc	1,781,228	1,033,465	Assoc Banc Corp	44,608	1,055	Au Bon PainA	1,343,356	1,158,597	Aura Systems Inc	2,892,202	N.L.	Autodesk Inc	600,414	519,074	Aztar Corp	16,071	44,027	BBT Finl Corp	834,962	813,113	Bisys Gp The	31,284	8,173	BLOC Dev Corp	253,239	273,276	BMC Software Inc	1,813,505	1,858,011	Babbage's Inc	630,953	562,940	Ballard Medical Prod	185,093	151,718	Bancorp of Miss Inc	49,947	75,342	Banctec Inc	76,936	15,299	Bank South Corp	214,148	280,081	Banta Corp	45,447	15,069	Banyan Systems Inc	125,402	157,035	Base Ten Systems A	120,324	28,493	Bassett Furniture	226,387	179,815	Baybanks Inc	113,298	145,318	Beauticontrol Cosmet	46,979	106,315	Bed Bath & Beyond	164,074	78,803	Bel Fuse Inc	97,429	77,838	Bell Sports Corp	633,959	170,293	Ben & Jerry's Cl A	583,163	660,910	Berkley W R Corp	10,096	40,139	Bertucci's Inc	414,828	397,825	Betz Labs Inc	237,121	251,582	Bindley Wstn Ind	437,502	10,785	Biochem Pharm Inc	125,910	87,125	Biogen Inc	1,106,022	1,025,344	Biomagnetic Tech Inc	108,563	87,838	Biomedical Waste Sys	8,584	27,136	Biomet Inc	1,742,074	855,941	Bioplasty Inc	203,658	218,670	Bird Corp	28,075	6,522	Birtcher Med Sys Inc	296,365	276,175	Boatmen's Bancshares	374,677	1,376,572	Borland Intl Inc	4,553,913	3,505,388	Boston Tech Inc	671,806	672,834	Brand The	108,813	135,902	Bridgford Foods Corp	27,421	45,949	Broderbund Software	274,352	376,731	Brooktree Corp	128,023	100,678	Brunos Inc	1,205,080	1,479,919	Buffets Inc	3,144,583	2,398,635	Burnup & Sims Inc	529,325	554,742	Bytex Corp	122,273	98,298	CBL Medical Inc	73,074	26,925	CCC Franchising Corp	613,856	564,548	CIS Tech Inc	941,527	1,005,471	Cabot Medical Corp	651,013	663,866	Cadbury Schweppe ADR	32,186	13,262	Caere Corp	89,763	27,772	Calgene Inc	386,475	359,850	Cambex Corp	302,140	311,471	Cambridge Biotech Corp	486,390	361,642	Canandaigua Wine A	207,685	213,653	Candela Laser Corp	35,712	84,125	Capital Associates	26,691	0	Caraustar Inds Inc	47,065	N.L.	Cardinal Distr	2,255,409	2,185,876	Carmike CinemasA	106,012	3,707	Casey's Gen Stores	277,675	251,407	Cato Corp TheA	61,155	89,475	Cel Sci Corp	123,512	162,655	Cellpro Inc	80,847	52,271	Cellular CommA	144,470	192,991	Cellular Inc	522,304	550,603	Centex Telemanagemnt	2,551,639	2,617,780	Centocor Inc	4,497,235	4,332,205	Central Fidelity Bks	176,327	49,862	Central Jersey Bncp	110,573	41,627	Chapin Medical Co Sa	39,316	15,873	Charming Shoppes Inc	374,501	282,551	Charter Golf Inc	202,926	228,301	Charter One Finl Inc	51,085	405,929	Checkers Drive In	2,486,165	3,350,475	Checkpoint Sys Inc	240,973	224,703	Cheesecake Factory	110,999	N.L.	Chemfix Tech	21,173	1,280	Chipcom Corp	830,083	581,971	Chips & Tech Inc	242,164	220,354	Chiron Corp	819,853	1,045,381	Cintas Corp	202,757	208,216	Circon Corp	702,502	623,773	Cirrus Logic Inc	424,670	396,198	Cisco Sys Inc	5,741,117	5,440,013	Clearly Canadian Bev	1,891,424	1,927,155	Cliffs Drilling Co	301,680	297,003	Cognex Corp	56,375	113,368	Coherent Inc	92,390	63,677	Collaborative Res	21,065	88	Collagen Corp	751,840	777,657	Collective Bancorp	40,683	62,465	Collins Inds Inc	61,419	3,952	Colonial Bancgroup A	49,764	4,103	Columbia Hospital Corp	70,386	124,816	Comcast Corp A	1,035,006	1,003,223	Comcast Corp Cl A Spcl	3,434,035	3,405,731	Commerce Bcshs	171,647	21,219	Commerce Bnc Corp	45,774	2,136	Commerce Bncp Inc NJ	962	20,257	Commerce Clearing A	120,071	141,474	Comp USA Inc	3,379,913	3,448,014	Compania Cerv Un ADR	127,852	N.L.	Compression Lab Inc	3,299,978	3,358,170	Comptronix Corp	509,858	333,983	Computer Prod Inc	168,662	212,465	Concord Camera Corp	1,529,346	1,264,343	Cons Papers Inc	313,532	287,522	Cons Products Inc	97,164	63,004	Consilium Inc	157,318	220,024	Constellation Bncp	171,869	128,752	Copytele Inc	2,579,329	2,479,657	Cordis Corp	45,160	76,091	Corestates Fin Corp	176,975	277,265	Corrections Corp Am Wt	28,745	N.L.	Corrections Corp Amer	297,515	324,481	Costar Corp	3,300	21,756	Costco Wholesale Corp	2,586,068	1,884,792	Cott Corp	61,051	41,148	Coventry Corp	229,403	150,230	Cracker Barrel Old	1,742,596	1,558,704	Cragin Finl Corp	51,292	32,787	Cray Comp Corp	484,774	488,750	Creative Tech Ord	207,167	8,554	Crestar Finl Corp	152,624	84,785	Crown Resources Corp	246,434	247,863	Cryenco Sciences Inc	39,477	7,230	Cryomedical Sci	1,501,383	1,409,128	Curaflex Hlth Svcs	93,817	38,109	Curative Tech Inc	342,288	345,770	Cygnus Therapeutic	261,089	267,386	Cytogen Corp	1,138,281	2,087,746	Cytrx Corp	210,028	152,125	Dekalb Genet B	45,185	1,773	DNA Plant Tech Corp	995,367	1,008,682	DSC Commun Corp	627,977	617,770	Danek Gp Inc	1,414,732	910,951	Datascope Corp	973,023	801,722	Day Runner Inc	129,058	12,449	Dell Computer Corp	4,334,436	3,654,356	Dento Med Inds Inc	113,100	87,236	Deprenyl Research	215,225	516,678	Deprenyl USA Inc.	53,242	17,987	Designs Inc	55,976	77,285	Dibrell Brothers Inc	1,728,760	1,753,662	Digital Microwave Corp	301,796	308,357	Digital Prods Corp	657,516	339,921	Digital Sound Corp	3,127	22,498	Dixie Yarns Inc	38,959	5,025	Dollar General Corp	259,749	365,121	Dominion Bkshs	47,871	277,369	Dorchester Hugo Dr	0	23,325	Dress Barn The	55,200	5,783	Dreyers Grand Ice	682,587	718,338	Drug Emporium	428,575	382,386	Dynatech Corp	98,511	7,063	ERO Inc	34,287	5,234	Eagle Hardware & Gdn	687,872	257,653	Ecogen Inc	334,844	436,986	Egghead Inc	409,396	167,016	El Paso Electric Co	783,889	770,933	Electromagnetic Sci	2,081	29,912	Electronic Arts Inc	3,214,368	3,147,416	Embrex Inc	42,414	11,029	Emisphere Tech Inc	318,935	277,329	Empi Inc	34,916	60,534	Emulex Corp	8,981	31,787	Enclean Inc	3,952	24,371	Envoy Corp	220,729	232,094	Enzon Inc	461,419	424,780	Equitex Inc	67,360	16,462	Eskimo Pie Corp	1,572	31,020	Everex Systems Inc	293,561	228,362	Exabyte Corp	260,763	135,252	Executive Telecard	482,691	471,555	F&C Intl Inc	54,227	91,100	FHP Intl Corp	178,204	141,599	FM Properties	40,358	62,766	Farm & Home Fin Corp	101,700	70,581	Farrel Corp	3,551	23,590	Fastenal Co	2,505,533	2,434,133	Fifth Third Bncp	475,491	550,536	Filene's Basement Corp	65,872	469,264	Filenet Corp	353,050	279,978	First Alabama Bcshs	127,776	24,501	First Amer Financial	37,758	4,285	First Commerce Corp La	374,864	335,167	First Commercial L R	98,712	3,029	First Cons Fin Corp	136,464	105,988	First Florida Banks	75,016	54,194	First Pacific Ntwks	96,384	44,490	First Team Sports	259,206	264,289	First Tenn Natl Corp	653,033	584,593	Firstrock Bncp Inc	19,047	N.L.	Food Lion IncA	403,754	556,375	Food Lion IncB	930,105	802,047	Foremost Corp Of Amer	101,146	49,290	Forest Oil Corp	1,120,241	1,081,457	Fourth Financial Corp	164,179	129,250	Frame Tech Corp	1,201,546	403,828	Gende X Corp	81,087	23,172	GK Svcs IncA	34,841	69,596	Gantos Inc	201,515	207,896	Gehl Company	114,282	90,409	Gencor Industries	45,950	8,626	Genelabs Tech Inc	121,075	159,777	Genetics Inst Dep Sh	586,543	562,105	Gensia Pharm Inc	2,184,448	2,202,712	Gentex Corp	1,045,657	947,300	Genzyme Corp	1,827,385	1,640,821	Gerrity Oil Gas Corp	72,657	18,405	Gibson Greetings Inc	432,564	267,145	Giddings Lewis Inc	1,227,680	1,150,686	Good Guys Inc The	112,824	133,517	Grancare Inc	52,519	31,831	Grand Casinos Inc	933,292	1,087,100	Grant Tensor Geophys	237,028	275,064	Great Amer Commun Co	758,175	754,459	Greenwich Pharm Inc	3,108,442	2,223,179	Groundwater Tech Inc	916,628	931,835	Guest Supply Inc	2,134	29,988	HBO Co.	95,209	53,197	Hawthorne Financial	224,853	227,050	Health Images Inc	737,054	363,518	Healthcare Compare	793,221	1,411,718	Healthcare Imaging	52,250	19,189	Healthcare Svcs Gp	1,486,735	1,504,140	Healthdyne Inc	942,328	1,012,309	Healthinfusion Inc	646,674	552,614	Heart Tech Inc	559,260	341,568	Hechinger CoA	394,989	420,251	Herbalife Intl Inc	694,921	683,935	Home Beneficial Corp B	65,000	0	Home Fed Corp	82,204	49,435	Home Nutritional	86,862	110,479	Home Office Referenc	42,300	18,319	Homedco Gp Inc	252,106	254,632	Huntington Bcshs	26,850	5,002	Hutchinson Tech Inc	211,152	167,282	ICF Intl Inc	3,209	41,271	ICOS Corp	898,657	746,461	IDB Commun Gp Inc	87,766	16,766	IHOP Corp	808,311	800,684	Interso L V	167,196	71,323	IWC Res Corp	51,803	4,081	Imatron Inc	117,309	162,888	Immune Response Corp	1,765,848	2,121,034	Immunex Corp	2,288,852	2,003,793	Immunomedics Inc	461,049	468,498	Imperial Bancorp	512,759	512,566	Infinity Broadcast A	8,213	47,474	Info Resources Inc	208,704	268,585	+ Informix Corp	1,553,861	1,365,962	Infrasonics Inc	36,092	16,554	Ins Auto Auctions	384,263	103,797	Insituform No Amer A	980,830	962,045	Integra Fin Corp	859,902	713,419	Integrated Devic Tec	567,994	569,398	Integrated Hlth Svcs	16,678	48,358	Integrated Waste Svc	410,610	406,506	Intel Corp	1,047,800	1,516,575	Intelligent Elec	503,951	508,437	Interactive Network	505,460	505,875	Interface Inc A	1,294,954	1,275,118	Intergraph Corp	1,243,116	995,018	Intermet Corp	11,852	30,092	Interneuron Pharm	440,434	292,655	Intervoice Inc	348,124	315,720	Intl Cablecasting	720,025	1,053,746	Intl Dairy Queen A	259,514	244,725	Intl Totalizator Sys	40,369	60,469	Isis Pharm Inc	273,607	276,279	JB Hunt Trans Svcs	279,049	239,241	J Baker Inc	1,826,485	1,620,093	Jean Philippe Frag	3,462	96,052	Jones Intrcable A	359,867	375,970	KLA Instruments	305,207	284,067	Kaydon Corp	53,874	26,258	Keene Corp	46,155	26,419	Kelley Oil Corp	249,674	251,886	Kelly ServicesA	280,366	214,542	Kentucky Central A	1,364,242	1,487,111	Komag Inc	65,498	91,334	Kopin Corp	84,067	59,472	LDDS CommA	2,706,883	2,401,963	LM Ericsson Tel ADR	2,353,242	2,054,638	La Petite Academy	44,303	92,474	Ladd Furniture Inc	8,948	82,047	Lam Research Corp	212,837	178,756	Lannet Data Comm Ord	211,052	170,943	Lasermaster Tech Inc	147,239	172,824	Lawson Products Inc	140,920	165,172	Learning Co (The)	287,280	324,598	Lechters Inc	592,112	589,586	Legent Corp	983,664	970,909	Liberty Bancorp Inc	3,221	101,161	Liberty Bncp Okla	143,497	100,338	Lifecore Biomedical	316,373	781,637	Lin Broadcasting Corp	383,066	356,949	Linear Technology Corp	207,496	202,143	Liposome	605,777	621,587	Liposome Tech Inc	286,211	273,058	Littelfuse Inc	212,264	N.L.	Loewen Group Inc	431,100	432,611	Lone Star Steakhouse	727,782	1,303,686	Longhorn Steaks Inc	332,066	300,336	Lotus Development Corp	3,198,487	1,959,090	Lunar Corp	25,820	73,476	MCI Comm Corp	1,038,871	1,200,172	+ MS Carriers Inc	90,213	5,460	MTS Systems Corp	108,358	26,649	Macmillan Bloedel	2,373,930	2,374,030	Magma Power Co	48,189	71,082	Magna Group Inc	46,888	8,283	Mail Boxes Etc	1,815,088	1,775,790	Marcam Corp	497,913	413,453	Marine Drilling Co	117,872	175,472	Marquest Med Prod	280,787	198,985	Marsh Supermarkets A	72,239	11,026	Masco Inds	164,569	115,636	Matrix Service Co	57,591	77,403	Matthews Studio Equi	6,930	26,649	Maxicare Hlth New	506,692	468,372	Maxtor Corp	296,321	332,310	McAfee Associates	69,480	N.L.	McCaw Cellular A	501,754	906,792	McCormick Co NV	133,194	103,193	Medaphis Corp	7,932	73,659	Medarex Inc	38,381	75,950	Medco Containmnt	9,895,956	6,567,191	Medical Imaging	267,072	290,963	Medical Marketing Gp	1,693,069	1,640,653	Medical Tech Sys Inc	16,218	38,423	Medicine Shoppe Intl	1,515,687	1,581,310	Medicis PharmA	207,400	289,152	Medicis Pharma Wt B	805	65,845	Medimmune Inc	449,559	268,732	Megafoods Stores Inc	22,758	66	Memorex Telex NV Adr	8,714	88,521	Mentor Corp The	936,675	910,576	Mentor Graphics Corp	1,500,473	951,455	Mercantile Bkshs Corp	29,797	49,414	Meridian Bncp Inc	48,723	23,285	Meris Labs Inc	215,489	186,866	Merisel Inc	443,045	527,207	Meritor Savings Bank	655,509	721,019	Mesa Airlines Inc	147,874	83,789	Methanex Corp	13,045	33,360	Miami Subs Corp	400,569	420,078	Michael Foods Inc	1,752,923	1,753,370	Michaels Stores Inc	1,199,462	1,030,369	Micro Bio-Medics Inc	104,757	1,205	Micro Focus Spon ADR	60,898	13,236	Micro Healthsys Inc	463,189	583,732	Micrografx Inc	141,648	121,157	Microprose Inc	177,316	115,819	Microsoft Corp	3,551,304	3,196,470	Microtouch Sys Inc	70,725	51,876	Mid Atlantic Medical	243,254	353,893	Midlantic Corp	5,596,168	5,724,432	Miller Herman Inc	231,290	238,325	Millicom Inc	336,515	330,857	Mobile Telecomm Tech	2,747,817	2,227,910	Mohawk Inds Inc	153,030	33,790	Molex Inc	469,092	406,374	Multibank Fin Corp	88,711	34,918	Multimedia Inc	205,315	255,856	Mylex Corp	86,549	120,447	NESB Corp.	159,857	123,431	Natl Data Corp	198,466	106,731	+ Natl Vision Assoc	1,239,175	1,327,153	Natural Wonders	361,804	179,508	Nellcor Inc	64,918	42,382	Neorx Corp	935,163	953,781	Network General Corp	399,375	374,719	Network Systems Corp	665,409	787,123	Neutrogena Corp	385,547	374,023	Newbridge Netwks Corp	93,430	63,428	Newport Corp	57,611	2,056	Nichols Research Corp	160,425	1,564	Noble Drilling Corp	697,931	4,459	Noise Cancellation	1,270,380	1,431,984	Nordstrom Inc	2,384,096	2,837,058	North Star Universal	219,663	275,738	Northeast Bncp	534,436	503,005	Northern Tr Corp	24,682	95,858	+ Novell Inc	3,565,431	4,056,812	Novellus Systems Inc	360,956	538,451	Ntwk Computing Dev	49,878	18,691	Nu-West Inds Inc	385,452	378,821	Octel Commun Corp	1,167,215	326,168	Ohio Casualty Corp	37,267	67,018	+ Old Kent Fin Corp	7,227	35,755	Old Stone Corp	474,644	462,420	On The Border Cafes	20,150	1,570	Oncor Inc	157,797	177,231	One Price Clothing	131,840	15,404	Optical Data Systems	31,121	3,340	Option Care Inc	23,980	3,995	Oracle Systems Corp	910,962	1,001,656	Oshkosh B GoshA	241,241	291,304	Oshkosh TruckB	73,455	7,428	Outback Steakhouse	1,616,658	1,416,131	Oxford Health Plans	137,079	50,695	PCA Intl Inc	56,425	38,556	PDK Labs Inc	331,897	363,194	PDK Labs Wts C 97	0	23,981	Platinum Tech	359,761	333,725	Pac Rim Hldg Corp	165,156	203,845	Pacific Dunlop ADR	239,436	299,176	Pacificare HlthA	454,368	377,793	Parametric Tech Corp	1,073,893	1,254,183	Park Commun Inc	172,063	132,992	Penril Datacomm Ntwk	92,959	35,390	Pentair Inc	632,105	542,186	Penwest Ltd	219,889	235,165	Peoples Bncp Worcstr	30,477	4,165	Peoples Heri Fin Gp	457,000	446,282	Perfumania Inc	257,035	283,983	Perrigo Company	145,308	196,525	Pharmacy Mgmt Svc	502,588	513,322	Phycor Inc	277,593	266,931	Picturetel Corp	2,197,398	1,825,761	Pinkerton's Inc	141,728	274,597	Pioneer Bancorp Inc	12	22,674	Pioneer Gp Inc The	89,305	1,216	Pioneer Hi Bred Intl	92,529	133,006	Pioneer Std Elct	47,028	342,254	Plexus Corp	51,333	12,182	Possis Corp	324,586	316,655	Premier Anesthesia	137,752	93,447	Presidential Life Corp	394,783	419,299	Presstek Inc	657,886	679,603	Price Co The	1,575,810	1,650,963	Production Oper	985,049	676,548	Progress Software Corp	105,715	51,216	Proteon Inc	218,293	12,445	Provident Bncp Inc	79,430	3,112	Public Svc Co of N C	61,185	15,926	Pure Tech Intl	181,996	155,367	Puritan Bennett Corp	1,224,500	1,069,945	Pyxis Corp	32,118	9,490	Qualcomm Inc	946,996	748,585	QVC Network Inc	304,486	257,216	Quadrex Corp	365,966	360,926	Quantum Corp	2,860,882	3,103,964	Quantum Hlth Res Inc	134,475	37,114	Quantum Restaurant	72,460	11,540	Quarterdeck Office	26,170	92,008	Quartz Mount Gold Corp	3,392	22,034	Quiksilver Inc	138,368	187,774	RPM Inc	900,420	936,310	Radiation Care Inc	371,227	247,006	Rainbow Tech Inc	43,781	14,810	+ Rally's Inc	2,053,118	2,485,795	Ramsay H M O Inc	86,336	64,045	Ratners Gp ADR	74,279	153,921	Read-Rite Corp	1,131,508	617,985	Recoton Corp	364,153	336,258	Regal Comm Corp	99,907	60,070	Rehabclinics Inc	80,065	61,342	Rentrak Corp	151,701	258,759	Repap Enterprises Corp	253,731	254,856	Repossession Auct Wt	51,225	1,200	+ Republic Bancorp Inc	53,650	6,146	Republic Waste Inds	101,503	144,391	Research Industries	522,463	659,200	Restor Inds Inc	26,589	1,389	Retix	14,315	461,463	Reuters Hldg Adr	2,137,274	2,102,263	Ribi Immunochem	441,752	448,613	Riddell Sports Inc	39,046	6,844	Riggs Natl Corp The	415,158	304,942	Rio Hotel & Casino	118,441	57,711	Roadway Services Inc	87,049	237,665	Roberts Pharm Corp	590,616	527,002	Roses Stores Inc	283,248	299,625	Ross Cosmetics Dist	938,044	838,495	Rouse Co	3,012,852	2,987,259	Ryan's Family Steak	47,222	100,458	Safeco Corp.	216,961	284,435	Sanborn Wts A	2,080	94,041	SCI Systems Inc	849,895	561,843	SGI International	2,259,237	2,131,935	SLM Intl Inc	41,739	18,826	Softima G E	80,523	14,261	Steri's Cp	299,271	177,487	Schuler Homes Inc	340,602	369,158	Schulman A Inc	18,836	45,677	Sciclone Pharma Inc	237,021	209,007	Scimed Life Sys Inc	3,902,531	2,698,807	Scitex Corp	699,567	532,198	Score Board Inc The	1,033,539	1,078,489	Seagate Tech	874,490	1,278,683	Seibels Bruce Group	6,658	102,462	Sequent Computer Sys	403,856	340,850	Sequoia Sys Inc	804,171	1,102,710	Shorewood Pkging Corp	51,791	75,333	Sierra On Line Inc	509,414	508,375	Sierra Semiconductor	44,699	9,243	Sigma Aldrich Corp	155,890	136,029	Silicon Valley Bncsh	435,047	409,423	Software Etc. Stores	36,726	17,951	Software Publishing	257,454	180,322	Software Spectrum	29,149	59,411	Software Toolwks Inc	236,127	238,789	Somatix Therapy Corp	138,558	162,715	Somatogen Inc	1,748,374	1,639,781	Sonic Corp	423,250	627,374	Southtrust Corp	524,109	314,930	Southwest Cafes S3	6,117	50,150	Sovereign Bancorp	174,589	213,141	Spartan Motors Inc	242,182	244,502	Spectranetics Corp The	286,994	295,871	Spectrum Info Tech	290,060	331,817	St Jude Medical Inc	849,039	888,290	St Paul Bancorp Inc	14,296	50,182	Stac Electronics	248,874	295,430	Staples Inc	2,098,758	2,232,691	Star Banc Corp	36,665	80,634	Star States Corp	208,482	179,492	Starbucks Corp	493,155	360,425	State Street Boston	625,952	979,631	Statesman Gp Inc The	27,279	8,895	Strawbridge Cloth A	78,806	2,755	Structural Dynamics	964,423	1,958,405	Stryker Corp	1,619,424	888,510	Summit Bncp	233,177	56,530	Summit Tech Inc	2,995,460	2,903,049	Sun Microsystems Inc	6,061,202	5,169,000	Sun Television & App	141,111	117,123	Sungard Data Systems	637,494	578,303	Sunrise Tech Inc	760,518	742,031	Supermac Tech Inc	166,173	15,345	Surgical Laser Tech	165,095	291,409	Survival Technology	99,851	121,293	Sybase Inc	910,109	726,554	Symantec Corp	485,488	294,332	Synergen Inc	1,059,032	933,180	Synetic Inc	271,250	248,471	Synopsys Inc	412,501	355,308	Synoptics Commun Inc	730,848	767,343	Syquest Tech Inc	508,335	358,575	System Software	373,642	326,770	Systemed Inc	466,263	486,633	Systemix Inc	28,724	51,312	TCA Cable TV Inc	191,466	217,734	T Cell Sciences Inc	263,590	272,391	Tetra Tech Inc	51,749	31,051	TPI Enterprises	888,706	820,386	TRM Copy Ctrs Corp	109,503	61,827	TS I Corp	261,635	328,266	TW Holdings Inc	1,351,346	1,400,435	T*hq Inc	112,358	29,233	Takecare Inc	68,160	234,543	Tandon Corp	346,296	146,290	Tech Data Corp	101,485	40,432	Tech Solutions Co	82,910	13,824	Tele Commun Inc A	5,442,900	5,071,605	Telematics Intl Inc	39,563	9,093	Telios Pharma Inc	66,528	2,630	Tellabs Inc	76,607	45,784	Telxon Corp	931,550	717,351	Teva Pharm Ind ADR	579,289	740,154	The Buckle Inc	53,275	11,480	The Holson Burnes Gp	70,268	46,933	The Krystal Co	16,912	61,367	The Men's Wearhouse	100	48,630	+ Thomas Nelson Inc	86,259	30,952	Thorn Apple Valley	87,435	29,888	Tokos Med Corp Del	4,663,786	3,514,949	Topps The	927,242	573,810	Total Pharm Care Inc	155,368	108,653	Trimble Navigation	1,341,070	1,340,223	Trimedyne Inc	500,528	460,374	Trinzic Corp	21,931	400	Tseng Labs Inc	2,281,298	2,335,134	Tyson Foods IncA	3,935,374	3,924,068	UNR Inds Inc	174,892	150,046	USA Waste Service	252,216	19,800	US Bancorp Oregon	322,853	249,357	+ US Healthcare Inc	3,067,335	2,695,096	Unigene Labs Inc	267,383	242,554	Unilab Corp	297,750	226,376	Union Bk	294,367	278,545	United Gaming Inc	69,685	154,320	United Retail Gp Inc	28,812	6,806	Unitrin Inc	66,343	85,026	Univax Biologics Inc	35,181	11,212	Utah Medical Inc	14,488	45,088	VLSI Tech Inc	213,205	226,113	Valence Tech Inc	495,402	467,503	Valley National Bncp	74,569	967	+ Value Health Inc	277,633	316,093	Value-Added Commun	50,170	3,467	Vanguard Cellular A	308,165	394,987	Ventritex Inc	399,242	322,193	Verifone Inc	407,157	460,506	Vestar Inc	496,593	505,140	Vicor Corp	725,472	832,199	Video Lottery Tech	419,121	924,637	Videocart Inc	2,854,929	2,838,047	Viewlogic Systems	41,186	78,546	Viking Office Prods	22,968	3,409	Viratek Inc	341,439	333,071	Volvo AbB ADR	10,285	33,214	WPP Gp Adr	876,529	1,547,890	Walker Interactive	31,863	153,662	Washington Fed Sv Ln	21,883	46,648	Washington Mut Sv Bk	2,020,080	1,848,067	Wellfleet Commun Inc	2,333,142	1,580,579	+ Werner Enterprises	64,253	88,610	West One Bancorp	257,221	243,704	Westcott Comm	3,549	21,711	Western Publishing	126,917	31,362	Westwood One Inc	1,417,396	1,460,011	Wetterau Inc	305,552	401,994	Whole Foods Market	131,800	111,438	Willamette Inds Inc	302,063	282,012	William Sonoma Inc	208,611	99,899	Wilmington Trust Corp	8,315	30,307	Wolf Financial Gp	50,808	77,438	Worthington Inds Inc	96,730	151,207	XOMA Corp.	3,782,508	3,796,953	Xilinx Inc	1,854,867	739,780	Yellow Freight Del	1,098,192	1,114,489	York Research Corp	3,885,116	4,007,769	Younkers Inc	78,702	30,505	Zebra Tech Corp Cl-A	71,515	100,708	Zenith Labs Inc	203,858	218,442	Zeos Intl Ltd	901,187	1,016,876	Zilog Inc	101,771	75,841	Zoom Telephonics Inc	268,589	306,981	
 

 	 	 	Other Nasdaq	 	 	 	 	 	Security Name	10-15-92	9-15-92	 	 	 	Advanced Med Prods	5,842	47,582	Advanced Nmr Sys Inc	335,813	281,300	Agristar Inc	10,145	30,889	Airship Intl Ltd	5,648	55,309	Alcide Corp New	2,355	23,461	Alco Intl Gp Inc	1,169,401	516,092	Alter Sales	52,367	14,816	Amer Biomed Inc	16,759	34,781	Amer Drug Screens	23,120	1,900	Amer Med Tech Inc	19,140	56,596	Amer West Airline	630,830	675,144	American Aircraft A	0	27,779	Angeion Corp	177,700	226,934	Apogee Robotics Inc	7,934	54,729	Archer Commun Inc	208,873	206,141	Armanino Foods Wts	26,950	5,951	Artagraph Reprd Tech	64,168	84,513	Avitar Inc	558,925	548,353	Avitar Inc Wts A 96	217,890	217,890	Bio-Dyne Corp Wts 96	0	19,390	Bio-Imaging Wts G	24,360	200	Biocontrol Tech Inc	243,100	272,831	Biomechanics Corp Amer	164,719	97,524	Blue Dolphin Energy	27,704	6,704	Buffelsfontein ADR	27,541	6,249	CAPX Corp (Del)	107,311	71,889	CTEC Corp Cl B	27,854	46,626	Candy's Tortilla Fac	38,514	11,945	Capucino's Inc	41,100	0	Car Mart Inc Class A	19,122	452	Champions Sports Inc	308	206,143	City Investing Uts	250,000	250,232	Comparator Sys Corp	120,210	91,710	Compumed Inc	40,788	120,113	Comverse Tech Inc	29,426	600	Conquest Airlines	258,154	154,143	Cortex Pharm Inc	217,326	287,399	DRS Inds Inc Uts	47,166	0	De Beers Cons ADR	67,679	46,902	Denovo Corp	105,200	4,000	Diamond Enter Wts A	26,550	0	Diamond Entertain Corp	530,406	0	Dresdner Ag Sp ADR	564,188	541,838	Driefontein Cons ADR	10,163	31,415	Dynagen Inc	14,142	70,707	Eastco Ind Safety Corp	0	23,134	Education Alternativ	341,532	218,332	Elec Clearing House	6,269	28,379	Electro Brain Intl	23,852	0	Energy Conversion	98,455	76,787	Equity A U Inc	0	24,000	Europa Cruises Corp	123,895	20,750	Exploration Co The	20,000	0	Farmstead Teleph Wts	74,000	0	Fiberchem Inc	112,045	13,536	Finl Data Sys Wts B	19,400	0	Fisons Adr	321,091	115,907	Fonar Corporation	4,161	33,932	Fonic Inc	126,650	154,858	Fountain Pharm	60,332	162,789	Fountain Pharm Wts B	3,000	29,692	Free St Cons Gld ADR	41,293	68,679	Gaming Devices Fund	275,923	205,036	Gentner Commun Wts	17,359	170,025	Gracecare Hlth Sys	3,200	285,260	Heart Labs Amer Inc	30,500	N.L.	I Flow Corp Wts 95	545	27,488	IVF America Inc	20,000	N.L.	Imre Corp	93,164	3,990	Info Mgmt TechA	36,206	54,123	Innovet Inc	18,562	73,640	Invitro Intl	82,539	18,239	Jackpot Entertnmt Wt	36,796	65,632	LA Entertainment	550	35,000	Lancit Media Prod Wt	21,182	51,922	Lancit Media Wts 96	1,500	73,585	Licon Intl Inc	8,700	102,439	Lidak PharmA	44,439	75,524	Macland Inc	11,405	34,306	Main St & Main Inc	67,383	130,024	Managed Hlth Benefit	19,002	37,237	Marcum Natural Gs Ut	55,910	3,075	Margate Inds Inc	64,899	29,999	Mascott Corp	74,206	109,314	Medi Mail Inc	4,525	54,130	Members Service Corp	5,473	62,880	Metalclad Corp	309,796	210,588	Mgmt Tech Inc	230,600	120,637	Minorco ADR	42,105	72,044	Natec Resources Inc	206,586	209,969	Neolens Inc	259,345	252,991	Network Imaging Corp	0	45,602	News Commun Inc	22,304	0	+ Non Invasive Mon New	234,394	137	Ntwk Equip Tech Wts	22,500	0	Nytest Environmental	264,975	33,110	PDK Labs Wts 95	36,340	0	Patrick Pet Conv Pfd	25,000	N.L.	Phoenix Advance Tech	20,154	469	Plastigone Tech Wts	82,850	0	Playorena Inc	13,653	86,290	Princeton Dental	39,956	3,000	Pro-Dex Inc	5,200	77,973	Projectavision Inc	396,200	259,457	+ Quality Products New	36,812	2,893	Rentech Inc	36,458	10,000	Research Frontiers	8,925	40,130	Robern Apparel Wts A	27,025	0	Royce Laboratories	416,176	329,096	Ryka Inc	58,735	179,196	SA Hldgs Inc	90,058	0	SOI Inds	39,104	105	Sage Alerting System	2,000	65,490	Scorpion Tech Cl-A	24,863	47,272	Senetek Adr	323,500	312,000	Silverado Mines Ltd	13,600	31,588	Site Based Media Inc	581,622	876,946	Southland Corp	1,921,969	73,247	Sparta Surgical Corp	16,785	41,860	Sphinx Natural Res	48,137	0	St Helena Gold ADR	24,576	4,226	Topro Inc	57,224	13,800	Technology Res Wts A	21,679	138	Telefonos de Mexico	91,625	46,005	Teletek Inc	113,000	5,472	Telmed Inc	67,060	31,660	Therapeutic Tech	0	25,556	Total Research Corp	66,431	1,000	Touchstone Wts B 95	32,225	0	Trinity Cap Opp Wt A	11,774	34,541	Trinity Cap Oppty Co	39,986	106,792	Trinity Capital Wt B	98,725	143,754	US Pawn Inc	22,570	4,000	Unico Inc	4,900	46,200	VSI Enterprises	50,400	4,400	Valley Forge Sci Corp	284,580	312,807	Vector Aeromotive	5,328	29,296	Vimrx Pharm Inc	210,158	228,968	Vital Heart Sys Inc	251,115	238,140	Watson General Corp	173	20,438	Wavetech Inc	35,525	569	Whitman Medical Corp	51,900	5,000	Wisconsin Pharmacal	400,939	324,745	Zila Inc	70,300	126,372	
 
Short Interest Tables Explained
 These tables show issues with a short interest position in the current month of at least 200,000 shares or a change up or down from the previous month of at least 17,860 shares.
 Cover ratio represents the number of days, at average volume level, that it would take to purchase the number of shares sold short.
 T -- National Market System.
 N.L. -- Not listed.
 + -- Stock split.
 * May have been affected by arbitrage transactions resulting from any one or more of the following: proposed or pending acquisitions; convertible securities of the same company; rights offerings; stock splits or distributions; tenders; other special situations.
 Short interest may also be affected by options positions.
Underliningin the comprehensive table indicates a change of 75 percent or more from the previous month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SECURITIES DEALERS INC (91%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%); FLORIDA, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 1993



923 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: The Elvis Strategy

BYLINE: By Greil Marcus; Greil Marcus is author of "Dead Elvis: A Chronicle of a Cultural Obsession."

DATELINE: BERKELEY, Calif.

 BODY:
In no Presidential year has Elvis Presley been so inseparable from the action as in 1992.
Soon after the New Hampshire primary, the news media noted an odd phenomenon: interest in the Postal Service's Elvis-stamp election seemed to outstrip public concern for the primaries themselves. The intensity of the national joke-cum-struggle over the choice between the old and young Elvis revealed, among other things, a profound dissatisfaction with the candidates actually on view. The stamp election was more fun, and perhaps more meaningful, than the real one. Thus when Ross Perot emerged to fill the void Elvis's ghost had revealed, Mr. Perot was not only himself -- steely-eyed Mr. Fixit -- he was also the weirdest Elvis stand-in anyone had ever seen. 
 The weirdest, but not, in this political year, the most eager. Bill Clinton, a lifelong Elvis fan, won that prize. The press corps secretly called him "Elvis" -- "Elvis with a calculator" was one of the better variations. But by the end of the primary season, a wan version of the King's lazy grin seemed nearly all the candidate had left. When Governor Clinton sang a verse of "Don't Be Cruel" in a CNN interview, it sounded like a loser's plea.
Then came the great shift. Ross Perot decided not to run, George Bush went nowhere and Bill Clinton surged. In July, "Elvis Aron Presley" was listed in the party literature as the "Entertainment Coordinator" of the Democratic Convention. Al Gore told the convention it had always been his dream to come "to Madison Square Garden and be the warm-up act for Elvis."
The President's attacks were couched in bizarre Elvisisms: the Governor was on all sides of every issue. "He's been spotted in more places than Elvis Presley," Mr. Bush complained. "I guess you'd say his plan really is 'Elvis Economics,' " he continued: "America will be checking into the 'Heartbreak Hotel.' "
Despite Bill Clinton's growing lead, the President persisted into the fall. "I finally figured out why [Clinton] compares himself to Elvis," he said. "The minute he has to take a stand on something, he starts wiggling."
The tone was sour, like 1950's bluenoses sniffing at "Elvis the Pelvis." You could almost hear Elvis objecting. (He hated the word "wiggle.") Even Mr. Clinton finally felt free to join the conversation. "I don't think Bush would have liked Elvis very much," he said.
It was a charge the President couldn't pork rind, and it raised the question of why he would risk alienating working-class white Southerners with remarks that disparaged a cultural hero.
The simple answer is this: slap Elvis on anything and you'll be noticed. Elvis in a speech is a guaranteed sound bite on the evening news. But if Elvis is a hook, he -- or it -- is also a hook lodged in millions of hearts. You're guaranteed a response when you pull the Elvis cord, but there's no guarantee what the response will be.
For Mr. Bush, the invocation backfired. For Russell Feingold, the Democratic senatorial candidate in Wisconsin, it was a charm. The candidate's primary victory was due in large part to a TV ad featuring an Enquirer-style "Elvis Endorses Feingold" story. Last week in Milwaukee, Mr. Clinton endorsed Mr. Feingold, saying: "The real reason that I so deeply, deeply support him is that Elvis supports him."
And for Bill Clinton, Elvis clearly helped. After the primaries, when he had fallen drastically behind Mr. Bush and Mr. Perot, he took his saxophone onto "The Arsenio Hall Show" and blew "Heartbreak Hotel." That moment may have turned the race around. Mr. Clinton stepped forward as if to say: All right. Who cares. Let's rip it up.
For the first time in the campaign Bill Clinton was more Elvis than calculator. The spirit of freedom in Elvis's best music is a freedom of self-discovery -- and that night Bill Clinton accepted the gift. Playing the old song as best he could, he was more fan than star, more himself than Elvis, but perhaps just Elvis enough.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER INC (53%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK (53%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP (53%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN LP (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; PUBLIC OPINION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (73%); POSTAL SERVICE (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (64%); 

PERSON: MARCUS, GREIL; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); PRESLEY, ELVIS (1935-77) BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1992



924 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Democrats;
Clinton, Gazing Beyond Nov. 3, Outlines Vision

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LAFAYETTE, La., Oct. 27

 BODY:
As his opponents continued to squabble, Gov. Bill Clinton sought higher ground for his campaign today, describing in sweeping terms the tone and priorities he would bring to the White House.
"The important thing is, what are we going to do after the election," he said in Augusta, Ga., on the first stop of a Southern swing. "Because after the election, there'll be no charges to answer, nobody to make fun of, only the American people, their problems and their promise out there. 
 "And the issue is, what are we going to do to move our country forward and lift our country up," Mr. Clinton said. "That is why I got into this race."
 
Out of the Cross-Fire
 The tone of Mr. Clinton's remarks, which came on a day that he was taking his campaign to the formerly Republican bastions of Georgia, Florida and Louisiana, reflected his strategists' view that he needed to distance himself from the cross-fire between President Bush and Ross Perot.
"I did not enter this race for President to run my opponents down," he said at rallies in Augusta and Tampa. "I entered this race to lift the American people up."
Mr. Clinton has been wary of seeming to claim the Presidential mantle prematurely, and with his speech today he undertook the difficult task of casting himself as the best choice without seeming to overreach. In what amounted to a balancing act, he mixed attacks on Mr. Bush with optimistic descriptions of how a Democratic Administration would bring about authentic change.
 
The First Priorities
 Mr. Clinton said his first priorities as President would be ending trickle-down economics, reining in health- care costs and pushing through legislation on tuition aid, job leaves for workers' family emergencies, toughened child-support regulations and community "boot camps" for first-time criminal offenders.
He said the ideas he was proposing would not be cost free, and he voiced some caution as he presented sweeping plans that he asserted would change the way business was done in Washington.
In describing the outlines of a new Administration, Mr. Clinton reiterated much of what he has described in policy speeches all year.
By turning his sights beyond next week's general election, Mr. Clinton was reaching for a message that had enough energy to carry his candidacy through the final week but was at the same time free of risks.
 
6 States in 2 Days
 In the next two days, he will have chances to deliver the message to voters in Houston; Jackson, Miss.; Louisville; Toledo, Ohio; Detroit, and Secaucus, N.J.
Moreover, his campaign began broadcasting a new television commercial that set a similar tone, pointing to the business executives and scholars who had endorsed him and his proposals.
As Mr. Clinton outlined his programs today, focusing heavily on domestic concerns and making virtually no reference to foreign policy, he also contrasted his plan with the record of President Bush.
"This is an Administration divided against itself with no firm convictions, in total disarray," he said at an afternoon rally in downtown Tampa, Fla. "Can you believe what's going on in Washington? It's sort of like reading the comic strips on the front page every day now."
Ross Perot's independent candidacy received scarcely a mention from Mr. Clinton in his speeches, and his aides said they plan for it to stay this way.
"While the other candidates are tearing each other down, he wants to spell out in clear terms his plan to lift the country up," said Bruce Reed, Mr. Clinton's policy director. "When voters go into polls next Tuesday, he wants them to know that America is going to change in real, concrete ways if they cast votes for him."
 
Meets Cuban Leader
 At each rally today, Mr. Clinton's supporters broke into chants of "One more week!" The chanting, which Mr. Clinton encouraged, also served to drown out the cries of the pockets of Bush-Quayle protesters who show up at every Clinton event.
He denied that he was campaigning a region that was strongly for Mr. Bush in 1988 simple to keep his opponent off balance. "I'm trying to win the South," he said.
To that end, Mr. Clinton met briefly with the Cuban exile leader Jorge Mas Canosa and with Representative Dante B. Fascell, Democrat of Florida, chairman of the House Foreign Relations Committee, at the Tampa International Airport.
Mr. Clinton said he and Mr. Mas had not discussed politics but had talked about Mr. Clinton's support of the Cuban-American Democracy Bill, which tightens the United States's economic embargo against Cuba. Mr. Bush signed the legislation last week, and Mr. Mas said he would vote for Mr. Bush. Mr. Mas is chairman of the influential Cuban American National Foundation, a 54,000-member lobbying group. Cuban-Americans have voted overwhelmingly Republican in the past.
Mr. Clinton is hoping for victories in several Southern states next week. It would be especially damaging for Mr. Bush if he lost in Florida and Texas, where Mr. Clinton will visit Wednesday.
This year's election, he said, in his policy address today, will be a referendum on Americans' willingness to change the course of their futures by being "more than spectators" in the political process.
 
'My Fellow Americans'
 "This year, when the history of this election is written, it will not be about politics and manipulation," Mr. Clinton said. "It will be about how the American people took charge of their future again."
Mr. Clinton, who has recently begun addressing his supporters as "my fellow Americans," is making an especially energetic pitch in Florida, where Democratic officials crowded onto the stage to be seen with him today.
"Four years ago, Florida gave George Bush an enormous majority, more than than 60 perent of the vote," Mr. Clinton said. "Since then, unemployment has gone up, airline companies based in Florida have been bankrupted, the elderly people have seen no attempt to control health-care costs, and every attempt to do it has been by cutting Medicare to those least able to pay.
"The economy of Florida is in a shambles, and yet they say if there's one big state in America that we can depend upon, its Florida -- they're just knee-jerk and vote Republican," Mr. Clinton said, prompting boos from his Democratic loyalists.
Lieut. Gov. Buddy McKay, the chairman of the Florida Democratic Party, said the presence of so many elected officials eager to bask in the free exposure drawn by a Presidential frontrunner, was proof of how well Mr. Clinton was doing here.
"We all know he is coattails," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. Bill Clinton applauding Allison Jones as she sang the national anthem at a rally in Augusta, Ga. Later the cheering went Mr. Clinton's way as supporters listened to him on a stop in Tampa, Fla. (Photographs by Lee Romero/The New York Times) (pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUGUSTA, GA, USA (91%); TAMPA, FL, USA (90%); JACKSON, MS, USA (79%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC ADMINISTRATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC ADMINISTRATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FLORIDA; GEORGIA UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); AUGUSTA, GA, USA (91%); TAMPA, FL, USA (90%); JACKSON, MS, USA (79%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; CUBAN-AMERICANS POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TUITION FEES (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); EXECUTIVES (67%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (63%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (62%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); PEROT, ROSS; IFILL, GWEN; MAS CANOSA, JORGE BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1992



925 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Republicans;
Bush Uses Latest Economic Figure to Support His Assertion of a Recovery

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: KETTERING, Ohio, Oct. 27

 BODY:
Searching for ways to undermine Gov. Bill Clinton's appeal to recession-weary voters, President Bush today eagerly seized on an increase in economic growth to proclaim that the American economy is growing and "will lead the world to recovery."
Mr. Bush spent most of the day steering away for from the feud that erupted over the weekend with Ross Perot over campaign dirty tricks, although he did keep the dispute alive early in day when he referred to Mr. Perot's accusations as "crazy" on national television. 
 Instead, the President kept his fire trained on his Democratic opponent as he campaigned through economically troubled areas where he is trailing badly in public opinion polls.
Mr. Bush suggested that the 2.7 percent increase in the gross domestic product announced today undermined Mr. Clinton's campaign of change, and he presented the news as evidence to allay voters' doubts about his own economic stewardship.
"Two-point-seven percent is darn good growth and it pulls the rug out from under Mr. Clinton, who's telling everybody how horrible everything is," Mr. Bush said in a televised session with voters that was broadcast across Kentucky this afternoon.
"We have now had six straight quarters of growth in the United States," he said. "And yet the Democrats keep telling us that everything is going to hell. And they're wrong. They are wrong."
 
Bush Predicts Recovery
 At Paducah Community College in Paducah, Ky., addressing more than 10,000 cheering and flag-waving supporters at his largest and most enthusiastic rally in days, Mr. Bush shouted, "We're moving and we're going to lead the world to recovery."
By this evening, Mr. Bush, making a final push that will focus on the Midwest for the next few days, including a train trip through Wisconsin on Saturday, had warmed to his attack on Mr. Clinton's favorite theme.
"Change. Change. Change. Change. Change," he chanted derisively at a rally here.
The President pointedly avoided referring to other, less heartening statistics published today, including the smallest increase in wages in five years and the lowest level of consumer confidence in eight months.
He stayed away from other bad news, trying to get past his feud with Ross Perot over the independent's accusations of Republican "dirty tricks." Mr. Bush said he thought the episode was "strange," but his aides have concluded that Mr. Perot's charges hurt the Republican campaign, and the President clearly did not want to talk about them anymore.
Rather, for Mr. Bush, as he stumped through a spectacular day in autumn-painted districts in Iowa, Kentucky and Ohio, it was time to search for good news and for silver linings.
He trumpeted the economic figures at each stop. He invited a reporter from USA Today aboard Air Force One for his first interview with a nationally circulated newspaper in four months after hearing that the newspaper had a poll showing the race tightening.
And in an interview from Des Moines on NBC's "Today" program, Mr. Bush seemed confident, almost serene. When his interviewer noted that polls still gave Mr. Clinton a substantial lead, Mr. Bush said, "Well, that might be right, see, but I think that's no hill for a climber, at the end here."
After refusing at first to respond to a series of questions about whether he ever thought about losing, Mr. Bush offered this almost wistful discussion of the benefits of retiring from the White House:
"Some day I won't be President, and that day doesn't worry me one single bit. I'm going to get big into the grandchild business. I'm going to get big in the golf business. I'm going to tell my handlers, who will be gone, they'll be vanished, don't worry about it. If I want to be out on a boat, whether there's a war on or something else, I know what I'm doing, and forget about it all."
Not wanting to leave anyone with the impression that he was anything but confident about his re-election, Mr. Bush added hastily, "But that's going to be five years from now, not one."
In his quest to provide reasons why voters should re-elect him, Mr. Bush also suggested, in the familiar rambling way that often reveals much about his mood, that as a lame duck, he could operate without thought to politics.
"I will be re-elected and not have any politics on the horizon -- no more -- no more campaigns, no more debates, thank God," he said as he began his day in Des Moines by taking questions from a screened group of supporters.
The questioning was so gentle and so evidently orchestrated by local political aides that Mr. Bush seemed to grow embarrassed.
When a teen-ager asked him how Arkansas ranked in various economic areas, Mr. Bush said: "Hey, good question. That's what we call a -- we call that -- in the World Series every once in a while you see the seams on it when it comes over the plate, the slow ball -- you know what I mean."
Mr. Bush combined the more upbeat tone of his remarks with a continuation of his increasingly peppery attack on Mr. Clinton.
Asked in Des Moines how Mr. Clinton could execute his plans to raise taxes on the most wealthy Americans and significantly increase Government spending, Mr. Bush retorted, "We don't have anybody dumb enough to figure it out."
He assailed Mr. Clinton as lacking any experience on foreign policy. Referring to his family's dog, Mr. Bush said, "Clinton and Gore, they've got about as much foreign policy experience as Millie, put together."
The Bush campaign prepared to broadcast a new 30-second advertisement on Wednesday that may be its toughest attack yet on Mr. Clinton's record as Governor of Arkansas. With black-and-white photographs of stormy weather in the background, the announcer says, "In his 12 years as Governor, Bill Clinton has doubled his state's debt, doubled government spending and signed the largest tax increase in his state's history."
Faced with the success of Mr. Perot's 30- and 60-minute paid political programs, the Bush campaign today began broadcasting a series of two-minute television commercials. The first shows the President speaking to a group of people about the tough decisions he makes as commander in chief.
 
Issue of Character
 While making no direct reference to Mr. Clinton, Mr. Bush raises the issue of character. "All of you know that the Presidency is the most serious job in the world," he tells the group. "And we simply cannot put America's future at risk with a person who is wrong for the job, and with policies that are wrong for America."
Appearing on the NBC program "Today" this morning from Des Moines, Mr. Bush joined in the attack on Mr. Perot that had been begun by his staff, but in a more restrained manner.
Asked about Mr. Perot's accusations of dirty tricks, Mr. Bush said, "I agree that this recent incident is crazy."
He declined to say whether Mr. Perot's contentions were evidence of a temperament inappropriate for the Presidency. "I'm not here to characterize Ross Perot," he said, adding: "I want to concentrate on Governor Clinton. I believe that's the main opponent. I'm not going to stand out here, waste my time analyzing this problem."
 

GRAPHIC: Photo: In the Des Moines Civic Center in Iowa, President Bush spoke with supporters before leaving for Kentucky. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times) (pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: USA TODAY (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (GNP); RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); RECESSION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); PEROT, ROSS; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); ROSENTHAL, ANDREW GEORGE W BUSH (93%); BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1992



926 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-13
 
CANADIANS GROPE FOR SOLUTION
News analysis: The voters' rejection of a constitutional reform plan leaves Canada still groping for a solution to its most longstanding problem: reconciling French-speaking Quebec with the English-speaking rest of the country. A1
 
BEGGING TO LEAVE SARAJEVO
Huddles of desperate people gather each day at the United Nations building in Sarajevo to plead for help in escaping the besieged city. But only a tiny minority get seats on departing relief planes. A1 

The U.N. escorts Croatian refugees to the rubble of their village. A9
 
SALVADOR RESISTS REBEL PARTY
A day after rebels endorsed a United Nations demobilization plan, El Salvador's rightist ruling party moved to block the transformation of rebel armies into a political party. A13
 
MAKING IT UP TO THE QUEEN
After months of furor over the personal problems of her children, Queen Elizabeth's friends and supporters treated her to a grand celebration of the 40th anniversary of her accession to the throne. A10
 
ISRAELI TANKS MOVE NORTH
The Israeli Army massed tanks for a possible move across the border into Lebanon as its planes and artillery pounded targets there. A3
 
TENSE CONFRONTATION IN RUSSIA
President Yeltsin called for the disbanding of a newly founded opposition group made up of ultra-nationalists and old-guard Communists. Some suspect the group of plotting a constitutional coup. A5
 
A pristine Russian peninsula opens warily to outsiders. A4
 
U.N.'S SOMALIA ENVOY RESIGNS
The senior United Nations representative in Somalia submitted his resignation in a dispute over his criticism of delays in famine relief. A6
 
Citing a Slovak dam, Czechoslovakia Cabinet talks of resigning. A11
 
National A14-18, B9
 
THE ECONOMY SPURTS
The Government reported that the gross domestic product grew at a surprisingly brisk pace of 2.7 percent in the July-September quarter. President Bush said the development was proof that the economy was finally shaking off its lethargy, a view disputed by the Democrats. A1, A16
 
PRESIDENT CLINTON
The Democratic nominee sought to wrap the cloak of inevitability around his campaign by describing in sweeping terms the tone and the priorities he would bring to the White House. A1
 
Clinton's powerful campaign weapon: his mother. A16
 
Marilyn Quayle has continued to embrace her favored themes. A18
 
On the Trail: Bush and the bad guys of the news media. A16
 
THE TWO ROSS PEROTS
The question confronting his organization now is, Which media image of Ross Perot will prevail? Will it be the Ross Perot of news accounts, who has been badly damaged by his complaint of Republican dirty tricks, or the Ross Perot of his own, enormously expensive television advertising campaign? A1
 
New questions were raised on Perot's smear-tactic account. A17
 
In Michigan, Perot has been gaining dramatically. A18
 
A CAMPAIGN WITHOUT LIMELIGHT
This year there is a third-party candidate who is securely listed on the ballots of all 50 states. No, not that one, the one who has actually gone out campaigning among the people every day for a year without benefit of fortune, fame or faux pas. It's Andre Marrou, nominee of the Libertarian Party. A1
 
A MORE INCLUSIVE DEFINING OF AIDS
The Centers for Disease Control proposed a new AIDS definition that is expected to almost double the number of cases reported next year by including many more women and drug abusers. B9
 
DIOXIN BURNING IS SET
After years of community strife and scientific dispute, Arkansas environmental officials gave final approval to the largest project ever undertaken in the United States to burn chemical wastes contaminated with dioxin. The incinerator that will be used is expected to emit 150 to 800 grams of dioxin into the air over the next two to three months. A14
 
THE NEW ROAD HAZARD
Car thieves, robbers and even rapists and murderers are turning with increasing frequency to suburban and rural highways to find their victims. A14
 
NEW CHARGES ON IRAQI WEAPONS
The chairman of the House Banking Committee said the Commerce Department had approved the exporting of American computers and missile-design software that were ultimately used to develop the high-powered Iraqi "Supergun." A15
 
A bill on abortions at overseas military hospitals is before Bush. B9
 
Education Page B10
 
Thomas H. Kean, former Governor, now college president: what next?
 
The pros and cons of school choice provoke pre-election debate.
 
Campus Journal: Temple has a course on aliens and U.F.O.'s.
 
Metro Digest B1
 
POLL SHOWS CLOSE SENATE RACE
A week before Election Day, the New York Senate race is a tossup between Alfonse M. D'Amato and Robert Abrams, according to a new statewide New York Times poll. Nearly one-quarter of voters said they were still undecided, an unusually high percentage this late in a race, and an apparent sign of dissatisfaction with both candidates. A1
 
'CRASH AND CARRY GANG'
From the time they were teen-agers until their early 30's, the authorities said they would crash into a fur salon or a jewelry store, an art gallery or a warehouse. As glass rained down, they would snatch as many items as they could: mink coats, paintings, compact disks. Now, 14 people have been indicted on charges of being members of that gang. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Living Section C1-10
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-20
 
Sports B11-16
 
Obituaries D21
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A20-21
 
Editorials
 
Federal Bureau of Temptation.
Canada, still divided.
Coming soon: the Vietnam peace.
For Congress from New York.
 
Letters
 
Anna Quindlen: Putting hatred to a vote.
 
George F. Kennan: The G.O.P. won the cold war? Ridiculous.
 
Robert Coover: A natural history of Presidents.
 
Earl Shorris: Latino, si. Hispanic, no.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); CANADA (93%); ISRAEL (92%); SOMALIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); LEBANON (79%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (91%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); CANADA (93%); ISRAEL (92%); SOMALIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); LEBANON (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ELECTION LAW (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BRITISH MONARCHS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); ARMIES (75%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); COUPS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); REFUGEES (72%); FAMINE (70%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); RESIGNATIONS (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (62%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (71%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1992



927 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: Perot Spending More on Ads Than Any Candidate Before

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH KOLBERT

 BODY:
Since re-entering the Presidential race at the beginning of the month, Ross Perot has embarked on what is likely to prove to be, week by week, the most expensive political advertising campaign in the history of the country.
In the first two weeks of this month, Mr. Perot spent $24 million on commercials. According to campaign disclosures received Monday by the Federal Election Commission, he spent almost $10.8 million over the next 10days. On Monday night alone, he spent almost $1 million for an hourlong paid program on ABC. 
 If Mr. Perot's advertising budget were annualized, it would exceed that of companies like Chrysler and RJR Nabisco.
But as other independently wealthy Presidential candidates have proved, outspending one's opponents, and even outspending big, multinational corporations, is not necessarily the most effective way to get to the Oval Office. And ever since Sunday night, when Mr. Perot told "60 Minutes" on CBS that he had dropped out of the race because of tips that Republican "dirty tricksters" were planning to disrupt his daughter's wedding, the news about Mr. Perot has provided a distinctly unflattering contrast to his advertising.
Now the main question seems to be which media image will prevail: the Ross Perot of the news stories ("Paranoid!" "Loony!"), or the Ross Perot of the advertisements (down-to-earth, sober, pragmatic).
 
Rule of Advertising
 "The rule is your advertising and your free media have to get out a coordinated message," said Darrell West, a professor of political science at Brown University. "That's not happening with Ross Perot. The problem is the interpretation that went out on the news is this guy is paranoid."
Aides to both Gov. Bill Clinton and President Bush were visibly relieved when Mr. Perot began to make news that conflicted with his high-rolling ad campaign. But both sides also said it would be foolhardy to underestimate the influence of tens of millions of dollars worth of advertising in the last days of the campaign.
"I think his advertising will have an impact," said Sig Rogich, head of the Bush ad campaign. "Plus, I happen to think his ads are pretty good."
While they are trying to sort out the impact of Mr. Perot's unusual accusations and the Bush campaign's denials, and are relying on polls that still suggest a race in flux, both the President and the Arkansas Governor seem to be having trouble settling on an end-game ad strategy.
The Bush campaign has produced a new two-minute ad that focuses on the President's qualifications, but has also produced a new ad attacking Mr. Clinton's record in Arkansas. The Clinton campaign, in the meantime, is planning a new ad in which Nobel Prize-winning economists praise the Governor's economic plans.
Because it often takes a few days for the latest news to be felt in the polls, it is still too early to tell which image of Mr. Perot is winning. But both Democratic and Republican campaign officials say their latest tracking polls suggest that support for Mr. Perot, who had been gaining about a point a day since the last Presidential debate, on Oct. 19, seems to have leveled off.
For his part, though, Mr. Perot is pouring money into his campaign at an unprecedented rate. Last Wednesday alone, Mr. Perot added $4.5 million to his campaign treasury and the next day he added another $2.85 million.
Responding to a question this morning on the NBC program "Today," Mr. Bush said he found it "a little bizarre" how much Mr. Perot was spending on his campaign."
The President added: "But put it this way. Don't worry about him. He's got plenty left."
Probably the most extraordinary aspect of Mr. Perot's advertising campaign has been his half-hour paid programs, which have consistently drawn the kind of audiences that would make many sit-com producers jealous. On Monday, Mr. Perot's hour-long presentation on ABC, which included a half hour conversation with his family that had run once before, attracted 12 million viewers. This was significantly fewer than CBS's "Evening Shade" and NBC's "Fresh Prince of Bel Air" at the same time, but enough to confound many analysts.
Between now and Election day, Mr. Perot has purchased seven more half-hours of network time, at a cost of several million dollars.
At the same time, though, the unconventional independent candidate has also been spending heavily on highly conventional 30- and 60-second commercials. And in addition to buying commercial time on the networks, he has recently begun more selective local television and radio buys.
Much of Mr. Perot's local advertising is in California, where Mr. Clinton enjoys a wide lead in the polls and where neither the Bush campaign nor the Clinton campaign is on the air. In Los Angeles, for instance, Mr. Perot is spending at least $750,000 on local television, according the figures obtained from the three network affiliates there In San Diego and San Francisco, he is spending another $600,000 on television.
In New York City, in contrast, he is spending much less. Two of the network affiliates and Channel 5, the local Fox station, reported that he had purchased about $180,000 in ad time, compared with Mr. Clinton, who had purchased $2 million worth of time on the three stations and Mr. Bush who had purchased slightly over $1 million. While New York State is considered by most analysts to be in Mr. Clinton's column, the Bush campaign considers itself competitive in New Jersey and Connecticut, in the same television market.
Mr. Perot's latest advertisements are clearly aimed at countering the perception that a vote for him would be a wasted vote. In the ads, Mr. Perot inverts the concept and urges voters not to waste their votes on the two major parties.
In one radio ad, for example, Mr. Perot talks about one of his favorite subjects, former government officials who lobby for foreign countries, then an announcer says, "This is no time to waste our vote on politics as usual." In another radio commercial, he lists statistics about crime, job losses and growth in the national debt -- all for one day. Again the announcer says, "This is no time to waste our vote."
In a new television ad, Mr. Perot warns voters against listening to the press and the major parties. "The closer we get to the election, the more people will be telling you how to vote," he says. "The press. The polls. The parties. They're all counting your vote before you even leave your house on Nov. 3. I'm not going to tell you how to vote. That's wrong. But you ought to vote for what you believe in, and you know that's right."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (57%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KRAFT NABISCO (57%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (57%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (57%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA UNITED STATES (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; FINANCES; TELEVISION MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); POLITICS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%); NOBEL PRIZES (60%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (54%); 

PERSON: PEROT, ROSS; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); KOLBERT, ELIZABETH BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1992



928 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky Journal;
Russia Permits Just a Peek at Nature in the Raw

BYLINE: By CELESTINE BOHLEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PETROPAVLOVSK-KAMCHATSKY, Russia

 BODY:
Ever since Czar Aleksandr II sold Alaska to the Americans, Kamchatka has been Russia's easternmost frontier -- a peninsula roughly the size of Montana, with snow-tipped volcanoes, sputtering geysers and miles of untouched birch forests that turn amber in the fading light of autumn.
Here, nine time zones away from Moscow, nature is still undefeated, in contrast to the rest of Russia, where the environment was regularly sacrificed to the reckless god of industrial development. On Kamchatka, the rivers are still clean enough for freshwater crayfish and spawning salmon, while in winter the snow in its volcanic craters is so white that local people describe it as almost blue. 
 In the Soviet era, Kamchatka's pristine beauty was kept off limits by a military that jealously guarded its strategic location on the northern Pacific. Foreigners were barred, and even Soviet citizens had to get special permission to travel here.
"Kamchatka is still terra incognita for the rest of the world," said Sergei A. Alekseyev, director of the Kronotsky Nature Reserve, in the heart of Kamchatka. Besides 22 volcanoes and a population of bears, sables, otters, sea eagles and white falcons, the reserve boasts a Valley of Geysers, where underground thermal springs come burbling and gushing out of the rocks like potions from a mad chemist's laboratory.
In the last year, Kamchatka has opened itself up to outsiders, joining in the nationwide scramble for a magic formula that will lure foreign investment without any sacrifice of local interests. For better or for worse, all that Kamchatka really has to offer is what nature gave it. The trick, local people say, is not to abuse this gift.
 
A Hardship Post
 But the pressure is on. The local government has already opened bidding to develop the mining of gold, while the peninsula's west coast is dotted with oil wells that were drilled to see whether the rich finds off Sakhalin Island extend eastward into the Sea of Okhotsk.
These are difficult times for the 370,000 people on Kamchatka, of whom 250,000 live in the city of Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky, an old and dingy military and fishing port that until recently could not receive foreign ships. Workers here still get special bonuses for living in a hardship region. But these benefits, which can increase salaries by 80 to 160 percent, are being whittled away by Russia's roaring inflation rate, made worse here by the high cost of transport.
At the Kronotsky Reserve, Mr. Alekseyev is making do with one-half of the 7.5 million rubles promised him this year by the central Government in Moscow, even as he struggles to pay the 50,000-rubles-an-hour bill for the helicopters that bring his staff of 40 rangers and 13 researchers in and out of the wilderness.
To make ends meet, Mr. Alekseyev has given approval for a form of "eco-tourism" on the Kronotsky domain. For a share of the profits, the reserve has given an exclusive contract to a local company, Sogzhoy, which offers helicopter tours to the Valley of the Geysers three times a week, available to customers with dollars at $250 for a round trip.
This year, about 2,000 people were flown in and out of the Valley of Geysers, the limit considered manageable by environmentalists here and in Moscow. To handle the tourists, a wooden walkway was built around the valley's rim for prime viewing of the geysers, the biggest of which spouts 191-degree water 131 feet in the air every eight hours.
But that is it: Kronotsky may stoop to tourism, but Mr. Alekseyev has vowed never to allow refreshment stands, postcard vendors or the kind of backpacking trekkers that throng America's national parks.
"We absolutely need to keep some places on the planet untouched, so they can serve as a benchmark for natural preservation," he said. "But the situation is such today that we have to find a compromise."
In his quest for the balance between nature's needs and human curiosity, Mr. Alekseyev has been in contact with experts at Yellowstone National Park, the only place in the world that has more geysers than Kamchatka.
The Kronotsky reserve dates from 1802, when czarist authorities barred sable-hunters from the region. From 1964 to 1976, the reserve was opened to visiting dignitaries and high-ranking Soviet officials, and to geologists who came in search of oil reserves. They found oil and left, but in the process tore up miles of delicate permafrost, or tundra, that has yet to fully recover.
Given the vast amount of wilderness available in the rest of Kamchatka, the Kronotsky reserve is not likely now to be on any prospectors' maps. In fact, in Moscow, the Ministry of the Environment is now trying to include the region on the international register of wilderness reserves, as a kind of safeguard against future meddling.
But Mr. Alekseyev worries now not just about the nature preserve, but about Kamchatka as a whole.
"There are still people who think of this as a huge country with unlimited resources, even though we have already seen much of Russia turned into an ecological desert," he said. "They say they want to develop with clean technology, but there is evidence of what miners do. Look at Alaska, look at Colorado."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The pristine beauty of Kamchatka was kept off limits for years as the Soviet Union's easternmost frontier was jealously guarded as a strategic location. In the last year, Kamchatka has opened itself up to outsiders, joining in the nationwide scramble for a magic formula that will lure foreign investment. (Otto Pohl for The New York Times)
 
Map showing the location of the Kamchatka Peninsula.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: POG (LSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (85%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (85%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: PETROPAVLOVSK PLC (85%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; KAMCHATKA PENINSULA (RUSSIA); RUSSIA; PETROPAVLOVSK-KAMCHATSKY (RUSSIA) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); WEST USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS FORESTS & WOODLANDS (77%); ECOTOURISM (77%); MARINE MAMMALS (76%); MAMMALS (76%); FISHES (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); APPROVALS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); TRENDS (65%); OIL EXTRACTION (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); INFLATION (60%); HELICOPTERS (50%); 

PERSON: BOHLEN, CELESTINE SERGEI A ALEKSEYEV (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1992



929 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: From Warm Letters to Cold Warring, Romance Fades

BYLINE: By MELINDA HENNEBERGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEWBURGH, N.Y., Oct. 21

 BODY:
With flowers in hand, Donald Davis, a 54-year-old Orange County truck driver, went to the airport last month to meet his fiancee.
It was the first time he had set eyes on Natalya Sadchikova, a 42-year-old woman he had seen in a catalogue of prospective mail-order brides from the former Soviet Union -- the dreamy, downtrodden Natasha whose poetic letters had charmed him during their two-year correspondence. They shook hands and he brought her home, along with her 3-year-old daughter, Alina. 
 A month later, Ms. Sadchikova and her daughter are in a Newburgh homeless shelter. Mr. Davis seems to be in shock.
"It was a complete disaster, not a minor but a major disaster," said Mr. Davis -- one of the few points on which he and Ms. Sadchikova are in agreement.
 
A Growing Marriage Market
 Since the collapse of the former Soviet Union, thousands of Russian women like Ms. Sadchikova have added their names to the rosters of a growing number of marriage brokers, who they hope will find them American husbands.
Immigration and State Department officials who have noted the recent influx said they have no numbers, but lawyers, social workers and travel agents say as many as 100 Russian women have come to New York to marry their pen pals in the last year.
"There are more and more coming in through the bridal agencies that have mushroomed," said Olga Roussanow, senior counselor for immigration benefits at the Tolstoy Foundation in Manhattan. "It's very risky," she said, but because of the economic hardships that draw a number of the women here, "these people are not afraid."
Ms. Roussanow said many were eventually sent back to Russia after culture clashes that end in romantic fiascos -- which would be an understated description of the short-lived relationship between Ms. Sadchikova and Mr. Davis.
 
'Like a Little Puppy'
 By his account, her daughter kept him up nights crying and lost severaltreasured possessions, including a Rolex watch the little girl had adopted as a toy. His intended, he said, complained constantly about American food, grew suspicious when he took a shower before going to work, and became enraged when he talked on the telephone with his 87-year-old mother, who had been hit by a bus.
He claims that Ms. Sadchikova pretended to be pregnant with his child -- before he broke the news that he'd had a vasectomy. And he says she propositioned his 27-year-old son.
Ms. Sadchikova denies most of Mr. Davis's account; she says her daughter does cry a lot. She maintains that the relationship failed for far less dramatic reasons: because Mr. Davis was impatient with her child, with her faulty English and with the fact that she had to have everything explained to her.
"I think we are like a little puppy you see on the street," she said. "You say, 'Oh, poor little puppy, no one loves him. I take him home.' Then in home he makes wet on the floor, he wants food and play, and you put the puppy back in the street."
She fled from Mr. Davis's home in Washingtonville to the shelter here, she said, to avoid being deposited on the streets of Brighton Beach in Brooklyn, where many Russian immigrants live. Mr. Davis said he planned to take her to Brighton Beach only because she had asked him to.
Before the outbreak of their own personal cold war -- that is, before they ever met -- both had been full of hope that they might build a new life together.
"He write, 'I love you, I need you.' They were good letters," she said. "I'm romantic; I dreamed to look at the world and he write me about nature, about his love to his sons, about traveling. I think this man must be good."
She was thinking, too, about finding a way out of her hometown of Vladivostok, on Russia's East Coast on the Sea of Japan, where a crumbling economy had made life difficult and where work as a freelance photographer was increasingly hard to find. Her husband of 15 years, who could not have children, she said, had divorced her after she decided to have another man's child.
And she was more than ready for a fresh start. "Every marriage is like a song," she said. "You sing it and it's finished. You begin another song." Not long after Alina was born, she sent her picture to Scanna International, a pioneer in the matchmaking industry, which set up an office in Vladivostok in 1989.
 
$10 an Address
 A Scanna representative in Pittsford, N.Y., where the company is based, said Russian women have become the mainstay of its business in the years since the former Soviet Union liberalized its immigration policies. About 5,000 American men are looking for Russian brides through Scanna alone, according to the representative, who claims that the agency has listings for 20,000 Russian women.
Other bridal agencies that once dealt primarily with Asian women have shifted their focus to Russia, and a number of new agencies have opened, advertising in publications like The Russian Daily and The Village Voice.
Every two weeks, Scanna publishes a catalogue that sells for $5 and includes the photographs and brief biographies of 200 new women. The address of a woman in the catalogue costs an additional $10 -- or $7 each with the purchase of 10 or more.
After two failed marriages, Mr. Davis said he turned to the catalogue as a way of placing a kind of international personal ad. And the idea of rescuing a woman from hardship appealed to Mr. Davis, who describes himself as the kind of person who can't pass a guy with a sign that says "Will Work for Food" without stopping to help.
"You start out with the fantasy that you might meet someone," he said. Soon, he began writing Ms. Sadchikova. He was captivated by the lyrical, philosophical turns in the broken syntax of her letters and moved to compassion by her stories of deprivation in Russia. "Once she wrote me, 'Have you ever looked into the eyes of a genius and wondered what was in his mind?' " he said. "To me she was a very sensitive person."
She also sent him another picture of herself. "It is not so good looking," she said. "I want him to see the truth."
Unlike most Scanna clients, Mr. Davis ignored the advice of the agency, which strongly recommends that prospective bridegrooms travel to Russia to spend extended vacations with their correspondents before bringing them to this country.
To get what is known as a fiancee visa, which gives the immigrant 90 days to marry or leave the country, the couple must have already met. But to get a six-month visitor's visa, like Ms. Sadchikova's, an applicant must have only an invitation -- and convincing proof that she plans to return to Russia.
Most couples work with an immigration lawyer like Larry Holmes of San Diego, who for the last 18 months has specialized in bringing Russian brides to this country through several agencies -- and he insists that in most cases the matches have produced happy marriages.
"My clients all tell me the same thing," he said. "They think American women are spoiled and Russian women aren't. They're the more old-fashioned type of girls."
Mr. Holmes, who is careful to say that this is not his personal opinion, said: "They all tell me that they are sick and tired of the princess attitude of American women."
But some men like Mr. Davis prefer to close the deal themselves.
Last summer, Mr. Davis sent Ms. Sadchikova the invitation.
Almost immediately after posting the invitation, he said, he began to get cold feet. But when he received a telegram that Ms. Sadchikova was already in Moscow with the visitor's visa in hand, he sent two plane tickets, costing $780, to her and her daughter.
And he would now gladly pay for two return tickets, he said. But Ms. Sadchikova has another five months before her visa expires and plans to spend that time trying to find another way to stay here.
Despite recent events, "I am like Alyssa in country magic" in the United States, she said, referring perhaps to Alice in Wonderland. "Maybe I find another husband."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Natalya Sadchikova and her daughter, Alina, look out the window of a Newburgh, N.Y., homeless shelter. Ms. Sadchikova is one of nearly 100 Russian women who came to New York to marry pen pals in the last year. Her marriage plans, like many arranged by brokers, have changed because of cultural clashes. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); RUSSIA UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MARRIAGES; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS; MAIL ORDER COMPANIES MARRIAGE (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); IMMIGRATION (66%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (57%); HOMELESSNESS (55%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (55%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (55%); TRAVEL AGENTS (51%); 

PERSON: HENNEBERGER, MELINDA; SADCHIKOVA, NATALYA DONALD DAVIS (94%); NATALYA SADCHIKOVA (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1992



930 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Independent;
Perot Aides Try to End Story But President Keeps It Alive

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DALLAS, Oct. 27

 BODY:
Ross Perot's top campaign aides tried diligently today to put an end to stories about his unsubtantiated accusations of Republican dirty tricks, but President Bush kept the story alive by calling Mr. Perot's charges "crazy" and "strange."
At a news briefing at Perot headquarters here, Sharon Holman, Mr. Perot's press secretary, dismissed questions about his accusations as "yesterday's story" and said the independent candidate for President wanted to get back to the issues. 
 But Mr. Bush, picking up where his spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater, left off on Monday, expressed amazement in an interview on the NBC News program "Today" about the accusations.
Asked whether he agreed with Mr. Fitzwater's characterization of Mr. Perot as "a paranoid person who has delusions," Mr. Bush replied, "I agree that this recent incident is crazy."
He added: "I mean, an allegation that we would wittingly or in any other way try to break up a man's daughter's wedding, particularly not even in the Presidential race at that time. What in the world would be the reason for that?"
 
Denver Rally Planned
 Unlike Monday, when Mr. Perot repeated his accusations after showing up unexpectedly at a morning news briefing conducted by his aides, he remained secluded today. But the Dallas billionaire plans to appear at a rally in Denver on Wednesday evening, Ron Ellsworth, his Colorado campaign chairman, said. Recent polls have shown Colorado to be Mr. Perot's strongest state.
The trip will be only the second day of public campaigning for Mr. Perot since he re-entered the Presidential race on Oct. 1. Ms. Holman said she expected him to campaign this weekend but did not say where.
Mr. Perot also agreed today to be interviewed on Thursday by the ABC News correspondent Sam Donaldson for "Prime Time Live." Mr. Bush and Gov. Bill Clinton are taping separate interviews for the show. Mr. Perot will also appear on CNN's "Larry King Live" on Thursday night and has purchased seven 30-minute time slots on the networks between tonight and Monday night, the eve of the election.
Since rejoining the race Mr. Perot has spent more than $1.4 million a day, almost all of it on television advertising, according to Federal financial disclosure reports made public on Monday. He spent $10.8 million from Oct. 15 to Oct. 26, bringing his total to $37 million since he announced his candidacy 26 days earlier, and to $57 million for the year. Those numbers shatter previous records for expenditures by an independent Presidential candidate.
In Mr. Perot's absence, his aides made it clear they wanted the story about his accusations of Republican dirty tricks to go away. They say his improved standing in public opinion polls is the reason for the continuing questioning of his credibility.
Orson G. Swindle 3d, the director of United We Stand, America, Mr. Perot's political organization, told reporters: "We're trying to stop talking about it. If you'll cooperate, we'll quit talking about it."
 
Conventional News Reporting
 But questions about Mr. Perot's accusations dominated today's news briefing at the Perot campaign headquarters. And because even an unconventional campaign cannot escape the conventional practices of news reporting, the issue of Mr. Perot's credibility is not likely to die unless he provides backing for his charges.
Mr. Perot said in interviews with The Boston Herald, the CBS News program "60 Minutes" and at rallies last Sunday that he dropped out of the Presidential race in July because he had learned of a Republican plan to smear his daughter Carolyn by making public a doctored photograph depicting her in a lewd manner. He also charged that the Republicans planned to disrupt her wedding on Aug. 23 and that there was a plan to wiretap his phones.
He offered no evidence, although several Perot associates have said he spoke to them of his fears before he dropped out on July 16. When reporters asked him on Monday for help in substantiating his claims, he replied, "I'm sick and tired of you all questioning my integrity without any basis for it."
It was too early to tell from public opinion polls whether Mr. Perot's accusations were helping his campaign or hurting it. If voters believe Mr. Perot, his explanation could soften one of his enduring liabilities -- his decision to drop out of the race. But if they believe he has made reckless charges it could feed the perception of some that he is ill-suited for the Presidency.
 
Bush in Unlikely Position
 While more restrained than Mr. Fitzwater, the President did his best today to feed that perception. But it placed him in the unlikely position of having to attack a candidate who only three days ago seemed to be helping him by taking votes from Mr. Clinton.
"I will confess to you, strange, strange," Mr. Bush said in commenting on Mr. Perot's charges. He noted that Mr. Perot had said he accepted White House denials, but added, "I think I am glad that he has said there's nothing to it, but that's after airing it to how many million viewers?"
Mr. Perot also was attacked on the issues today, this time by aides to Mr. Clinton who characterized his proposals for hefty increases in gasoline taxes and Medicare premiums as regressive.
Gene Sperling, Mr. Clinton's economic policy director, said the campaign had conducted an analysis of Mr. Perot's economic plan showing that working-poor families and elderly couples would pay more in taxes as a percentage of their income than would middle-class families. Mr. Sperling also said the average millionaire would get a tax break because Mr. Perot's proposal to raise income tax rates for top earners would be more than offset by his proposed cut in the capital gains tax.
 
Stockdale on Antiwar Protests
 "What people should find most disappointing about this," Mr. Sperling said in a telephone interview, "is that Mr. Perot's thesis has been that if it's fair, people will share."
Meanwhile, Mr. Perot's running mate, James B. Stockdale, a retired Navy admiral and former prisoner of war in Vietnam, took a swipe at Mr. Clinton. In an interview published today in The Idaho Statesman in Boise, Mr. Stockdale asserted that Mr. Clinton's participation in antiwar protests while he was a student in England raised questions about his qualifications to be Commander in Chief.
"Those comrades of mine that died, the extra 10, 15, 20 thousand, that blood is on your hands, you war protesters," Mr. Stockdale told the newspaper. "Every time in prison we would hear that they had one of these big galas of the sort that Clinton was arranging here and there in the world, 'Huh,' we'd say. 'Another year in this place. We're not going to get out of here until we bomb Hanoi.' And they couldn't do that until they beat that opposition down."

GRAPHIC: Photo:
At Paducah Community College yesterday in Kentucky, State Senator David Williams announced the arrival of President Bush, who called Ross Perot's accusations of Republican dirty tricks "crazy and "strange." An aide placed the Presidential seal on the lectern during the rally.; (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times); "We're trying to stop talking about it," said Orson G. Swindle 3d, the director of United We Stand, America, Mr. Perot's political organization. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY NBC UNIVERSAL INC (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); 

PERSON: PEROT, ROSS; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); SACK, KEVIN; SWINDLE, ORSON G GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1992



931 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1396 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Politcal Pulse -- Michigan;
Michigan Figures to Be, as Usual, Unpredictable

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 27

 BODY:
Michigan has a certain affinity for the political outsider. In recent years such diverse figures as George C. Wallace, the Rev. Jesse Jackson, Edmund G. Brown Jr. and Pat Robertson have made strong showings in caucuses or primaries here.
It is a state of great political volatility. Two years ago, for example, former Gov. James J. Blanchard seemed to be cruising toward re-election. On the Thursday before Election Day, he led in one poll by 55 percent to 35 percent. Five days later, he lost. 
 "Voters here are more alienated from government and the political establishment than most," Mr. Blanchard said this week. "They've lost jobs or lost income. They are highly tax-sensitive and economy-sensitive, and they are worried sick about the future."
 
'Gold Out of Straw'
 So it is not too surprising that this swing state is one of the places where Ross Perot has gained ground dramatically in the last two weeks on Gov. Bill Clinton. Nor is it surprising that Mr. Clinton and President Bush, both of whom campaigned here on Sunday, are planning to return on Thursday for one more shot at Michigan's 18 electoral votes.
It is a fierce, unpredictable struggle. Suggesting that anything is possible, Mayor Coleman A. Young of Detroit, a Democrat, calls this "the year when politicians make gold out of straw."
For Mr. Bush, re-election seems highly improbable without a victory here. Trailing badly in New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Illinois and California, he needs every big state he can get. But the Perot surge so far has helped the President only indirectly, at least according to the public opinion polls; his standing has not budged as Mr. Clinton's has headed south.
In a poll conducted by The Detroit Free Press and WXYZ, a Detroit television station, from Oct. 3 to Oct. 7, Governor Clinton led Mr. Bush 50 percent to 31 percent, with 8 percent for Mr. Perot and 11 percent undecided. Two weeks later, after the debates, a poll taken on Oct. 20 and 21 showed the Arkansas Governor down to 41 percent, the President still at 31 and Mr. Perot at 19, with 9 percent undecided. About 625 likely voters were interviewed for each survey, and the margin of sampling error in each was plus or minus four percentage points.
 
Engler Is Optimistic
 Gov. John Engler, the man who ousted Mr. Blanchard, said in an interview today that the Republicans' private polls showed more movement toward Mr. Bush, especially when a tough test was applied to weed out unlikely voters.
"The party's phone calls have ticked sharply upwards, we're running out of yard signs and you can feel the enthusiasm, which wasn't there 10 days ago," the Governor said. "I think it will be within 100,000 votes, one way or another, and it will depend on who does the best job on turnout."
But David Rohde, a professor of political science at Michigan State University, reads the polls differently.
"Obviously, there is a substantial number of voters who are anti-Bush but not very pro-Clinton, and they have been flopping back and forth between Clinton and Perot for much of the last six months," he said. "For them the economy is the most important issue, and they are angry at both parties, fearful of higher taxes, worried about the debt. George Bush is largely irrelevant in this. What has happened is that the anti-Bush people have found a newly viable alternative.
"It's very hard to believe, after all this time, that those people are going to vote for the President, so the question becomes: Can Perot keep going up, to the point where he splits the anti-Bush vote with Clinton and lets the President pull out a narrow win?"
Professor Rohde thinks not, especially after Mr. Perot's accusations on Sunday that the Republicans plotted to disrupt his daughter's wedding.
Richard Posthumus, the leader of the Republican majority in the State Senate, agrees that Mr. Perot is not likely to go beyond 15 to 20 percent of the vote here. But he still sees some benefit for Mr. Bush in the Perot surge.
"Perot is getting the kind of people, blue-collar people, who might have gone for Ronald Reagan but won't go for George Bush because they feel betrayed on the tax pledge and on the economy generally," he said. "These people are not philosophically in tune with Clinton, and Perot gives them a vehicle.
"So what does that do for Bush? Well, it slows down the Clinton-is-inevitable stuff. It makes people think again. And maybe it gives Bush some more time to work on the undecided 10 percent."
Steven J. Rosenstone of the University of Michigan, a leading academic specialist in third-party and independent movements, is not nearly so sure that Mr. Perot has yet reached his peak in this state.
"If I had to bet, I would say Perot couldn't go much farther," Professor Rosenstone said. "But I wouldn't bet a lot. What's different about him is that he has $60 million to spend. George Wallace in 1972 spoke to far more visceral issues in places like Macomb County than Perot does, but he couldn't match the major-party candidates on TV the last week, and he fell back at the end.
"Perot can go with them, dollar for dollar, and he's also more savvy than Wallace and others in dealing early with the argument that a vote for him is wasted."
The final Presidential debate, held Oct. 19 at Michigan State University, apparently propelled Mr. Perot's spurt in the state.
Frank Garrison, the head of the Michigan A.F.L.-C.I.O., said that "a fair number of our guys like him because he's self-made and kind of macho." In addition, he said, Mr. Perot's opposition to the President's proposed free-trade agreement with Mexico, to which Mr. Clinton has given qualified support, has played a role in the Perot boom.
"For the trade union movement it's a matter of survival to win this one," Mr. Garrison said, adding that his organization was "draining its funds" in an effort on Mr. Clinton's behalf that is more intensive than any since 1960.
 
Loss of Manufacturing Jobs
 A state tabulation shows that Michigan has lost 85,000 manufacturing jobs in the last four years, and the announced closing of the big General Motors plant at Willow Run will cost another 6,000 jobs. Other major plant closures are said to be pending.
Mr. Perot's stature as a champion of American manufacturing was damaged over the weekend when The Flint Journal, the daily newspaper in a prototypical car-making town, published a headline that said, "Perot -- Billionaire, Presidential Candidate, Volvo, Mercedes Owner." The small print said he also drives an Oldsmobile.
A late development that could help Mr. Bush, Governor Engler said, is the resignation, announced Monday, of Robert C. Stempel as chairman of General Motors, although the recession certainly contributed to his demise.
"If you think the way to fix General Motors' problems is to raise taxes and impose more stringent regulation, the way Bill Clinton wants to, then I think you're pretty crazy," Mr. Engler said.
According to Hugh McDiarmid, political columnist at The Detroit Free Press, Mr. Perot's strongest support in Michigan comes from men, young people 18 to 34 years of age and independents. Other surveys indicate that he is strongest in the Detroit surburbs, particularly the blue-collar areas where Reagan Democrats are concentrated.
 
'Enamored of the Messenger'
 In Macomb County, north of Detroit, which may be the nation's most closely studied electoral unit, Mr. Perot is on the march among voters who split in recent decades with the Democrats on racial and cultural issues but had seemed ready to "come home" with Governor Clinton. Leo R. Lalonde, the county Democratic chairman, said the Texas billionaire was now taking about a quarter of the vote there.
"A lot of people are enamored of the messenger," said Mr. Lalonde. "I'm just hoping that they'll leave him in droves when they come to grips with his tax plans and see how nutty the guy is."
But Clinton supporters here seem unsure, exactly, about how to cope with Mr. Perot and halt their candidate's slippage.
"Clearly, in Michigan a vote for Ross Perot is a vote for George Bush," said former Governor Blanchard, who was one of Mr. Clinton's earliest and most fervent backers. "But I'm not about to start saying that on the stump until Little Rock says to. I'm trying hard to be part of a national effort, not some local free-lance."


GRAPHIC: The fastest-growing Midwestern state between 1940 and 1965, Michigan has become one of the nation's most economically troubled. Although its politics have grown volatile in the years of adjustment to a contracting auto industry, only one of the 18 Congressional incumbents, Bob Carr, the Sixth District Democrat, is thought to be in trouble this year. In the Eleventh District, Robert W. Davis is retiring, and a fellow Republican, Philip Ruppe, seems like to win the seat.
 
Electoral Votes: 18
 
Population

 	 	 	 	1980	1900	Total 	9,262,078	9,295,297	White 	85.0% 	83.4%	Black 	12.9% 	13.9%	Other 	2.1% 	2.7%	Hispanic origin	1.8% 	2.2%	
 
Registered Voters
 November 1988: 5,768,080
 July 1992: 5,956,403
 
How Michigan Has Voted in Presidential Elections
 
1976
 Ford: 51.8%
 Carter: 46.4%
 
1980
 Reagan: 49%
 Carter: 42.5%
 
1984
 Reagan: 59.2%
 Mondale: 40.2%
 
1988
 Bush: 53.6%
 Dukakis: 45.7%
 
Per Capita Income
Chart: "A State in Transition"
 1991 figures are the most recent available and are not adjusted for inflation.
 
1988
 Mich.: $16,590
 U.S.: $16,618
 
1991
 Mich.: $18,655
 U.S.: $19,092
 
Unemployment
 
Sept. 1988
 Mich.: 7.3%
 U.S.: 5.3%
 
Sept. 1992
 Mich.: 8.2%
 U.S.: 7.5%
 
(Sources: Census Bureau; Michigan Secretary of State, Bureau of Elections; America Votes; U.S. Commerce Department, Bureau of Economic Analysis; U.S. Labor Department, Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: DETROIT FREE PRESS INC (55%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MICHIGAN UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; VOTER BEHAVIOR; PUBLIC OPINION; SURVEYS AND SERIES ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); STATISTICS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; PEROT, ROSS; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JESSE JACKSON (73%); JERRY BROWN (72%); NORM COLEMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1992



932 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: In the Battle Over Riverside South, the City Could Be the Winner

BYLINE: By HERBERT MUSCHAMP

 BODY:
When the New York City Council considers Riverside South, Donald J. Trump's 57-acre mixed-use development project, on the Upper West Side, what is at stake is more than Mr. Trump's ambitions for the site. The project is an opportunity to look toward broader urban policy issues.
What if the tables were turned in the review process? What if this fiercely contested site, the target of heated debate for more than a generation, were given the opportunity to express its opinion about the way we plan and build cities? How would it rate us? 
 Not highly, in the opinion of a planning commissioner, Ronald Shiffman. On Monday, when Mr. Shiffman joined his fellow commissioners in approving Mr. Trump's plan for Riverside South, he praised the design, the civic groups who sponsored it, even the West Side residents who opposed it. But Mr. Shiffman also spoke pointedly of "the planning vacuum that unfortunately exists in New York City." The civic organizations, he said, had accomplished "what the city should have done years ago -- plan in the public interest."
Indeed, what is called for now is a shift in scrutiny: from Riverside South to city, state and Federal policies that govern urban development.
 
Focus for Debate
 "Riverside South is a partial glimpse of a public world at a time when there isn't a public world," said Linda Davidoff, chairman of the Parks Council, one of the private civic groups that joined with Mr. Trump almost two years ago to rework his earlier schemes for "Television City" and "Trump City." Ms. Davidoff's assessment is remarkably astute.
To judge Riverside South properly is to expose the vacuum that occupies the place where the public sector ought to be. This could turn out to be Riverside South's greatest contribution to New York.
Builders have had designs on the site for 30 years. Four of the designs were initiated by Mr. Trump. The West Side community, meanwhile, has pursued its own design: a well-organized, impassioned opposition that has helped to stall development. Still, the site, the former Penn Central railyards, has not stood totally idle. It has provided the focus for continuing public debate on virtually every issue of major importance to cities today. Urban design. Sustainable growth. Density. Affordable housing. Parks and public spaces. Transportation, sewage and other elements of urban infrastructure.
 
Collaboration and Hope
 Mr. Trump's agreement to join with the civic groups held out the hope that, at last, a developer would pay serious attention to these issues; that all those voices would be translated into urban design. The plan, prepared by Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, with the architect Paul Willen, has made good on that promise.
A model of contextual design, Mr. Trump's plan promotes public access to the waterfront and to a new 21.5-acre public park on the site, which stretches along the Hudson River from 59th to 72d Streets.
 
Concessions to Public Desires
 The city's public review process, which began last May, has again provided an opportunity to air the issues. On each, Mr. Trump has made significant concessions to public desires: Sharply reduced density; a commitment to provide 20 percent below-market-rate housing, of which 12 percent will be subsidized by the developer if public money is not forthcoming, and redesign of the park by Thomas Balsley with a focus on recreation. Ten million dollars toward the renovation of the 72d Street subway station.
Each of his concessions has improved the project. They affirm the effectiveness of the public review process. And yet, somehow, the victory feels hollow. Each concession on Mr. Trump's part has pointed toward a far more intractable problem: the erosion of the public realm that has steadily worsened over the years.
What does it say about the state of urban policy that it takes such an enormous project -- virtually a small city -- to fix up one subway station? What does it say when it takes a luxury housing developer to create affordable housing?
 
Catalyst for Change
 It says this is a time when the vision and support required to build and maintain cities are at a historically low ebb. It is painful to talk about affordable housing when the prevailing will has been to dismantle public housing programs rather than to reinforce them. It is difficult to reckon with public transportation when there is insufficient will to divert government money from highways to mass transit.
Riverside South could help to change this. The project's size, long the focus of public opposition, could now prove to be its major asset. A project this big forces us to grasp that if, in one sense, the system worked with Riverside South, in a larger sense, a new system is needed.
Up to now, the debate on the Penn Yards site has pointed inward, applying pressure on Mr. Trump and his associates to improve the project's civic dimension. The pressure has been applied with success. But the real success will come with a broader debate: when the pressure that has been focused on these 57 acres is channeled toward each level of city, state and Federal government. It is at these levels that fundamental changes will be found in the way cities are perceived, designed, built and managed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: An Appraisal

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (50%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (50%); NEW YORK CITY COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; RIVERSIDE SOUTH PROJECT (NYC); ZONING; HOUSING MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CITIES (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (88%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); ZONING (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (77%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (73%); 

PERSON: MUSCHAMP, HERBERT; TRUMP, DONALD DONALD TRUMP (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1992



933 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: Defending State's Jobs Is Priority, Dodd Maintains

BYLINE: By GEORGE JUDSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NORWALK, Conn., Oct. 27

 BODY:
Senator Christopher J. Dodd told labor and business groups today that his priority in a new term would be defending Connecticut jobs while working to restart the national economy.
Mr. Dodd, a Democrat seeking a third term, sharply criticized the Bush Administration for offering aid and trade concessions to Russia, China and Mexico while not acting to end the recession at home. 
 "I'm not going to sit here and tell you that Bill Clinton has a silver bullet that's going to solve all problems," Mr. Dodd told a meeting of union shop stewards in New Haven. "But I am going to tell you that Bill Clinton is going to have an agenda that puts America first."
President Bush twice vetoed the extension of unemployment benefits because of their cost, while asking for $12 billion in economic aid for the former Soviet Union, he said. "What many people in this state are asking is, 'How about an economic plan for the United States of America?" Mr. Dodd said. "We're not going to be any good to anybody unless we strengthen our own economy."
Later, at a Greater Norwalk Chamber of Commerce luncheon, Mr. Dodd said the Government must free tight lending policies that are preventing companies from obtaining working capital, and encourage investment in new manufacturing with tax credits and a capital-gains tax cut for specific industries.
He warned that Connecticut's delegation faces a hard fight defending the state's interests in the next Congress, when the expiration of the 1990 budget agreement will allow legislators to cut money from military spending and apply it to domestic programs. The debate over national health insurance is also of vital concern to the state's insurance industry.
"This state will be under tremendous pressure," Mr. Dodd told the chamber. "I promise there will be legislation by Jan. 3 aiming at us."
In both appearances today, Mr. Dodd focused on the economy while strongly advocating legislation supporting families and children.
Repeating a standard Dodd phrase, "the best social program ever invented is a job," he called for personal responsibility. "I don't say people have a right to engage in illegal or improper behavior because they don't have a job," he said. But he said the country must do more to create jobs, educate the children who will grow up to take them, and provide health care for everyone.
"My God, what kind of country are we living in," he said, "if you're a criminal and you have a right to a lawyer, but if you're sick you don't have a right to a doctor?"
 
Medicare and Medicaid Cuts
 Giving credit to Ross Perot, Mr. Dodd said he felt people were willing to talk seriously about the economic issues facing the country.
"My sense is people are saying, 'I want this to be a stronger country,' " he said. "People are saying, 'I'm willing to take a hit, as long as it's fair.' "
As he did in a series of debates with Mr. Johnson, Mr. Dodd said today that he would support cutting spending in two entitlement programs, Medicare and Medicaid.
He said that Medicare, the medical program for the elderly, should be subject to an income test so the country does not pay health insurance for the wealthy.
He also criticized the growing practice of elderly people giving their assets to relatives so Medicaid, the health-insurance program for the poor, will pay their nursing-home costs. "That is fraud," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAX LAW (86%); HEALTH INSURANCE (86%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); JOB CREATION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); FAMILY (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); RECESSION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); HEALTH CARE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); VETO (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); MEDICARE (73%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); MEDICAID (72%); TRENDS (71%); INSURANCE (68%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (65%); DEFENSE SPENDING (64%); RIGHT TO COUNSEL (60%); WORKING CAPITAL (51%); 

PERSON: JUDSON, GEORGE; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); DODD, CHRISTOPHER J (SEN) CHRISTOPHER DODD (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1992



934 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: Hard-Fought Race for Congress

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HEMPSTEAD, L.I., Oct. 26

 BODY:
For voters in the Fourth Congressional District in western Nassau County, one of the major issues this political season may come down to a question of definitions: what is an insider, what is an outsider and which would you rather send to Congress?
Both of the leading candidates, David A. Levy, a Nassau Republican strategist, and Phil Schiliro, a Democrat and veteran Congressional aide, are running their first campaigns for national office. Their backgrounds reflect the different paths to power for professional politicians in the 1990's. 
 Each has portrayed his opponent as the kind of political insider Nassau voters should avoid. Mr. Levy, with no Washington experience, is a product of the county's Republican Party organization, which many deride as a political machine. And Mr. Schiliro, with extensive experience in the Democratic establishment in Washington, has spent almost all his adult life living outside the district he now hopes to represent.
In Nassau County, long a bastion of Republican dominance, Mr. Schiliro has emerged as a scrappy challenger. He announced his candidacy earlier this year after the boundaries of the Fourth District were changed to include much of what had been the Fifth District, and Raymond J. McGrath, a Republican who had represented the Fifth District for five terms, said he would not run again.
Even with its new boundaries, the Fourth District remains a Republican stronghold. Registration figures show that the district has 147,000 Republicans, 87,000 Democrats and 52,000 independents.
Mr. Schiliro, a 36-year-old lawyer and native of Baldwin, L.I., has spent more than a decade honing his skills as a policy analyst and political adviser to Democrats in Congress.
He has taken a leave from his $100,000-a-year job as the top aide to Representative Henry A. Waxman, a California Democrat and chairman of the House Health and Environment Subcommittee. He has worked extensively on issues involving national policy on health care and the environment and now has the financial backing of several political action committees that share his interests.
But since leaving Long Island in 1978 to attend Lewis and Clark Law School in Oregon, he has never lived in the district he hopes to represent.
"He is passing through," said Mr. Levy, a member of the Hempstead Town Board and a veteran of Republican politics in the county. Other Republican Party loyalists here call Mr. Schiliro a "carpetbagger."
"No doubt Phil Schiliro is well-connected in the Washington establishment," Mr. Levy said. "But that estabishment is what we need to change."
No one could accuse Mr. Levy, 38, of straying far from Nassau County or its deeply entrenched Republican organization. Mr. Levy, a lawyer and former radio reporter, has been on the payroll of the county's Republican committee since 1984.
Mr. Levy makes $53,000 a year as a staff strategist and spokesman for the Nassau County Republican Committee. That is in addition to his $45,000 annual salary as a member of the Hemptstead Town Board.
"I have been in contact, day and night, with the people of this district," Mr. Levy said. "They know what they are getting when they vote for me."
 
'Political Viability'
 Still, it is precisely Mr. Levy's allegiance to the Nassau County Republican organization that Mr. Schiliro has attacked most vigorously. "He is a product of a machine that has ruined government in Nassau County," Mr. Schiliro said. "I've been fighting for things I believe in, and he has been trying to maintain political viability."
In a campaign with little radio and television advertising, both candidates have relied on direct mail and newspaper advertisements, as well as frequent visits to railroad stations and other personal appearances.
Mr. Schiliro's campaign has been far better financed, largely from sources outside the district. Mr. Waxman, the candidate's employer and mentor, has publicly requested that a host of political action groups, whose political interests are allied to health and environmental policy, send their checks to the Schiliro campaign.
Among the contributors to Mr. Schiliro are the Pro-Choice Political Action Committee, which supports abortion rights, the Kids Political Action Committee, which advocates greater Federal spending for children's health care, and the Sierra Club, the environmental group.
As of Oct. 14, disclosure forms submitted by the two candidates show campaign contributions of $257,500 to Mr. Schiliro, and $85,300 to Mr. Levy.
The candidates' positions on many issues are consistent with those of their parties but reflect the moderating influences of a wealthy, well-educated constituency. The district has traditionally voted for Republican candidates but has proved itself more liberal than the Republican Party mainstream on some social issues.
On abortion rights, Mr. Levy differs with many Republican candidates elsewhere by supporting unrestricted abortion during the first trimester of pregnancy. He opposes attempts to prohibit family planning clinics that receive Federal support from mentioning abortion. But he also opposes the use of Medicaid funds for abortion.
Mr. Shiliro, describing himself as ardently "pro-choice," supports the use of Medicaid funds for abortions.
He has courted backing from women, obtaining endorsements from Representative Patricia Schroeder, the Colorado Democrat; Barbara Boxer, Democratic candidate for the Senate from California, and others. He has also made Long Island's high incidence of breast cancer a cornerstone of his campaign and has called for liberalized Medicare rules to permit more frequent mammograms.
Mr. Levy says he too would support any increased commitment of Federal money for breast-cancer research and patient testing. But he says the economy is the top issue.
 
Economic Issues
 Perhaps more than in any recent election, economic issues -- the recession, wide job losses and the fiscal problems facing Nassau County -- seem to be on the minds of voters.
While neither candidate said he could provide quick fixes for Nassau, both said their national economic proposals would benefit workers here.
Mr. Levy, endorsing an amalgam of proposals made by President Bush and by Ross Perot, said his priorities include a reduction in capital-gains taxes and creating a $5,000 income-tax credit for first-time home buyers.
The economic incentives proposed by Mr. Schiliro are closer to those proposed by Gov. Bill Clinton. Mr. Schiliro said he supports more Federal investment in roads, bridges, mass transit and schools, increased Federal spending to help defense industry companies convert to making peacetime products, and new Federal programs to retrain workers.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Phil Schiliro, a Congressional aide, is the Democratic candidate in the Fourth Congressional District in western Nassau County. He campaigned at the Valley Stream station of the Long Island Rail Road.; David A. Levy, the Republican candidate, is a strategist for the party's Nassau County committee. He talked with a voter in Franklin Square. (Photographs by Steve Berman for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "AT A GLANCE: Fourth Congressional District"
 
POPULATION
Total: 580,338
 
Voting-age population:
 
Hispanic: 7%
Black: 14.3%
Other: 2.9%
 
MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME
In 1989
 
District 4: $52,000
N.Y. State: $32,965
 
(Sources: 1990 Census, New York State LegislativeTask Force on Redistricting)
 
Map of Long Island showing location of the Fourth Congressional District.
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY NASSAU REPUBLICAN (91%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (67%); KIDS POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY REPUBLICAN PARTY (67%); KIDS POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NASSAU COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LAWYERS (75%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (64%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J; LEVY, DONALD A; SCHILIRO, PHIL HENRY WAXMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1992



935 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1511 words

HEADLINE: Abrams Tries to Tailor a Message for All Venues, Audiences and Moods

BYLINE: By CATHERINE S. MANEGOLD

 BODY:
Ever the nervous student, Robert Abrams scanned a yellow legal pad moments before addressing a group of about 30 Democratic Party faithful on a recent afternoon. Scribbled at the top, a timeless reminder: "Say nice things about the party."
Great idea.
He did. Everyone clapped. On to the next stop. 
 Sometimes using charts and graphs, the New York State Attorney General stands before the cameras, his smudged glasses shining, his hands waving and his Bronx-tinged voice spinning tales of woe about Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato's voting record, the state's poor economy and the many scandals that have swirled in the Senator's wake. Stop after stop, the words repeat in an endless loop, tailored to fit the venue, the audience and the mood.
 
The Standard Fare
 For weeks, his standard fare has droned on without providing him with an increase in the polls. Day after day, racing from one unlikely locale to another, Mr. Abrams pounds away, telling older people that their needs should be met, Jews that Israel is important, blacks that civil rights matter and hospital administrators that health care in New York is in a state of crisis. His messages are well framed and well meant.
 
Hitting His Stride
 He repeatedly attacks Mr. D'Amato's involvement in everything from lost Housing and Urban Development grants to lost jobs, the high cost of health insurance and threats to abortion rights. But as he moves toward the final stretch, he may have begun to hit his stride. Sunday, standing first before Local 3 of the Jewish Electrical Welfare Club in Flushing, Queens, and later before about 1,000 congregants at the First Baptist Church in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, Mr. Abrams suddenly hit a groove, winning passionate applause from audiences hungry for change in Washington and better prospects for their future.
At the Baptist church, he spoke of his fight against housing discrimination and his deeply held belief in civil rights. He condemned Mr. D'Amato for casting "the decisive vote" against the 1992 civil rights act and almost brought the congregation to its feet when he promised to "pay Al D'Amato back Nov. 3."
Even when he ran through his customary litany of the 500,000 jobs lost in New York State, the $117 billion sent to Washington never to return, and his complaint that New Yorkers have suffered from deep cuts in education, health care and other essentials, he seemed almost spontaneous.
"We've got news for this administration," he said, his voice rolling over a carpet of bowed and nodding heads. "They have turned their backs on us over these last 12 years and we are going to turn our backs on them this Nov. 3."
In closing, he leaned on his only laugh line. "Al D'Amato says he's bringing home the bacon," he said in a voice that tends to rise and fall like the tides. "But we know that's a lot of ba-low-ney! New York is hurting! New York is in pain! New York has lost more jobs than any state in the nation under the Bush-Quayle-D'Amato years."
Invariably, he invokes the Clinton-Gore-Abrams spirit, then goes a little glassy-eyed as he casts his mind forward to a hypothetical future and its "first 100 days." He can taste it.
 
Fund-Raising Troubles
 Now, caught in a tight race against an aggressive opponent, Mr. Abrams is finding that his predictability may have hurt, and that his overwhelming need to spend time out of the limelight raising money has left him in front, but only slightly so.
Faced with money problems and the need to whirl and counterpunch with every fresh attack staged by his deft, high-spending opponent, Mr. Abrams's own race still has far to go to reach victory. His latest move has been to release a harsh advertisement attacking Mr. D'Amato with the frequency and some of the same ferocity that has been turned on him. That may move him away from a once-a-day stealth campaign that has worried his supporters and left the incumbent Senator grabbing most of the attention.
Even when Mr. Abrams has taken to the stump, one tends to wonder where in the world did everybody else go? Unless his campaign staff hitches his wagon to someone else's, he usually holds forth before several dozen potential supporters, a supportive United States Senator (if he's lucky -- two) or simply a couple of rumpled television and newspaper reporters who peer at him against a backdrop full of supposed symbolic impact. At those stagy news conferences, Mr. Abrams's tones roll like those of a new-age preacher stuck with out-of-date oratory.
Those appearances, intended to reach the masses via the few, have often been obscured by both bad luck and poor preparation. Monday, at a news conference held to decry New York's crumbling infrastructure and Senator D'Amato's supposed disregard for New York state, Mr. Abrams stood with Senator Bill Bradley near Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive and 42d Street. The roar of adjacent traffic nearly drowned out their statements. But a more incredible detail was purely visual. The stretch of highway that Mr. Abrams's advance team picked looked freshly painted and remarkably secure.
 
His Worst Moment
 There have been other pratfalls. At a stop in Cortland on Oct. 11, one supposed supporter conceded that he came only because his boss told him the Attorney General "needed warm bodies."
But the worst moment may have come last week when Mr. Abrams stood outside Bellevue Hospital Center flanked by Senators Tom Harkin of Iowa and Harris Wofford of Pennsylvania. As the men tried to talk about the urgent need for a national health insurance program they were repeatedly interrupted by a man shouting: "Help for the homeless!" Reporters, meanwhile, could not help noting the pervasive stench of urine and that the three politicians were huddled beneath a sign pointing to the hospital's psychiatric ward.
Mr. D'Amato's team, meanwhile, has pressed every advantage. During a campaign swing upstate several weeks ago, the Senator's supporters heckled an Abrams rally and managed to so thoroughly unnerve the Attorney General that he later called the Senator a "fascist," a term he afterward attributed to anger. Days later, he apologized. Now, Senator D'Amato's allies have a new technique. They sometimes appear early at Mr. Abrams's news conferences and hand out counter-spin photocopies that undercut the Attorney General's statements.
Once past such technical and human glitches, Mr. Abrams lays out rehearsed speech chunks that are more compelling in the abstract than in person. Even his supporters lament that while they admire his stand and his record on such issues as national health care, job protection and abortion rights, his style is something short of galvanizing. His wife, Diane, is considered a more compelling speaker on abortion, though Mr. Abrams has been an aggressive defendant of abortion rights throughout his long public career.
Day by day his staff has usually seemed unsure of what was coming. A charitable assessment would be that the campaign is fluid and always ready to react. Some leading New York politicians say, instead, that it is floundering. "I don't know," said the assistant to one visiting senator. "It just seems, well, disjointed."
 
A Slow Start
 Ethan Geto, Mr. Abrams's campaign director, admits to a slow start. "We decided to take the pain in the first couple of weeks," he said, explaining that there was neither the time nor the money to get the campaign message out more broadly. Other campaign staffers complain that some events Mr. Abrams has attended simply turned out to be smaller or less dynamic than they had hoped. For the most part, though, the result has been rather like a concert in an empty hall.
Pinned by the need to raise money and thwarted by the fickleness of news, the race for the Senate is the furthest Mr. Abrams has ever moved from his roots as a young candidate for the State Legislature who stood outside Bronx subway stations shouting out his name and grabbing the hands of anyone who passed. But some of that spirit lingers.
Even through the rain and the stench, the hecklers and the drone of traffic, Mr. Abrams mostly keeps his calm. Bounding out of a rented car, he extends one hand for a handshake, the other for a pat on the back. "Hey!" he booms. "Bob Abrams. Help me out! Your vote is my luck."
Some people take his hand and return his pat on the back with words of encouragement and the promise of a vote. Others sometimes take a moment to criticize him for the negativity of the primary and the mudslinging of recent weeks.
The comments freeze his smile. "Hey," he shrugged uncomfortably when challenged during a "drop and stop" in Brooklyn. "When you're attacked, you have to defend yourself."
At those moments, his smile fades and he flushes from the collar of his shirt to the top of his head. Then he looks around for a friendlier face and moves, magnetized, toward the potential of another Democratic lever dropping. Urged on in his bumpy race, his smile breaks out again and sometimes he almost looks happy.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert Abrams campaigned yesterday on Manhattan's East Side. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); HEALTH CARE (87%); JEWS & JUDAISM (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); DISCRIMINATION (72%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); HOSPITALS (66%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); GRANTS & GIFTS (65%); CITIES (50%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: MANEGOLD, CATHERINE S; ABRAMS, ROBERT (ATTY GEN); D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN) ALFONSE M D'AMATO (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1992



936 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: Far From the Governor's Office, but Not From Politics

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MADISON, N.J.

 BODY:
With handicapping for a Democratic Presidential cabinet already under way, a name that pops up on some lists belongs to a Republican, Thomas H. Kean.
Mr. Kean, the former Governor of New Jersey and now president of Drew University, also happens to be chairman of President Bush's re-election effort in New Jersey, but some analysts think he could become Secretary of Education if his old buddy, Gov. Bill Clinton, is elected President. 
 His inclusion on such lists attests to Mr. Kean's reputation as an educational innovator. Under him, New Jersey became the first state to allow professionals without the usual certification to become public school teachers. It also attests to his unusual ability to handle issues without necessarily bowing to partisan politics.
At the same time his continued involvement with the world of politics, even while serving as president of a liberal arts college, makes some of his faculty and students uneasy. Many people on campus are asking whether Drew is merely a way station on Mr. Kean's path to higher political office.
"We have no delusions about Kean giving up his political life for that of a university administrator," said a recent editorial in The Acorn, the weekly student newspaper, "but we would like to think that during his tenure here, however brief, Kean would act more like a president, and less like a governor."
 
No 'Political Eunuch'
 Typically, Mr. Kean says he understands those concerns but will go his own way and take the consequences. "You can't expect someone to become a political eunuch just because he's president of a university," he said on a recent walk across the leafy Drew campus in Madison. "You've got to take on controversy from time to time. You've got to do things that people disagree with."
To most college presidents, partisan politics is laced with trouble; someone not as affable in character or moderate in politics as Mr. Kean might not be able to pull off such a double role. But three years ago Drew's trustees took a chance on him, hoping his record of education reforms, and his large circle of friends, would help revive the 125-year-old university, which has 2,100 students on its campus, about 20 miles from Newark.
By most counts, Mr. Kean has given Drew a higher profile. Applications, student test scores and overall donations are up.
"He's great for us because of the p.r. factor," said Thomas G. Ward, a senior political science major from Parsippany who is enrolled in Mr. Kean's seminar, titled "Governing a State."
 
Kean's 'Terrific Drawback'
 Before Drew appointed him its 10th president, Mr. Kean, who is 57 years old, had no experience running a university. He has a bachelor's degree in history from Princeton and a master's degree in history and education from Columbia, but no Ph.D.; his teaching experience amounts to the two and a half years he taught history at St. Mark's Preparatory School in Southborough, Mass., where he had been a student.
"His lack of qualifications and experience as a scholar has been a terrific drawback," said Rosalind S. Seneca, a professor of economics at Drew and one of Mr. Kean's most ardent critics. "He wants to run the university as though it were a corporation or a political organization. He sees everything in terms of constituencies and wants to maintain control."
But in his penny loafers and blue blazer, Mr. Kean looks the part of a college president. And his resume includes 10 years as a legislator and eight years as chief executive of one of the nation's most complicated states.
During that time education was one of his chief concerns. Along with Governor Clinton, he was one of the prime movers at the National Governors' Association's Conference on Education in 1989.
Among Mr. Kean's most significant educational innovations in New Jersey was the alternate route program, which makes it possible for any college graduate to become a public school teacher, bypassing standard teacher's certification requirements. New Jersey also issued its first state report cards for school districts during his administration, adopted statewide proficiency standards for students and substantially raised starting salaries for teachers.
Mr. Kean said many of the principles he followed in Trenton apply to running a university.
"Someone asked me the other day to compare the two jobs, and I said that they are basically the same thing," Mr. Kean said. "I still have to deal with constituency groups with a lot of their own interests, and I'm still working with a whole bunch of people I can't fire."
Because he can appeal to people across the spectrum, Mr. Kean has become a valuable adviser to President Bush. Last summer, Mr. Bush invited Mr. Kean to a lunch at the White House with Secretary of Education Lamar Alexander, who is also a former governor and university president; Benno C. Schmidt Jr., who had just quit as president of Yale to start a national system of private schools for Whittle Communications, and Christopher Whittle, that company's president.
Mr. Kean said Mr. Bush was worried that the Whittle effort would interfere with the Government's New American Schools Development Corporation, a school reform effort that Mr. Kean heads. Mr. Kean said that what the Whittle group was proposing were "models for what might be done with less money to educate kids better."
"If they're able to do that, a lot of public schools, in order to compete, would start making some of these changes also," he said.
 
Changes at Drew
 After he left the Governor's office, Mr. Kean said, he had offers from a number of universities but picked the $125,000-a-year position at Drew because, he said, he wanted to establish a national model of higher education and felt he could have more influence in less time at a small institution. Drew is also a 20-minute drive from his home.
He wasted no time making his mark. He replaced most of the university's top officials and brought in several from state government.
Soon after Mr. Kean arrived donors gave the university $2 million, which he used to start a scholarship program for minority students. He also revived an idea he had embraced while Governor: He has made teaching count for half of promotion decisions and started a $10,000 annual teaching award -- one of the largest in the country -- that is Drew's version of a master teacher program.
His first battle over budget cuts, in 1990, was stormy, with students and faculty members picketing outside President's Hall. "People didn't have very much confidence in him," said Gabriel K. O'Hare, a senior from Claremont, Calif., who is president of Drew's Student Government Association.
That confrontation taught Mr. Kean a little about university politics and the value of building a consensus. He named students and faculty to budget committees and made Drew one of the first universities in the nation to put its proposed budget on a computerized electronic mail network, accessible to all.
Almost from the day Mr. Kean arrived at Drew, there have been rumors he will leave to run for United States Senate, or for governor again. He is said to have turned down appointments in the Bush Administration, and now he is amused by talk of his part in a Clinton cabinet.
"I have never made a commitment that I won't go someplace else at some point," he said. He said he's been offered positions in both the public and private sectors. The answer, he said, is always the same.
"What I tell them is that I have an obligation here and I'm enjoying myself," leaving anything more unsaid.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas H. Kean, the former governor of New Jersey, straddles two worlds, one old and the other new. From his President's office at Drew University in Madison, N.J., he finds that politics still makes a claim on his time. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: DREW UNIVERSITY DREW UNIVERSITY (88%); 

ORGANIZATION: DREW UNIVERSITY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (76%); ACADEMIC TESTING (76%); HISTORY (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); EDUCATION REFORM (71%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (71%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (70%); 

PERSON: KEAN, THOMAS H; DEPALMA, ANTHONY BILL CLINTON (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1992



937 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Mayoralty Of Elizabeth Is Entering A New Era

BYLINE: By CHARLES STRUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ELIZABETH, N.J., Oct. 27

 BODY:
It's hard for J. Christian Bollwage, a Democratic councilman since 1983, to see how he could lose the campaign to be this city's next mayor. Even his sole rival seems inclined to agree.
"I now know what it's like to be David fighting Goliath," said the Republican candidate, James W. Dembeck. "The G.O.P. has no money. When they asked me to run, I was under the impression that they had leadership, organization and money. It's really a biweekly kaffeeklatsch." 
 Make no mistake: Mr. Dembeck, a 62-year-old former planning board chairman who unsuccessfully sought a council seat in 1959 and the mayoralty in 1976, is still very much engaged. He attends rallies and community meetings, though his work as an accident investigator prevents him from spending much time going door to door. His platform calls for term limits on all elected officials, more efficiency in city departments, new downtown development and a crackdown on crime and drugs.
 
Big Edge for Democrats
 But the reality is this: Elizabeth has 21,000 registered Democrats, 3,500 Republicans and 13,000 independents, and the 38-year-old Mr. Bollwage (pronounced BOWL-wage) has the momentum, the money and the new-found political clout to do some of the things that Mr. Dembeck can only talk about. In June the councilman defeated Mayor Thomas G. Dunn in a primary election that ended Mr. Dunn's 27-year grip on City Hall and left Mr. Bollwage the undisputed party leader and front-runner for the $61,000-a-year post.
Mayor Dunn has stayed out of the campaign. "I made it very plain that if Bollwage wanted my support, I'd be willing to give it to him, but only upon invitation," Mr. Dunn said. "For some strange reason he has continued his attacks on me after the primary, so evidently he is not going to ask for my support. I don't want to go where I'm not wanted."
Ordinarily, the novelty of a campaign without Mr. Dunn would have been more noticeable. But for the first time in 200 years, the city is without its main source of local news, The Daily Journal, which closed in January, its local advertising base gone. Both candidates say the loss has made it tougher for them to get their message to the city's 110,000 residents. They have relied instead on a weekly newspaper, The City News, and debates on a local cable television station, the second of which will air on Wednesday night.
Next Tuesday's outcome aside, the candidates generally agree that Elizabeth, the state's fourth-largest city, needs an overhaul. They also agree that crime and drugs are problems that must be tackled strenuously, though they differ on how to staff the police department and how much to spend. Mayor Dunn, they say, overstayed his welcome, having failed to involve waves of new immigrants, many of them Hispanic, in his government -- a government that did not seize opportunities for seed money and renewal in the late 1980's.
 
Post-Election Plans
 Now, with a clear field and the likely company of at least seven allies on the the nine-member City Council, Mr. Bollwage has begun to outline his post-election plans.
In a program he calls "Neighborhoods for the 90's," Mr. Bollwage says he hopes to create from existing city agencies a new Neighborhood Services Department as a kind of SWAT team for renewal.
"We would have the police move into the four or five areas in the city where there are open-air drug markets, remove the dealers or push them elsewhere," he said. "But we wouldn't stop there."
Mr. Bollwage envisions sending social workers, teachers, builders and a permanent police presence to each of these neighborhoods in an attempt to restore confidence, commerce and social stability. He hopes to add 10 officers to the force in each of the next four years.
 
Downtown Development
 He also wants to begin the long-stalled effort to revitalize a three-acre chunk of downtown Elizabeth, which has been little more than a parking lot for 20 years. The Council has approved a plan for commercial and residential development, but it will be up to the new administration to see it through as well as to try to reap more revenue from the city's seaport, particularly from land owned by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
Mr. Dembeck believes a Bollwage mayoralty will be profligate with tax dollars, and on a political level he is incensed by Mr. Bollwage's apparent assumption that the mayoralty is already his.
"He's part of the problem," said Mr. Dembeck. "He's been part of the administration for years, and all of a sudden he's asking people, 'What's the problem?' "
Mr. Bollwage, who has worked in sales, marketing and public relations, rejects the criticism. He said he looked forward to "talking about the positives of this city in a global market."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ELIZABETH (NJ) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); CRIME PREVENTION (73%); TERM LIMITS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (54%); 

PERSON: STRUM, CHARLES; DUNN, THOMAS G (MAYOR); BOLLWAGE, J CHRISTIAN (COUNCILMAN); DEMBECK, JAMES W J CHRISTIAN BOLLWAGE (96%); THOMAS G DUNN (84%); JAMES W DEMBECK (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1992



938 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1496 words

HEADLINE: Sauce Makers Smile At the Rage for Pasta

BYLINE: By FLORENCE FABRICANT

 BODY:
AMERICANS eat more than four billion pounds of pasta a year. And they're not eating it plain.
Despite the nostalgic image of Grandma in her apron tending a pot of simmering sauce for hours, what's sauce for pasta nowadays usually comes in a jar. Since the pasta industry is still ballooning, with annual consumption having doubled since 1975, it continues to pull the sauce business along with it. Supermarkets and groceries are scrambling to find enough shelves for all the sauces. 
 "In the past a meal of pasta was considered Italian, but now it's become American," said John Gennari, the marketing manager for Ragu Foods, which was started in a Rochester kitchen in 1937 by two Italian immigrants, Giovanni and Assunta Cantisano.
Ragu became the first nationally distributed brand of pasta sauce after it was acquired by Chesebrough-Pond's in 1969. Now a subsidiary of the multinational giant Unilever, it has a 40 percent share of the market, making it the leading brand. Its closest competitor is Prego, made by the Campbell Soup Company, with a 26 percent share.
After they sold Ragu, the Cantisanos did not retire from the spaghetti-sauce business. They now make Francesco Rinaldi products in Rochester, and their son, Ralph, is the company's chairman.
Starting in the mid-1970's, sales of pasta sauces grew by about 20 percent a year, creating what is now a $1.2 billion industry. While annual increases have dropped to the single digits for most big commercial brands, the growth is expected to continue. The producers of pasta sauce, both large and small, happily continue to increase their orders for tomato paste or canned California tomatoes from year to year.
Mr. Gennari said more new pasta sauces have been introduced this year than in any of the 14 previous years he has been in the business. "Many of them are by significant companies," he said, citing Hunt, which has expanded its line of sauces, and Campbell, which introduced the Healthy Request line of canned sauces this year. Del Monte Foods, the country's leading vegetable processor, is about to come out with a line of pasta sauces.
At the same time, there still seems to be room for fledgling companies with humble beginnings and a family recipe, like the Cantisanos of Ragu. For example, in 1985 Frank Dell'Amore could no longer keep up with customers' requests to buy the homemade tomato sauce that he was serving in his pizzeria, Filomena's, in Burlington, Vt. So he began commercially bottling the sauce, which is based on his grandmother's recipe.
In the last year Dell'Amore Enterprises has sold $300,000 worth of sauce in jars bearing a wistful photograph of Mr. Dell'Amore's grandmother, Filomena d'Agosto, when she was 19 years old. Those sales were 30 percent higher than the previous year and meant peeling more than 300 pounds of garlic a month by hand. The distribution area of the sauce has expanded from the Burlington area to the entire Northeast and beyond.
Because it takes time to peel garlic and cook tomatoes, many people prefer opening a jar of prepared sauce to starting from scratch. Even though Campbell reported that 60 percent of the time, consumers add ingredients instead of using the sauce direct from the jar, it takes less time to add some seasonings than to cook a pot of tomatoes, even canned ones.
Convenience aside, it does not require a Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science or a Nobel Prize in Medicine to understand that pasta topped with sauce provides, at modest expense, a filling meal that is longer on carbohydrates than fat. Consumers have long known that spaghetti with tomato sauce is one of the cheapest mealtime options. Lately, they have also realized it's healthy.
While many commercial pasta sauces derive around 50 percent of their calories from fat, once the portion of pasta is factored in, the total drops to 25 percent or less. "Last year we reduced the oil so that only 30 percent of the calories in Prego sauces come from fat," said Marsha Cade, the director of corporate communications for Campbell. "And we are looking at even lower levels with any new products we introduce." Mr. Gennari said Ragu's research showed that about 19 percent of consumers want a sauce that specifically addresses health concerns.
In style and flavor, the pasta sauces lining store shelves these days offer something for everyone. And just as the almost endless growth of pasta flavors shows no sign of winding down, there is no indication that the saturation point has been reached when it comes to sauce flavors.
Routine tomato, meat and mushroom sauces have been joined by garden vegetable, pesto, walnut, creamy Alfredo, four-cheese, puttanesca, roasted pepper and primavera, to name a few. Ragu alone has two dozen flavors grouped in six different styles, with more to come.
Until the 1980's, commercial spaghetti sauces were smooth, with a uniform texture usually made by diluting tomato paste with water. But then they began appearing in a chunkier style, with pieces of whole tomato. The smooth consistency more closely imitated sauce that had simmered for hours, while the chunky style seemed fresher. Extra-thick is another variety of sauce now on the market.
Celebrities including Paul Newman, Frank Sinatra and Tommy Lasorda also have their faces on jars of spaghetti sauce.
In recent years some companies, like Progresso, have added lines of more expensive sauces with distinctive ingredients and stylish packaging to complement the standard, old-fashioned kind. The Classico brand, packed in canning jars and now sold nationally by Borden, is another example of fancier pasta sauce.
Most of the old-fashioned commercial pasta sauces are sweetened, usually with corn syrup, to mellow the often harsh or bitter flavor of tomato paste. With the current trend toward a fresher style using whole tomatoes, many brands have now eliminated the sweeteners.
In a sampling of sauces in just one category -- marinara -- the range of flavors and the variety of ingredients were astonishing. The sampling encompassed 16 brands, covering many of the biggest producers and some small ones. Although many sauces labeled tomato or tomato and garlic are essentially the same as the marinara sauces, these were not included.
The term marinara has undergone an evolution. In Italian it simply means "of the sea," or fisherman style. In fact, the authoritative Italian cookbooks, by writers like Giuliano Bugialli and Marcella Hazan, don't even mention marinara sauce.
In his book "Eat Right, Eat Well, the Italian Way" (Alfred A. Knopf, 1985), Edward Giobbi included a recipe for marinara sauce made with tomatoes, basil, garlic, carrots, onion and oil. "I have never seen this sauce printed in an Italian cookbook," he said.
As they are understood today, marinara sauces are tomato-based and meatless. "In talking with members of my family, it seems that Italian immigrants began using the term marinara to describe a sauce that was meatless, to serve on Fridays, but not necessarily with fish in it," Mr. Dell'Amore said. "In the old days it may have been the sauce that people cooked clams or squid in, and some people also put anchovies in it."
Contadina, the leading maker of refrigerated sauce, has anchovies in its marinara sauce. "It's of the sea," said Dawn Caldwell, the brand manager. "Ours is the most authentic marinara sauce."
But authenticity may be beside the point, now that manufacturers of salsas, salad dressings and Asian seasonings have gone into the pasta-sauce business. Roasted chili, Southwestern black bean, creole, Thai peanut and other non-Italian sauces are now appearing.
If pasta consumption increases in this country as much as expected by the end of the decade -- something like 50 percent -- it seems that the sauce makers will keep right in step. As long as they keep peeling that garlic.
Not All Sauces Grow in Cans
 
Marinara Sauce
Adapted from "We Called It Macaroni" by Nancy Verde Barr (Alfred A. Knopf, 1990)
Total time: 50 minutes
 
 1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
2 small cloves garlic, minced
4 1/2 cups peeled, seeded and chopped fresh plum tomatoes, or drained canned plum tomatoes
Salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste
2 tablespoons minced fresh basil.
 1. Gently heat the oil and garlic in a heavy saucepan and cook just until the garlic is golden. Remove from heat.
2. Chop the tomatoes very fine by hand, or in a food processor or a blender. Add them to the pan and season with salt and pepper. Simmer about 30 minutes, until the sauce is reduced somewhat and the oil separates from the tomatoes. The sauce should be thick enough to hold its shape on a spoon.
3. Stir in the basil, check seasonings, and cook 5 minutes longer.
Yield: 3 1/2 cups (about 6 servings).
Approximate nutritional analysis per serving: 115 calories, 10 grams fat, no cholesterol, 25 milligrams sodium (before salting), 2 grams protein, 8 grams carbohydrate.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Through Thick and Thin" lists various brands of pasta sauce, their price per ounce, the texture and comments on each sauce. (pg. C6)
 
Drawing (pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CPB (NYSE) (82%); UNIA (AMS) (56%); UNA (BIT) (56%); UNA (AMS) (56%); UN (NYSE) (56%); ULVR (LSE) (56%); UL (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311422 SPECIALTY CANNING (82%); SIC2032 CANNED SPECIALTIES (82%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (56%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2047 DOG & CAT FOOD (56%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (56%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (56%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BURLINGTON, VT, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: CAMPBELL SOUP CO (82%); DEL MONTE FOODS CO (56%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); VERMONT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: PASTA; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING; SAUCES; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS PASTA & NOODLES (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); GRANDPARENTS (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (76%); MARKET SHARE (74%); BRAND EQUITY (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (68%); PASTA & NOODLE MFG (58%); 

PERSON: FABRICANT, FLORENCE MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1992



939 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 19; Column 1; Cultural Desk; Word and Image Page

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: Books of The Times;
The Private Budget Deficit of America's Families

BYLINE: By HERBERT MITGANG

 BODY:
The Forgotten Americans
By John E. Schwarz and Thomas J. Volgy
219 pages. W. W. Norton. $19.95.
Right up to the eve of the Presidential election, the key word in the campaign has been jobs: keeping them and creating them. But something much deeper runs through "The Forgotten Americans," a timely book that goes to the heart of the changing work ethos in the United States. Its important revelations promise to challenge the conscience of Washington for a very long time. 
 In "The Forgotten Americans," John E. Schwarz and Thomas J. Volgy, political science professors at the University of Arizona, follow the trailblazing path of Michael Harrington's "Other America," a book that helped to spur the war against poverty during the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations. In that landmark study, Mr. Harrington wrote: "The other America, the America of poverty, is hidden today in a way that it never was before. Its millions are socially invisible to the rest of us."
While not as hortatory as the Harrington book, "The Forgotten Americans" is even more telling three decades later because it includes members of the middle class as well as the recognizable poor. For what Professors Schwarz and Volgy emphasize in their book is that "America may not be the land of opportunity it claims to be, not even for people who are diligent, responsible workers."
Something's amiss in the American dream, the authors say, when tens of millions of people work hard, sometimes hold down two jobs, put in long hours of overtime (wives as well as husbands in many two-income families), yet cannot afford the basic necessities of food, housing, clothing and medical care. Taking the family out to dinner? Going to the movies? These are luxuries possible a few times a year, if at all.
The real people whose lives are described through interviews in "The Forgotten Americans" don't sound as if they are much concerned about the Federal deficit. They leave the impression that the billion-dollar numbers are for the big boys in government to worry about. What's foremost on their minds is their own home deficit.
In addition to case histories that help to humanize "The Forgotten Americans," Professors Schwarz and Volgy (a former Mayor of Tucson, Ariz.) support their findings with statistics drawn from census figures, tax records, nutrition information from the Agriculture Department, employment records from the Labor Department, and housing and education surveys by government and industry. The hard numbers in "The Forgotten Americans" add up to a devastating portrait: of families outwardly prosperous -- owning a car, a small house or apartment, a television set, electrical appliances -- but below the surface, struggling to keep up with the Joneses, who are broke, too.
The authors cite the Federal Government's conflicting figures. The poverty line for a family of four is $13,360 a year according to the Census Bureau and $15,323 a year according to the Department of Labor. But just to cover bare necessities, a truer figure for the family's annual budget is $20,700, and even that doesn't provide for a decent level of existence. Nearly 30 million people fall into the authors' description of Americans who have been left behind by the faltering economy. Some are now categorized as the "new poor": middle-class citizens who have lost their jobs and must turn to charity for food, clothing and housing.
Whether a family is ranked as poor or lower middle class, what is it like to live on a minimal budget?
The authors say: "Members of families existing on the economy budget never go out to eat, for it is not included in the food budget; they never go out to a movie, concert or ball game or indeed to any public or private establishment that charges admission, for there is no entertainment budget; they have no cable television, for the same reason; they never purchase alcohol or cigarettes; never take a vacation or holiday that involves any motel or hotel or, again, any meals out." And, of course, there's no leeway to buy books, including this one that explains their plight.
"The Forgotten Americans" is better at clarifying the problems of the visible and invisible poor than at providing strong solutions. That puts the authors in the same boat as the Presidential candidates. Nevertheless, Professors Schwarz and Volgy do offer some specifics: A moderate increase in the minimum wage (from $4.25 to $4.85 an hour), coupled with some type of income supplement; an expansion of special tax credits for fully employed workers, and affordable health insurance for workers who don't have any.
The book's main achievement is to show that it is possible for tens of millions of Americans to believe in the work ethic, do their best on the job and still not quite make it in the land of opportunity. In this respect, the conclusions in "The Forgotten Americans" fly in the face of those who have cosmeticized the true state of the economy during the Presidential campaign.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: FORGOTTEN AMERICANS, THE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (92%); 

CITY: TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (58%); UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); FAMILY (89%); BUDGETS (88%); BUDGET DEFICITS (85%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); WRITERS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (66%); OVERTIME (64%); CENSUS (50%); 

PERSON: MITGANG, HERBERT; SCHWARZ, JOHN E; VOLGY, THOMAS J JOHN F KENNEDY (56%); JOHN F KENNEDY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1992



940 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 218 words

HEADLINE: Skandia Reinsurance Cuts

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The troubled reinsurer Skandia American Reinsurance Corporation is redirecting its business focus and will cut its premium volume in certain areas, moves that are likely to result in layoffs.
Skandia, the eighth-largest reinsurer in the nation and a unit of Sweden's Skandia Group Insurance Company, said on Monday that its parent company's capital position had been eroded by "economic turmoil in Europe and Scandinavia with increased interest rates, declining real estate values and ailing stock markets." 
 The company said it would focus on casualty treaty and casualty facultative business. Treaty reinsurance involves covering multiple risks within one category, like fire coverage. Facultative reinsurance involves covering a single risk or event, like the Super Bowl.
Rumors have been circulating for weeks that Skandia, which employs about 350 people in the United States, would announce layoffs. A Skandia spokeswoman, Susan Young, said the "implication is that the organization will be tailored to meet the reduced level of volume."
She said the company is still "formulating its implementation plans."
Last week the company rejected a $500 million takeover bid from John Head & Partners, a New York-based investment partnership. Skandia gave no reason for turning down the bid.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); SWEDEN (91%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SKANDIA AMERICAN REINSURANCE CORP SKANDIA GROUP INSURANCE CO LTD (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: SKANDIA AMERICAN REINSURANCE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); SWEDEN (91%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (72%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: REINSURANCE (93%); LAYOFFS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); INSURANCE (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); REAL ESTATE (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1992



941 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1396 words

HEADLINE: Business Technology;
Seeking Concrete's Cause of Death

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Oct. 22

 BODY:
Mauro J. Scali stared suspiciously at the image on his video screen. It looked like a well-marbled block of pate, but was actually a magnified view of a concrete sample sawed a few days earlier from a defective slab outside a warehouse in Virginia.
"I'd rather not say exactly where," said Mr. Scali, whose work as a coroner of concrete requires considerable discretion -- and the occasional legal deposition. He would not identify the client, either, but his samples usually come from the ready-mix supplier or the contractor, often arriving by overnight mail and sometimes by anxious courier. 
 Whether this sample would lead to a lawsuit was not clear, but it was obvious to Mr. Scali why the top half-inch of concrete had begun peeling off soon after the concrete was poured, leaving a rough surface. No bubbles were visible in the uppermost layer, he said, a clue that workmen had troweled the upper surface too early, before it had time to partly set, making it weaker.
 
 
New Focus on What's Underfoot
 As a topic, concrete may seem as pedestrian as the sidewalks underfoot. But the technology is gaining new attention in light of the public-policy focus on infrastructure, which in many cases is no more than a fancy term for concrete.
Mr. Scali, who runs part of a concrete-analysis laboratory here operated by W. R. Grace & Company, is a petrographer, a profession that derives its name from the Greek roots for "rock" and "record." His work seems far removed from the messy world of concrete, a business in which the product moves from big, messy plants into big, messy trucks and then to big, messy construction sites.
Far from the madding slop, Mr. Scali's labors are clean and precise, employing tools like electron microscopes, computer-driven infrared spectrometers, and even equipment for preparing concrete specimens half the thickness of a human hair, for examination under a microscope. There are also experiments with unexpected materials, from corn syrup and soaps to plastics.
Concrete -- whose basic ingredients are cement, sand, gravel and water -- is a material seldom noted for innovation. The industry is understandably conservative, because whatever errors it makes are literally set in stone, causing problems for years. But it is the job of Mr. Scali, along with others in the lab, to try out new formulas developed by the company's researchers. It is also his duty to conduct post-mortems on concrete that has met a premature demise.
In seeking the cause of the fault in the Virginia slab, Mr. Scali noted that the workers might have had a legitimate excuse. The lower portion of the sample showed excessive air bubbles, and when concrete is made with too much air, it bleeds out excess water only very slowly and can cause the surface to begin drying too soon. When the surface of the slab dried early, because of retarded bleeding, the workers probably concluded that it was ready to be troweled -- creating the fatal flaw.
W. R. Grace is one of two big concerns in the concrete additive business; the other is Master Builders Inc. of Cleveland, a subsidiary of Sandoz Chemical Ltd. A number of companies play smaller roles.
In public works, like roads and bridges, the biggest issue is corrosion, not of the concrete, but of the steel reinforcing bar, an essential ingredient that has vastly increased the usefulness of concrete.
The problem is that even well-mixed, well-poured concrete is porous. Road salt, which came into widespread use in the early 1960's, gradually sinks in, as does sea water in coastal locations. When salt corrodes steel, the rust that results occupies four times the volume of the steel it replaces, and breaks the surrounding concrete.
Road salt has been in wide use since the early 1960's, but there is no consensus yet on the antidote. Grace's approach, which it has been testing since the 1970's, is a calcium nitrite solution that it makes and that is added to concrete as it is made. The additive helps keep a patina of oxidized material on the steel-reinforcing bar that prevents deeper corrosion. Testing formulations, Grace keeps hundreds of bars, each in a concrete cylinder, soaking in warm basins of salty water for years.
The laboratory here tortures concrete in other ways, in chambers that alternately freeze and thaw the concrete in damp conditions, and others in which workers try to set concrete at 20 or 100 degrees Fahrenheit, at varying levels of humidity. The building, incongruously, is faced in corrugated steel; executives said Grace preferred to spend its money on personnel and equipment than on fancy quarters for petrography and testing.
 
 
Coating Bars With Epoxy
 Additives like those made by Grace and Sandoz are not the most frequently used technique in the struggle against corrosion. The leading approach, one favored by the steel industry, is to coat the reinforcing bars with epoxy. But Grace and other proponents of additives say that installing such bars without damaging the epoxy, by nicking the coating or bending the bars, is impossible.
But the epoxy proponents have an advantage, acknowledged Thomas G. Weil, a product manager at Grace. "It's very simple," he said. "You can see it. There it is." In contrast, anti-corrosion additives do not change the appearance of concrete. Design engineers make the decision, he said, and most of them have had no chemistry lessons since college.
The Concrete Reinforcing Steel Institute, a trade association in Schaumburg, Ill., recently hired a consultant to prepare a report showing the superiority of epoxy, then sued him in Federal court when his report said that the epoxy could not protect the reinforcing bars for as long as it was supposed to.
The two methods are not mutually exclusive. John Mullarky, first vice president of the National Ready-Mixed Concrete Association, said many builders use epoxy on the reinforcing bars and add anticorrosives to the concrete. "We have a lot of belt-and-suspenders people in the industry," he said. "They'll do everything."
 
 
Stronger and Denser
 Another approach to slowing corrosion is to make the concrete denser, a technique that also makes concrete stronger. Grace is one of several manufacturers of additives to do so, changing the way concrete has historically been mixed.
The chemical reaction by which concrete forms, absorbing hydrogen and forming very strong crystals, requires 30 pounds of water per 100 pounds of cement, but typically much more is added, to assure that all of the cement comes in contact with water, and to keep the concrete soft long enough to spread it into the forms. The problem is that when the concrete is hard, some of the extra water, called water of convenience, remains, and as it dries it leaves voids.
Grace and others make additives to facilitate mixing, so that the water-to-cement level can be closer to the optimum. They also use additives to retard the hardening process. These include corn syrup and molasses.
But this still leaves a substantial amount of empty space in the concrete. In concrete used outdoors, some empty space is essential, to leave voids that ice will fill as it expands from water. But it makes the concrete too weak to be a replacement for structural steel. So users of concrete have turned to other additives, like silica. Grace makes one that is 100 times smaller than concrete grains, to fill up the space between the grains.
 
 
Concrete Skeleton
 As a result, newer buildings have been constructed using concrete with a strength of 20,000 pounds a square inch; the typical compression strength a decade ago was 5,000 pounds a square inch. Turner Construction built a 56-story office building, 2 Union Square in Seattle, using such concrete, substituting steel-reinforced concrete for a steel skeleton. The project manager, Marvin D. Doster, said that still stronger concretes are on the horizon.
Mr. Mullarky, of the ready-mixed concrete association, said the competition with steel in the construction business is muted now because the recession has so curtailed new building. But progress in concrete, he said, "has already driven the steel industry to talk about making stronger steel."
Mr. Scali, for his part, said his lab's goal was to make concrete long-lasting and predictable, so people will think better of it -- "if they think of it at all."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mauro J. Scali, a petrographer, holds samples in the concrete-analysis laboratory he operates for W.R. Grace in Cambridge, Mass. (Matthew L. Wald for The New York Times) (pg. C1); An electron microscope shows a view of the bonding that occurs when sand reacts with ater to create concrete. W.R. Grace is using additives like corn syrup and molasses to help retard the hardening process. (W.R.Grace) (pg. D7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY PAGE (NYT)

TICKER: GRA (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2819 INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: GRACE, W R, & CO W R GRACE & CO (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: GRACE, W R, & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: CONCRETE; RESEARCH AUTOPSIES (76%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (71%); SPECTROSCOPES & SPECTROMETERS (71%); DEPOSITIONS (71%); TEST LABORATORIES (70%); ELECTRON MICROSCOPES (62%); POURED CONCRETE CONTRACTORS (57%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L; SCALI, MAURO J MAURO J SCALI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1992



942 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 299 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Has Mixed Session, Interrupting Recent Rally

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar was mixed against major currencies yesterday in a pause in its upward climb of recent days.
Gold fell. At the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current delivery dropped $3.70 an ounce, to $337.40. The Republic National Bank in New York quoted a late bid for gold at $337.25, down $3.25 from Monday. 
 Andrew Hodge, a vice president at Bank Brussels Lambert, said the dollar's climb was stopped temporarily because "it's had about all the run it could take."
"It's played itself out on a temporary basis," Mr. Hodge added. "It's going to go higher, but not today."
He said the dollar did not react to economic news reported during the trading day. The Conference Board's consumer confidence index fell to an eight-month low in October and the gross domestic product showed a stronger-than-expected 2.7 percent growth rate in the July-September quarter.
"The market couldn't do anything with that today," Mr. Hodge said, adding that the dollar's slide against the German mark was a correction "that was more than warranted."
"We just had a countertrend the day before we resume the climb in the dollar," he said.
In New York, the dollar rose to a closing 122.15 Japanese yen, up from 121.85 late Monday. Overnight in Tokyo, the dollar rose to a closing 122.28 Japanese yen from 121.62 yen at Monday's close. Later, in London, it rose to 122.45 yen.
The British pound fell in New York to $1.5775 from $1.5842 late Monday. In London, it fell to $1.5845 from $1.5855 late Monday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late rates Monday, included 1.5285 German marks, down from 1.5305; 1.3595 Swiss francs, down from 1.3645; 5.1860 French francs, down from 5.1900; 1,327 Italian lire, up from 1,320.5, and 1.23605 Canadian dollars, down from 1.24375.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (58%); HSB (PAR) (58%); HBC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (68%); UNITED KINGDOM (66%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (66%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); ING BELGIUM SA/NV (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (68%); UNITED KINGDOM (66%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (66%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); GERMAN MARK (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); BRITISH POUND (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); 

PERSON: ANDREW HODGE (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1992



943 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 399 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Xerox Reports 3d-Period Net Advanced 12%

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

DATELINE: STAMFORD, Conn., Oct. 27

 BODY:
The Xerox Corporation reported that third-quarter net income rose 12 percent on sales of new products, including the Docutech Publishing Series and a color copier.
Net income at the business-machines and financial-services company climbed to $135 million, or $1.18 a share, from $121 million, or $1.06 a share, in the year-earlier quarter. Revenue rose 4.9 percent, to $4.49 billion from $4.28 billion. 
 Xerox's profits lagged behind the mean estimate of $1.35 a share in a Zacks Investment Research survey of seven analysts. Its stock fell $2.25 yesterday, to $76, in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
 
Focusing Financial Services
 Paul Allaire, chairman and chief executive, said Xerox's document-processing strategy and product-introduction schedule met with "excellent customer reception" despite difficult economic conditions in the United States, Europe, Japan and Brazil.
Mr. Allaire also said the company continued to narrow the focus of its financial services businesses; in those lines, quarterly earnings climbed to $7 million from $4 million. The efforts include an extensive restructuring at Crum & Forster, a property-casualty insurance unit.
In line with the restructuring, Xerox posted $444 million in capital gains during the quarter, as Crum & Forster shortened the duration of its fixed-income securities to minimize rate fluctuations on invested assets. The gains were offset by provisions of an equal amount to strengthen the balance sheet for future restructuring actions.
Crum & Forster is looking at ways to restructure its operations and will make additional provisions during the fourth quarter, Xerox said. The amount has not been determined.
In the last two years, Crum & Forster sold a specialty personal lines underwriter and withdrew from standard personal property and casualty insurance lines as it began to concentrate on more profitable lines and geographic segments, Xerox said. The insurer also reduced staff 30 percent.
Crum & Forster reported $30 million in pretax losses from Hurricanes Andrew and Iniki.
Asset management and investment banking continued to benefit from strong markets, higher mutual fund fees and capital gains at Xerox Life, the company said. In Xerox's document-processing business, third-quarter profit increased to $128 million from $117 million, as revenue rose to $3.6 billion from $3.3 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: XRX (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: XEROX CORP XEROX CORP (93%); ZACKS INVESTMENT RESEARCH INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: XEROX CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (75%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PHOTOCOPIER MFG (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (87%); LAYOFFS (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); PHOTOCOPIERS (78%); INSURANCE (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (75%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); INSURANCE UNDERWRITING (52%); 

PERSON: PAUL A ALLAIRE (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1992



944 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
BMW Puts Account In Review

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
BMW of North America Inc. said yesterday that it would place its account in review. The account, estimated at $80 million to $85 million, has been at Ammirati & Puris Inc. in New York a month shy of 18 years.
The unexpected disclosure was followed by one just as startling: Although BMW asked Ammirati to participate in the review, the agency, which created the "Ultimate driving machine" identity for the German maker of luxury cars, declined. 
 The twin surprises typify current turmoil between car makers and their agencies as the weak economy and intensifying competition roil relationships. Even General Motors, which has not dismissed an agency since the Eisenhower Administration, has its Oldsmobile account in review; in that instance, the incumbent, Leo Burnett U.S.A. in Chicago, decided to participate.
BMW becomes the sixth auto maker to place an account in review in the last 18 months, even though, unlike the other five, its sales have been rising, up 27 percent for the first nine months. Four of those reviews -- American Isuzu, Jaguar Cars, Mercedes-Benz of North America and Subaru of America -- ended with longtime shops dismissed.
That tumult is a primary reason Ammirati, which is known for stylishly understated campaigns for clients including Nikon, RCA and United Parcel Service, chose not to participate in the review on what has been its largest account. With so much automotive business in flux, the agency believes it can snare another account more easily than go through the arduous process of trying to keep a restless client.
"It's part of the BMW philosophy to constantly challenge ourselves to do better," Victor H. Doolan, executive vice president of sales and marketing at BMW in Woodcliff Lake, N.J., said in an interview yesterday.
"Perhaps that's what other large car companies should have done," he added, "like one in the news today" -- an allusion to G. M.
Yet the review is puzzling because BMW's sales gains so far this year have been among the most robust of any auto maker. BMW has even moved ahead of archrival Mercedes-Benz for the first time in American unit sales, 49,203 to 47,648 for the nine months.
Also, BMW's advertising, which has carried the "Ultimate driving machine" theme for nearly two decades, is among the best known in the automotive category. During the 1980's, campaigns played on the desire of free-spending young professionals, who coined the affectionate nickname "Beemer" for the marque, to buy cars emphasizing sporty performance over plush comfort. More recently, concerns that BMW was being perceived as a so-called yuppie-mobile led Ammirati to present it as an automobile for drivers who want to emphasize handling and control.
The risk, of course, is that changing agencies could prove disruptive. Mr. Doolan called it a risk worth taking because "the time is opportune to look at what's in the market and where to take BMW in the future."
"BMW always takes the view that we should never be complacent with our success," he added. And while BMW was "very sad to hear" that Ammirati withdrew from the review, he continued, "that's life; that's their prerogative."
Martin Puris, president and chief executive at Ammirati, was clearly eager to suggest that the arrival in March of Mr. Doolan, a former president of BMW's Canadian operations, precipitated the review.
"When a new sales and marketing executive comes in," Mr. Puris said, "he's a new client; you've got to win him over."
"But the first inkling we had of any difficulty," he added, was when Mr. Doolan visited Ammirati's office Monday to disclose the review.
"It was an absolute, total blindsiding," he continued. "The way in which it was done was as much a convincer as anything else that we didn't want anything to do with the review."
But Mr. Doolan said, "I don't think it has anything to do with my arrival." He added that "this decision was taken by BMW, not by myself." He called the review part of a worldwide re-examination of all operations by BMW's Stuttgart-based parent.
Mr. Puris, who is also chairman and chief executive at the November Company, the agency handling President Bush's re-election campaign advertising, was surprisingly chipper considering the departure of so significant an account.
"We have a rather good reputation in the automobile business," he explained, "and I wouldn't be surprised if we had the opportunity to handle another piece of business, whether it's now or next month or a year from now." He said the agency would "keep the BMW team together for the foreseeable future" and try to avoid laying off anyone who has worked on the account.
His equanimity also stemmed from an estimated $120 million in new billings recently awarded to Ammirati by Mastercard International and Compaq Computer, bringing the agency's total billings, including BMW, to an estimated $320 million.
Morgan, Anderson & Company, the consultant BMW hired for advice on its review, also consulted on the Mastercard and Compaq reviews.
Mr. Doolan declined to identify the 30 or more agencies that would be invited to participate in the review. He said he hoped to narrow them to four or five finalists by Dec. 15 and name a new agency by the end of January.
Participants are expected to include small to midsized, creatively focused agencies without automotive accounts. Many are also likely to be involved in the Oldsmobile review, like Deutsch Inc. and Jordan, McGrath, Case & Taylor in New York; Tatham Euro RSCG in Chicago, and W.B. Doner & Company in Southfield, Mich., and Baltimore.
Two other likely contenders are the previous agencies of two other European luxury cars: McCaffrey & McCall in New York, which lost Mercedes-Benz to Scali, McCabe, Sloves, and Geer, DuBois in New York, which lost Jaguar to Ogilvy & Mather New York.
Another likely candidate is Lord, Dentsu & Partners in Los Angeles and New York, which was rocked by the stunning disclosure Monday that the Mazda Motor Corporation was scrapping plans to introduce a luxury line called Amati. Lord, Dentsu was awarded Amati's account in January after a five-month review involving four other agencies.
And two finalists in a review for a newly formed metropolitan New York BMW dealer association might also participate in the corporate BMW review. They are Ally & Gargano and Cox Landey & Partners, both in New York.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Victor H. Doolan, left, an executive vice president of BMW, said, "It's part of the BMW philosophy to constantly challenge ourselves to do better." Despite sales growth, BMW and Martin Puris of Ammirati & Puris Inc., right, have ended their advertising partnership. (Star Black for The New York Times; Jim Salzano; Ammirati & Puris Inc.) (pg. 17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: BMW3 (FRA) (92%); BMW (BIT) (92%); GM (NYSE) (57%); UPS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS423120 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (82%); NAICS423110 AUTOMOBILE & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (82%); SIC5013 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS (82%); SIC5012 AUTOMOBILES & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES (82%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (55%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: AMMIRATI & PURIS INC; BMW OF NORTH AMERICA INC LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (93%); BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (92%); MERCEDES-BENZ USA INC (82%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMMIRATI & PURIS INC; BMW OF NORTH AMERICA INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; ADVERTISING; ACCOUNT CHANGES ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (79%); LUXURY GOODS (71%); INTERVIEWS (68%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART VICTOR H DOOLAN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1992



945 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: Mixed Yields for C.D.'s and Money Funds

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Yields offered on bank money market accounts and certificates of deposit were mixed in the week that ends today.
Analysts at The Bank Rate Monitor, a Florida-based interest rate publication, said that while money market accounts slipped again, yields on certificates of deposit, particularly six-month C.D.'s, were up nationwide. Robert K. Heady, the publisher of the rate publication, said that not since April 1990 had the yield on a six-month certificate risen as much as 4 basis points on The Monitor's index of 20 major banks nationwide. 
 "What we're now seeing is a mild upturn in short-term C.D. yields following last week's stall in the down slide," Mr. Heady said. "Chalk it up to the Clinton factor as the market anticipates his election and the coming increase in Government spending to reignite the economy, which will put upward pressure on interest rates."
A victory for President Bush would mean less of a rate rise because his spending programs would be more modest, Mr. Heady added.
"And if you remove the election from the equation altogether, rates would move lower simply on the market's attitute on the economy," Mr. Heady said.
At the Treasury's weekly auction of three- and six-month bills on Monday, average discount rates rose for the third consecutive week. The auction is often regarded as a reliable barometer of how banks could set deposit rates in the weeks ahead.
The average rate at auction for a three-month bill this week rose 3 basis points, to 2.97 percent, while the six-month bill rose 12 basis points, to 3.22 percent.
The combined New York area average for yields in the latest week was narrowly down, as the average money market account dropped 2 basis points, to 2.79 percent, and a three-month certificate of deposit slipped one basis point, to 2.85 percent. The yield on a six-month C.D. was unchanged at 3.01 percent.
Yields at commercial banks were mostly up, with a money market account unchanged at 2.63 percent, while a three-month certificate rose one basis point, to 2.77 percent, and six-month certificates gained 2 basis points, to 2.91 percent.
The largest yield adjustments this week were made at Anchor Savings, which reduced its money market account by 26 basis points, to 2.76 percent, and its three-month C.D. dropped by 16 basis points, to 2.89 percent. Key Bank, on the other hand, raised its six-month C.D. 30 basis points, to 3.14 percent.
Outside the New York market, yields at 20 large banks surveyed were mixed, with the average money market account down a basis point, to 2.68 percent, and a six-month C.D. up 4 basis points, to 2.91 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5023 HOME FURNISHINGS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: KEY BANK & TRUST (51%); KEY BANK LIFE INSURANCE LTD (51%); KEY BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION (51%); KEY BANK MANAGEMENT INSURANCE GROUP (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; STOCKS AND BONDS; CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (93%); INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (91%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BONDS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); PUBLISHING (72%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1992



946 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Confidence Dips Again

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Consumer confidence dropped in October for the fourth straight month, a private business group said yesterday, indicating that Americans are still deeply worried about the course of the economy.
Consumer confidence is now at its lowest point since February. Gains that occurred in the spring and summer have been erased as the economy has only slowly gained steam. 
 The Conference Board, a private business group based in New York, said its index of consumer confidence fell to 53 in October from 57.3 in September. The index uses a base of 100 in 1985.
 
Deferring Big Purchases
 The board found that one in three households surveyed said they had been significantly affected by the recession. The group surveys 5,000 households each month.
One in four said someone in their household had been unemployed in the last year. Of those who found new work, well over half took positions that paid less than their previous jobs, the conference board said.
Consumer opinions are a crucial component of the economy, for pessimism tends to cause people to keep a lid on spending. In the survey, 43 percent of consumers said they had put off a big purchase because of the economy.
In the survey, consumers continued to view the economy in a negative light. Fewer than one in 10 respondents said current business conditions were good; more than 4 in 10 said they were bad.
Consumers were especially worried about job prospects in the slow-growing economy. Only 5 percent of respondents said jobs were "plentiful," while almost 50 percent said they were "hard to get."
 
More Are Pessimistic
 Respondents were also more pessimistic about the coming six months than they were in September, the board said. Only 13 percent expect more jobs to be available six months from now, with nearly twice that level predicting fewer available jobs.
Only 16 percent expect business conditions to be "better" six months from now, fewer than in the prior survey.
The 4.3 point decline in the index in October was the largest since July, when the index dropped 11.4 points, to 61.2 from 72.6 in June.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CONFERENCE BOARD CONFERENCE BOARD INC (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE BOARD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (95%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); MARKET RESEARCH (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (75%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (74%); CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (74%); MARKETING SURVEYS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1992



947 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: For Congress From New York

 BODY:
New York has more unpredictable Congressional contests this year because of redistricting. Here are recommendations in some contested races in New York City and in districts that include city and suburban neighborhoods.
Fifth District (Queens, Nassau and Suffolk): Gary Ackerman, a Democrat, is running for a sixth term in a reapportioned district that now stretches into Long Island, well beyond his old Queens base. Mr. Ackerman worked effectively on famine relief and the plight of Ethiopian Jews, but his record is otherwise unremarkable. 
 His Republican opponent, the Suffolk County legislator Allan Binder, is a former Congressional aide who theorizes naively about complex matters like health care and the economy. Yet Mr. Binder has no patience for Congressional perks that infuriate voters, and has been a more thoughtful lawmaker than his rhetoric would suggest.
In a close call, we endorse Mr. Binder for the promise he offers of energetic representation.
13th District (Staten Island and Brooklyn): Susan Molinari's first-term performance has been disappointing, particularly on local issues. She is ambivalent on the issue of Staten Island's secession, a destructive concept, and her immoderate speech during the raucous police demonstration at City Hall last month showed poor judgment. In Washington, however, she remains a valuable commodity -- a moderate Republican who supports abortion rights.
Her opponent, Sal Albanese, is one of the City Council's brightest members, but his maverick style would likely weaken his effectiveness. We endorse Ms. Molinari with the hope that in the future she will provide a voice as constructive at home as it can be in Washington.
14th District (Manhattan, Queens and Brooklyn): Bill Green, who has long represented what is still the core of this district -- Manhattan's East Side -- is a Republican member of the Appropriations Committee, where he can push for New York's needs.
His industrious opponent, City Councilwoman Carolyn Maloney, has made a useful contribution by focusing on important issues like campaign finance reform and improving contract procedures. But Mr. Green has earned another term.
18th District (Westchester, the Bronx and Queens): The Democratic incumbent, Nita Lowey, faces a challenge from the Republican candidate she defeated four years ago, Joseph DioGuardi. We support Ms. Lowey, a hard-working lawmaker who has emphasized education and environmental issues. Mr. DioGuardi, an accountant, can point to few notable accomplishments during his two terms in Congress and accepts the designation of the one-issue Right to Life Party.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY ; NASSAU COUNTY (NY); SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY); STATEN ISLAND (NYC); BROOKLYN (NYC); MANHATTAN (NYC); QUEENS (NYC); WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); BRONX (NYC) UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; EDITORIALS; ENDORSEMENTS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); REDISTRICTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); SUBURBS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); COUNTIES (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); APPROPRIATIONS (73%); FAMINE (71%); ABORTION (65%); 

PERSON: BINDER, ALLAN E; ACKERMAN, GARY L (REPR); MOLINARI, SUSAN (REPR); ALBANESE, SAL (COUNCILMAN); GREEN, BILL (REPR); MALONEY, CAROLYN B (COUNCILWOMAN); LOWEY, NITA M (REPR) ; DIOGUARDI, JOSEPH J GARY L ACKERMAN (88%); NITA M LOWEY (78%); CAROLYN MALONEY (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1992



948 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 292 words

HEADLINE: Coming Soon: The Vietnam Peace

 BODY:
Confronted with evidence that its secret archives could shed light on the fate of Americans missing since the Vietnam War, Hanoi has finally opened those records. The Bush Administration can best reciprocate with two overdue steps of its own: Lift the U.S. veto on international bank lending to Vietnam, and establish diplomatic ties.
America's punitive policies toward Vietnam have done little to advance U.S. interests. Successive Administrations barred Americans from most commerce with Hanoi and pressed allies for similar restrictions. This boycott isolated Vietnam from the democratic ferment fostered by foreign trade and investment in Eastern Europe and China. 
 Hanoi blames America for this isolation. But Hanoi's own perverse behavior is as much to blame. Vietnam might have achieved normalization in the Carter years. Instead it demanded billions in reconstruction aid, not acknowledging its own brazen violations of the Paris peace agreements. Although Hanoi can claim some justification for invading Pol Pot's Cambodia in 1978, it can claim none for a 10-year occupation. And its long insistence that it was fully cooperating in the search for missing Americans now stands exposed as a lie.
Still, if Hanoi opens its archives the case for ending the boycott is strong. Vietnam now welcomes foreign investment and private entrepreneurship. It makes no sense to undermine those reforms by blocking World Bank loans, or to handicap U.S. businesses interested in this new market.
The case for diplomatic ties is also compelling. New political and economic channels can increase opportunities for raising issues that concern Americans. If both sides pursue this opening, the much-delayed Vietnam peace may finally be at hand.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); VIET NAM (93%); VIETNAM (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (92%); 

COMPANY: WORLD BANK (51%); PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VIETNAM UNITED STATES (98%); VIET NAM (93%); VIETNAM (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); HANOI, VIETNAM (92%); 

SUBJECT: VIETNAM WAR; ARCHIVES AND RECORDS; EDITORIALS; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-VIETNAM; DIPLOMATIC RECOGNITION; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSING IN ACTION; PRISONERS OF WAR ; CREDIT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); BOYCOTTS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%); 

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1992



949 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: The G.O.P. Won the Cold War? Ridiculous.

BYLINE: By George F. Kennan; George F. Kennan, professor emeritus at the Institute for Advanced Study, is author of the forthcoming "Around the Cragged Hill: A Personal and Political Philosophy."

DATELINE: PRINCETON, N.J.

 BODY:
The claim heard in campaign rhetoric that the United States under Republican Party leadership "won the cold war" is intrinsically silly.
The suggestion that any Administration had the power to influence decisively the course of a tremendous domestic political upheaval in another great country on another side of the globe is simply childish. No great country has that sort of influence on the internal developments of any other one. 
 As early as the late 1940's, some of us living in Russia saw that the regime was becoming dangerously remote from the concerns and hopes of the Russian people. The original ideological and emotional motivation of Russian Communism had worn itself out and become lost in the exertions of the great war. And there was already apparent a growing generational gap in the regime.
These thoughts found a place in my so-called X article in Foreign Affairs in 1947, from which the policy of containment is widely seen to have originated. This perception was even more clearly expressed in a letter from Moscow written in 1952, when I was Ambassador there, to H. Freeman Matthews, a senior State Department official, excerpts from which also have been widely published. There were some of us to whom it was clear, even at that early date, that the regime as we had known it would not last for all time. We could not know when or how it would be changed; we knew only that change was inevitable and impending.
By the time Stalin died, in 1953, even many Communist Party members had come to see his dictatorship as grotesque, dangerous and unnecessary, and there was a general impression that far-reaching changes were in order.
Nikita Khrushchev took the leadership in the resulting liberalizing tendencies. He was in his crude way a firm Communist, but he was not wholly unopen to reasonable argument. His personality offered the greatest hope for internal political liberalization and relaxation of international tensions.
The downing of the U-2 spy plane in 1960, more than anything else, put an end to this hope. The episode humiliated Khrushchev and discredited his relatively moderate policies. It forced him to fall back, for the defense of his own political position, on a more strongly belligerent anti-American tone of public utterance.
The U-2 episode was the clearest example of that primacy of military over political policy that soon was to become an outstanding feature of American cold war policy. The extreme militarization of American discussion and policy, as promoted by hard-line circles over the ensuing 25 years, consistently strengthened comparable hard-liners in the Soviet Union.
The more America's political leaders were seen in Moscow as committed to an ultimate military rather than political resolution of Soviet-American tensions, the greater was the tendency in Moscow to tighten the controls by both party and police, and the greater the braking effect on all liberalizing tendencies in the regime. Thus the general effect of cold war extremism was to delay rather than hasten the great change that overtook the Soviet Union at the end of the 1980's.
What did the greatest damage was not our military preparations themselves, some of which (not all) were prudent and justifiable. It was rather the unnecessarily belligerent and threatening tone in which many of them were publicly carried forward. For this, both Democrats and Republicans have a share of the blame.
Nobody -- no country, no party, no person -- "won" the cold war. It was a long and costly political rivalry, fueled on both sides by unreal and exaggerated estimates of the intentions and strength of the other party. It greatly overstrained the economic resources of both countries, leaving both, by the end of the 1980's, confronted with heavy financial, social and, in the case of the Russians, political problems that neither had anticipated and for which neither was fully prepared.
The fact that in Russia's case these changes were long desired on principle by most of us does not alter the fact that they came -- far too precipitately -- upon a population little prepared for them, thus creating new problems of the greatest seriousness for Russia, its neighbors and the rest of us, problems to which, as yet, none of us have found effective answers.
All these developments should be seen as part of the price we are paying for the cold war. As in most great international conflicts, it is a price to be paid by both sides. That the conflict should now be formally ended is a fit occasion for satisfaction but also for sober re-examination of the part we took in its origin and long continuation. It is not a fit occasion for pretending that the end of it was a great triumph for anyone, and particularly not one for which any American political party could properly claim principal credit.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR) UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; HISTORY CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (66%); 

PERSON: KENNAN, GEORGE F NIKITA KHRUSHCHEV (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1992



950 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: U.S. ECONOMY GREW AT A RATE OF 2.7% DURING 3D QUARTER

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 27

 BODY:
The economy grew at a surprisingly brisk pace of 2.7 percent in the July-September period, the Commerce Department reported today. This was the sixth consecutive quarterly advance in gross domestic product, the most comprehensive measure of economic activity within American borders.
The dollar value of the output surpassed the pre-recession peak registered in the 1990 second quarter. 
 President Bush and other Republicans immediately seized on the figures, which are the final important set of numbers to be published before Election Day, to contend that the economy was shaking off its lethargy and that the United States would "lead the world to recovery."
"We have now had six straight quarters of growth in the United States," Mr. Bush said as he campaigned through Iowa, Kentucky and Ohio. "And yet the Democrats keep telling us that everything is going to hell. And they're wrong." [Page A16.]
 
 
Less Optimistic View
 Democrats offered a far less optimistic view. Ronald H. Brown, the chairman of the Democratic National Committee, said Mr. Bush's reaction was "another example of a failed President grasping at straws."
And specialists working in the campaign of Gov. Bill Clinton, the Democratic nominee, noted that growth in the last six quarters had averaged 1.8 percent -- less than one-third the rate for comparable periods in the other eight postwar recoveries. They said the third-quarter advance could not be sustained.
The conventional view of campaign strategists and political scientists is that voters' perceptions of the state of the economy are formed and change slowly and that it is too late for new economic data to alter the way people will vote next week. Some Republican economists acknowledged as much when asked about today's output figures.
 
Central Issue
 Yet this year's campaign has changed course so many times and President Bush's handling of the economy is such a central issue that the political effect of the figures cannot be gauged with much confidence.
The G.D.P. data, moreover, were blunted by a separate report from the Conference Board, a corporate group, showing that consumer confidence fell in October for the fourth consecutive month. With a reading of 53, the index is now at its weakest level since February, which was the lowest point since the onset of recession in July 1990.
And other recent economic soundings have been decidedly mixed. A drop in first-time claims for jobless benefits to the lowest level in more than two years raised hopes last week that the job market had finally begun to improve, and retail sales have also ticked up recently. But the nation's trade deficit, reflecting economic slowdowns abroad, soared to $9 billion in September and industrial output has fallen two months in a row.
The National Bureau of Economic Research, the nation's business-cycle arbiter, has yet to formally declare the recession's end -- although most economists believe this occurred sometime in mid-1991.
While economists in general are inclined to favor Republicans -- though there are prominent exceptions -- most tended to agree with the Clinton forces today that the overall third-quarter G.D.P. results were not as strong as the 2.7 percent rate of expansion implied.
"This number is quite decent if it was sustainable," Dave Orr, chief economist for the First Union National Bank in Charlotte, said. "But it's not."
He and others cited in particular a sizable 3.4 percent rate of increase in what consumers spent on personal consumption, much of this on clothing, furniture and other household equipment and medical care. This was in contrast with a rate of decline of one-tenth of 1 percent for the second quarter.
But the figures also indicated that consumers were forced to draw down their savings to make these purchases since disposable personal income -- running at an annual rate of $3.6 trillion -- edged up a negligible $400 million and, on a per capita basis, no doubt fell.
The savings rate, meanwhile, dropped to 4.5 percent from 5.3 percent in the spring quarter, the Commerce Department's report showed.
Another significant source of numerical strength was a surge of 6.9 percent in the pace of Federal military spending. This was seen as an aberration since the preceding four quarters all showed big declines, averaging 8.8 percent.
No one interviewed today suggested that these or any of the other numbers in the report were "cooked" for political purposes, though one said the spending itself could possibly have been timed for maximum effect. Since these figures reflect actual delivery of goods, they were not affected by various military contracts the Administration announced recently to considerable campaign fanfare.
Economists skeptical about the sustainability of this summer's G.D.P. pace also pointed to a further buildup in business inventories, which rose at a $14.7 billion rate in the third quarter after an increase of $7.8 billion in the spring.
Inventories are subject to differing interpretations -- increases could result both from a buyers' strike or aggressive stocking by optimistic merchants -- but most analysts thought the third-quarter buildup was involuntary. Newly produced goods contribute to G.D.P. even if they languish on retail or wholesale shelves, but their existence also tends to retard future production.
Under Secretary of Commerce J. Antonio Villamil, however, said that the inventory-sales ratio remains low, "suggesting that additional increases in demand will be met primarily by production gains rather than inventory liquidation."
Business increased its investment in equipment, the report also showed, though this was said to consist mainly of computers and was not broadly based. And the international trade sector continued to drag down performance, with the department estimating a September deficit $200 million higher than August's $9 billion. Some considered this projection overly optimistic in light of significant weakening of foreign economies.
"There's really nothing here I'm impressed with," Lincoln F. Anderson, chief economist for Fidelity Management and Research in Boston said. "We won't get anywhere near 2.7 in the fourth quarter."
But there was one element in today's report, inflation, that was unambiguously good -- except that it was aided by a weak economy. As measured by the fixed-weight index, which assumes that the composition of output does not vary, inflation retreated to a 2.4 percent rate during the summer from 3.2 percent in the spring.
In a separate report today, the Labor Department said its Employment Cost Index rose seven-tenths of 1 percent in the third quarter, slightly less than in the four preceding quarters during which increases were either eight-tenths or nine-tenths of 1 percent.
Increases in wages and salaries decelerated to four-tenths of 1 percent from six-tenths of 1 percent, while benefit costs rose 1.5 percent after rising 1.1 percent in the second quarter.
The rise in G.D.P. -- the total value of the nation's output of goods and services, minus income from abroad -- was the fourth biggest of Mr. Bush's Presidency and nearly twice as big as the analysts' consensus. On the other hand, as the Clinton camp noted, it was only half the normal pace of the early stages of typical recoveries and short of the 3 percent pace considered necessary to push down the unemployment rate.
"Half the surge in demand came from people dipping into their savings," Gene Sperling, economic policy director for the Clinton campaign, said. "How encouraging is that?"
Data included in the G.D.P. for the third quarter follow, with all dollar amounts in billions at seasonally adjusted annual rates. Percentage changes are from the previous quarter at seasonally adjusted annual rates.

 	 	 		Last	Pct.	Current Prices	Quarter	Chg.	 	 	 	Gross Domestic Product	$5,967.1	4.5	Consumption	4,105.0	4.8	Business investment	544.5	-4.1	Inventory change	15.4	N.A.	Housing	217.0	4.2	Net exports	-37.3	N.A.	Government	1,122.5	4.9	Memo: Final sales*	5,951.7	2.1	 	 	 	1987 Prices	 	 	 	 	 	Gross Domestic Product	$4,924.5	2.7	Consumption	3,316.1	3.4	Business investment	515.1	0.3	Inventory Change	14.7	N.A.	Housing	191.4	0.4	Net exports	-51.5	N.A.	Government	938.8	2.0	Memo: Final sales*	4,909.8	2.1	G.D.P. price deflator	2.0	 	G.D.P. fixed-weighted price index	2.1.	 	
 
*G.D.P. less inventory change.
N.A. Data are not applicable.
Source: Commerce Department
 

GRAPHIC: Photo: In the Des Moines Civic Center in Iowa, President Bush spoke with supporters before leaving for Kentucky. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times) (pg. A1)
 
Chart: "Reading the Economic Tea Leaves"
 Selected indicators from the past month and how they augur.
 WEEKLY INITIAL CLAIMS FOR UNEMPLOYMENT -- 368,000 in week ending Oct. 10, 15,000 fewer than the prior week. (Announced Oct. 22.) -- GOOD.
 HOUSING STARTS -- Annual rate of 1.26 million in September, up from 1.24 million in August. (Oct. 20.) -- GOOD.
 INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION -- Down 0.2 percent in September, after a 0.4 percent fall in August. (Oct. 16.) -- BAD.
 MERCHANDISE TRADE DEFICIT -- $9.00 billion in August, up from $7.28 billion in July. (Oct. 16.) -- BAD.
 INFLATION -- Consumer prices rose only 0.2 percent in September, and rose at an annual rate of 2.9 percent during the first 9 months of the year. (Oct. 15.) -- GOOD.
 RETAIL SALES -- 0.3 percent increase in September after no change in August. (Oct. 14.) -- GOOD.
 UNEMPLOYMENT -- 7.5 percent in September, down from 7.6 percent in August and a June peak of 7.8 percent. But total nonfarm payrolls also fell. (Oct. 2.) -- MIXED.
 INDEX OF LEADING INDICATORS -- Down 0.2 percent in August, after a 0.1 percent increase in July. (Sept. 29.) -- BAD. (pg D5)
 
Graph: "Real Economic Growth" tracks annual rate of change in the gross domestic product, based on 1987 dollars, by quarter. (Source: Commerce Department) (pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; CONFERENCE BOARD H BROWN LTD (69%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; CONFERENCE BOARD US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IOWA, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (GNP); ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); ELECTIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); POLITICS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (75%); RETAIL SALES (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (63%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (50%); EMPLOYMENT (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1992



951 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 330 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Allied-Signal Has a Profit of $149 Million

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

DATELINE: MORRISTOWN, N.J., Oct. 27

 BODY:
Allied-Signal Inc. posted a profit for the third quarter, as the company's reorganization continued to pay off.
Allied-Signal, one of the nation's largest automotive and aerospace companies, said its net income was $149 million, or 99 cents a share. In the third quarter of 1991, the company took a charge against earnings of $661 million to cover restructuring and other costs and reported a loss for that quarter of $540 million.
Revenue for the most recent quarter edged up just 2 percent, to $2.94 billion, from $2.88 billion a year earlier.
"Our continued productivity gains, reduced cycle times and improved working capital turns have resulted in higher margins for our businesses despite slow growth in our global markets," Lawrence Bossidy, chairman and chief executive, said. 
 The results show the effects of a restructuring announced a year ago that analysts hailed as a necessary step toward reining in a company whose profits had been diluted by high costs and investment in research that took years to add to the bottom line.
"I'm really astonished at how well the company's done despite the recession," Michael Lauer, an analyst with Kidder, Peabody & Company, said.
Mr. Bossidy said 1992 earnings are expected to exceed previous forecasts of $3.60 to $3.85 a share, and some analysts recently raised their expectations to nearly $3.90 a share.
Profit margins grew by nearly half in the third quarter, to 7.1 percent from 5.1 percent, as net income in the automotive segment nearly doubled. Sales gains in automotive and engineered businesses were tempered by declines in military equipment and aviation, the company said.
In New York Stock Exchange trading today, Allied-Signal's stock slipped 62.5 cents a share, to $56.375.
Last October, Allied-Signal announced plans to lay off 14,000 employees, or 14 percent of its work force; close 10 plants; sell eight business units, and consolidate operations -- at a cost of $880 million before taxes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (71%); NEW JERSEY, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: ALLIED-SIGNAL INC KIDDER PEABODY & CO INC (68%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: ALLIED-SIGNAL INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); NEW JERSEY, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (89%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (89%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); PRODUCTIVITY (75%); MARKET SIZE (75%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (69%); WORKING CAPITAL (55%); EXECUTIVES (54%); 

PERSON: LAWRENCE A BOSSIDY (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1992



952 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
RJR Nabisco's Profit Rises 48% on Foreign Sales Strength

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
The RJR Nabisco Holdings Corporation reported a sharp 48 percent increase yesterday in third-quarter net income, helped in large part by strong foreign food and tobacco sales.
The consumer products giant, whose brands include Camel and Winston cigarettes, Oreo cookies and Planters peanuts, said its earnings had risen to $182 million, or 13 cents a share, from $123 million, or 7 cents a share, in the corresponding period a year ago. 
 Revenue totaled $4.02 billion, up 7 percent from $3.76 billion in last year's third quarter.
 
Retiring High-Interest Debt
 The earnings reported yesterday included a $70 million after-tax charge tied to the cost of repurchasing and retiring $511 million worth of high-interest debt. Without the one-time charge, RJR said it would have reported net income of $252 million.
A number of analysts said the results were slightly better than expected, but the reaction among investors was fairly tepid: the price of RJR's shares rose by only 12.5 cents a share, to $8.25, on the New York Stock Exchange.
"Shares have been soft, trading in sympathy with Philip Morris and American Brands," Jennifer M. Coury, an analyst at Lehman Brothers, wrote in a a report to clients. "We would be buyers of RJR Nabisco at these levels."
In the tobacco segment of RJR's business, responsible for three-quarters of the company's profits, analysts said they were pleased with the strong performance of RJR's cigarette brands in foreign markets. At home, a big jump in sales of cheaper private-label brands helped to offset slumping demand for the better-known and more expensive Camel, Winston and Salem cigarettes.
RJR's worldwide tobacco sales amounted to $2.33 billion in the third quarter, up 7 percent from a year ago, with most of the growth coming from abroad.
International net tobacco sales rose more than 14 percent during the quarter, to $736 million. Domestically, net sales rose a more modest 4.6 percent, to $1.59 billion. Meanwhile, the number of cigarettes sold in the United States rose 6 percent.
"The company did a fantastic job of increasing domestic cigarette volume, due in large part to a very sharp increase in private-label sales, which were up fourfold from a year ago,"said Roy Burry, an analyst at Kidder, Peabody & Company.
RJR's food businesses reported net sales of $1.69 billion, up 6 percent from the third quarter of 1991.
In a statement, the company said sales growth was strong in Latin America and modest in North America, "where the weak economy continued to restrain consumer spending."
The statement elaborated at some length on the company's continued efforts to pare its debt burden, which stood at $29.6 billion in February 1989 after the company was purchased by Kohlberg Kravis & Roberts.
During the quarter, RJR repurchased $100 million of 15 percent payment-in-kind debentures due in 2001, $44 million of its 17 3/8 percent senior converting debentures due 2009, $263 million of its 15 percent subordinated discount debentures due 2001 and $105 million of other debentures.
"We continued to take advantage of favorable market conditions in the quarter to replace high-cost debt with lower-cost debt," Louis V. Gerstner, Jr., RJR's chairman and chief executive, said in the release. "The refinancing of $2.8 billion that we have completed since the beginning of this year will produce significant interest savings for the company."
In the last three years, RJR has lopped off $15 billion worth of debt, largely by selling assets and buying back outstanding debt.
"Right now, their job first and foremost is to strengthen the balance sheet, and they are doing a great job of that," said Emanuel Goldman, an analyst at Paine Webber. "The recession is having an impact on industry after industry, and for now they just have to make it through a difficult period. We like the stock, and rate it attractive."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (90%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (62%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: RJR NABISCO HOLDINGS CORP KRAFT NABISCO (90%); KIDDER PEABODY & CO INC (62%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: RJR NABISCO HOLDINGS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (75%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); PRIVATE LABELS (89%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1992



953 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
The economy grew at a surprisingly brisk pace of 2.7 percent in the July-September period and surpassed its pre-recession peak for the first time. Republicans seized on the figures, contending that the economy was shaking off its prolonged lethargy, but Democrats offered a less optimistic view. [Page A1.]
Consumer confidence dropped in October for the fourth straight month, indicating that Americans are still deeply worried about the course of the economy. [D2.] 
 Records of New Medico Health Care were seized by the F.B.I. in an investigation of alleged health care fraud. [D3.]
Eighteen Senators asked private industry to voluntarily adopt rules to regulate a type of limited partnership. [D20.]
The company that processed suspicious Treasury futures trades last Thursday was cleared to resume trading. [D20.]
 
Companies
 Olympia & York filed a bankruptcy plan to turn the Canadian parent company over to creditors and leave control of U.S. operations with the Reichmann family. [D1.]
G.M. directors may have helped redefine the role of corporate boards in pressing for the resignation of the chairman. [D1.]
The board move that cost the chairman of G.M. his job was motivated by the deterioration of the company's finances. [D2.]
Bristol-Myers Squibb will sell Drackett, which makes Windex and Drano, to S.C. Johnson for $1.15 billion. [D3.]
Allied-Signal reported a 75 percent jump in third-quarter net income, as a reorganization continued to pay off. [D3.]
Xerox said third-quarter net income rose 12 percent on strong sales of new copier products. [D3.]
McDonnell Douglas reported a $15 million loss, mostly from a $269 million charge for the C-17 transport plane. [D3.]
RJR Nabisco reported a sharp increase in third-quarter net income, helped by strong foreign food and tobacco sales. [D4.]
USX-U.S. Steel posted a third-quarter loss and USX-Marathon, USX's oil operation, had sharply lower profits. [D4.]
Zenith reported deepening losses and said it planned to cut its domestic salaried work force of 2,600 by 15 percent. [D4.]
Warnaco had third-quarter earnings of $15.4 million, rebounding from a loss of $12.4 million last year. [D4.]
Citicorp will make more cost and staff cuts in 1993, the company's chairman, John Reed, said. [D4.]
 
Business Technology
Concrete may seem like a pedestrian subject, but the material is gaining new attention. [D1.]
 
International
The U.S. and Europe have made no progress in trade talks because each demands that the other make the first move. [D6.]
 
Markets
The bond market rallied -- precisely the opposite of what might have been expected given the day's economic news. [D1.]
The Dow industrials gave up 8.38 points, closing at 3,235.73, dragged down by G.M. and I.B.M. [D8.]
The dollar was mixed against major currencies and gold fell $3.70 an ounce. [D16.] Energy futures plunged. [D16.]
 
Today's Columns
Microsoft is enjoying a high stock price and strong earnings, but not everyone on Wall Street believes it will have such easy sledding in its new ventures. Market Place. [D8.]
BMW of North America placed its account, at Ammirati & Puris almost 18 years, in review. Even though Ammirati was invited to participate, it declined. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D1.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%); BMY (NYSE) (55%); X (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (53%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (53%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (53%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2342 BRASSIERES, GIRDLES, & ALLIED GARMENTS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: S C JOHNSON BENELUX SA (67%); CITIGROUP INC (56%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (55%); KRAFT NABISCO (53%); UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (53%); WARNACO GROUP INC (52%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLISH & SANITATION GOODS MFG (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); BONDS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); COMPANY LOSSES (74%); HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); PARENT COMPANIES (74%); FUTURES (74%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (74%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (70%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (69%); BOND MARKETS (69%); FOOD INDUSTRY (68%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (54%); 

PERSON: JACK REED (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1992



954 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: Study Finds Mortgage Bias

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 27

 BODY:
Mortgage applications from black and Hispanic borrowers are still rejected roughly twice as often as applications from whites and Asians, the Federal Reserve said today in its second annual report on lending discrimination.
Because of rising delinquency rates linked to the recession, lenders in 1991 denied a greater percentage of mortgage applications for all racial and ethnic groups than in 1990, the Federal Reserve said. But differences in rejection rates across groups appeared roughly the same, it said. 
 In 1991, lenders rejected 37.6 percent of the applications for conventional mortgages from blacks, 26.6 percent from Hispanics, 15 percent from Asian-Americans and 17.3 percent from whites.
A year earlier, the rejection rates were 33.6 percent for blacks, 21.4 percent for Hispanics, 12.8 percent for Asians and 14.2 percent for whites.
The agency said that some -- but not all -- of the discrepancy can be explained by income differences among the groups. However, disparities still were present when the applications were grouped by income.
For instance, among high-income applicants, the rejection rates were 9.7 percent for whites, 13.6 percent for Asians, 19.8 percent for Hispanics and 23.2 percent for blacks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (91%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; DISCRIMINATION; BLACKS (IN US); SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); MORTGAGES FAIR LENDING (91%); MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); RACE & RACISM (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); ETHNICITY (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1992



955 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 19; Column 1; Cultural Desk; Word and Image Page

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: Book Notes

BYLINE: Esther B. Fein

 BODY:
Printing Madonna
When Beacon Press tried recently to hire R. R. Donnelley & Sons, one of the country's largest printers, to print one of its books, "Gay Ideas: Outing and Other Controversies," by Richard Mohr, a professor of philosophy at the University of Illinois, the publishing house was turned down.
Too controversial, Beacon editors were told. Too sexually explicit. 
 A Donnelley vice president, Bill Flavell, defended the decision in an interview with National Public Radio in September, saying, "It is fairly standard that there are certain types of materials that Donnelley chooses not to get involved with, and that could be anything from seditious material to certain types of very sexually explicit material, for reasons primarily due to our employees' feelings about dealing with this type of material."
This month, a book printed by Donnelley is the hottest selling book in the country. It is Madonna's "Sex" (Warner Books), which features the now much discussed photos of her in a compromising position with a dog, sandwiched naked between an array of people and with a knife held to her crotch by a bald, tattooed lesbian.
 
Here's the Reason
 Defending the company's decision to print the Madonna book, Donnelley's vice president for corporate relations, James M. Ratcliffe, told The Boston Globe, "We can't reject work just because people might find it controversial."
Wendy Strothman, the director of Beacon, found Donnelley's sudden turnaround hypocritical and a sign of a general reluctance on the part of printers to deal with books on gay sexual themes when the job isn't lucrative enough to be worth the potential criticism from employees and from other customers.
Donnelley has turned down other books on gay topics. In 1984 a company representative told Alyson Publications that it would not print "I Once Had a Master," a collection of short stories by John Preston, because of the book's gay content. Last year, Alyson was rejected again by Donnelley when the publisher tried to hire the printer to produce "Gay Sex: A Manual for Men Who Love Men," because it was too sexually explicit.
"It looks as if they have a conveniently flexible set of guidelines for accepting or rejecting books," Ms. Strothman of Beacon Press said. "It is ridiculous that Donnelley would find Madonna's work more acceptable than Mohr's thoughtful, creative essays. What we are witnessing is blatant homophobia."
 
Looking for Uniformity
 Gerald Butler, the president of Donnelley's book division, said that Mr. Ratcliffe's statement -- that the company does not reject projects because others might find them controversial -- was the official company position, but he refused to answer any questions about the company's decision to accept the Madonna book while rejecting other books for their sexual explicitness.
Mr. Ratcliffe conceded that the company had "not been entirely consistent and we've taken perhaps an ad hoc approach." He said the company was trying to make its standards "more uniform and less contradictory."
Despite the enormous publicity that has surrounded "Sex" since the photos were still being shot, Mr. Ratcliffe at first said Donnelley "had no idea how big the sales for the book" would be when it agreed to take on the project and he denied financial considerations were a factor.
 
Well, It Is a Lot of Books
 People involved with the Madonna book and with books Donnelley has rejected said they thought the size of the "Sex" print run, well over 500,000 copies, had to have influenced the printer's decision to take on the project.
"Maybe when it's 500,000-plus copies it's different," said Laurence J. Kirshbaum, the president of Warner Books. "It's hard to turn down that kind of business in this economy."
Mr. Ratcliffe finally did modify his position. "We're obviously not in the business," he said, "of turning down good business."
 
Lucrative Republishing
 Executives at the Book-of-the-Month Club realized 10 years ago that they had an ideal setup for a new venture. Instead of buying the rights from publishers to sell club editions of books, they wondered, why not publish books on their own, or in joint projects with the publishers? They had easy access to an audience, the 2.7 million club members who regularly buy about 17 million books a year through the catalogues of the company's three largest clubs -- Book-of-the-Month, Quality Paperback and History -- and they had access to printers, who put out the clubs' selected titles.
They began with reprints of classics, like "All the King's Men," by Robert Penn Warren (in 1982 it sold 9,500 copies), "Berlin Diary," by William Shirer (a 1987 offer that sold 8,500 copies) and the Revised English Bible (a 1989 main selection that sold more than 80,000 copies). They then started doing anthologies, like the World Treasury of Modern Religious Thought, a joint venture with Little, Brown & Company that was a Book-of-the-Month Club main selection in 1990 and sold more than 100,000 copies. In June, the club had success with a six-volume set of Mark Twain classics, so far selling more than 20,000 sets.
Next month the three clubs will offer the company's most ambitious self-publishing project thus far, one that was born out of carefully studying the clubs' extensive data base that tracks reader preferences.
What the company learned, said Alice van Straalen, the director of the book development department, was that its customers liked religious books, reference books and anthologies, and were willing to pay fairly high prices for such works. And so the company came up with "Sacred Writings," a seven-volume set of the world's major religious texts, edited by Jaroslav Pelikan, a professor of history at Yale University; the set will cost $75 in hard cover and $50 in paperback.
The six texts included are: the Tanakh, the 24 books of the Hebrew Bible; the New Testament, along with the Old Testament Apocrypha; the Koran; the Analects, the reputed sayings and conversations of Confucius, containing the central principles of his teachings; the Rig Veda, the oldest and most important text of Vedic Hinduism, made up of a collection of 1,028 hymns, and the Dhammapada, a book of the Buddhist canons.
There is also a companion book by Mr. Pelikan, "On Searching the Scriptures: Your Own or Someone Else's," introducing readers to each text.
In a show of confidence in the project, the company had a first printing of 25,000 copies, a large run given the set's steep price.
"We saw a tremendous appetite," said Ms. van Straalen, "and we created something to fill it."

CORRECTION-DATE: October 29, 1992, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
A subheading in the Book Notes column yesterday about an honor for James Laughlin, the publisher of New Directions, was printed in error. It referred to a report that had been omitted in editing. That report appears separately today on page C20.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SACRED WRITINGS (BOOK); SEX (BOOK); GAY IDEAS: OUTING AND OTHER CONTROVERSIES (BOOK); BOOK NOTES (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: RRD (NASDAQ) (59%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS323120 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR PRINTING (59%); NAICS323117 BOOKS PRINTING (59%); NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (59%); SIC2752 COMMERCIAL LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTING (59%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: DONNELLY, R R, & SONS; BOOK-OF-THE-MONTH CLUB R R DONNELLEY & SONS CO (59%); GRAND CENTRAL PUBLISHING (56%); NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (57%); NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DONNELLY, R R, & SONS; BOOK-OF-THE-MONTH CLUB NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (57%); NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; RELIGION AND CHURCHES BOOK PRINTING (90%); RELIGION (90%); BOOK PUBLISHING (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); PUBLISHING (77%); LITERATURE (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PORNOGRAPHY (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); PHILOSOPHY (72%); 

PERSON: MADONNA; MOHR, RICHARD (PROF); FEIN, ESTHER B MADONNA (95%); JAMES M RATCLIFFE (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1992



956 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Oil Prices Decline Sharply Ahead of Inventory Report

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Energy futures plunged yesterday on the New York Mercantile Exchange as traders acted ahead of the release of American Petroleum Institute inventory data.
On other markets, coffee gained, and grain, soybeans, livestock and meat were mixed. 
 Energy futures traded higher at the opening in buying influenced by Monday's strong close. But buyers disappeared and traders reasserted the trend downward.
Crude oil prices moved to their lowest levels since August on accurate expectations that the Petroleum Institute numbers, released after the close of trading yesterday, would show an increase in crude oil and distillate stocks, said Thomas Blakeslee, an analyst with the Pegasus Econometric Group.
Besides confirming those higher supplies, the institute's figures showed a surprising increase in refinery operations. Unleaded gasoline supplies fell slightly.
Also weighing on energy futures was the increased production by OPEC nations, Mr. Blakeslee said. "It is apparent OPEC production is exceeding 25 million barrels a day, well above the quota," he added.
Gasoline prices were strong amid perceptions of tight supplies and the likelihood that refiners would reduce gasoline runs because of the seasonal switch to heating oil production.
Light crude oil for December delivery was 25 cents lower, at $21.02 a barrel; November heating oil was 0.2 cent lower, at 61.65 cents a gallon; November unleaded gasoline was 0.6 cent higher, at 59.90 cents a gallon, and December natural gas was 1.8 cents lower, at $2.295 per 1,000 cubic feet.
Coffee futures remained firm on the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange in New York as Colombia left the market and there was a lack of selling by other coffee producers, including Brazil.
Buying sent coffee futures 1.80 cents a pound higher before investors took profits later in the session. December coffee settled 0.70 cent higher, at 66.55 cents a pound.
Grain and soybean futures were higher on the Chicago Board of Trade.
Corn futures, despite pressure from reports of an excellent harvests, got a lift from news that the Agriculture Department planned to buy a million metric tons of corn and give it to republics of the former Soviet Union.
Wheat futures gained on a report that Russia had made another bid for wheat under the export subsidy program. The department has rejected past bids from Russia on the ground that they did not match prices offered by other nations.
Soybean futures were mostly higher on news that the United States and the European Community would resume talks to reach an agreement on trade tariffs.
Livestock and meat futures were mixed in trading on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (85%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%); ILLINOIS, USA (67%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (85%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (90%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (90%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (83%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (54%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (90%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (90%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (83%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (54%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); ILLINOIS, USA (67%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; OPTIONS TRADING; PRICES; ENERGY AND POWER FUTURES (95%); OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (91%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); GASOLINE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); HEATING OIL (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); COFFEE MARKETS (89%); COFFEE (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); CORN MARKETS (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); NATURAL GAS (79%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (79%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (78%); COFFEE FARMING (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); COFFEE & TEA (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (77%); TRENDS (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (74%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (72%); 

PERSON: THOMAS BLAKESLEE (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1992



957 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1723 words

HEADLINE: Poll Finds D'Amato and Abrams Virtually Even in Senate Contest

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
A week before Election Day, the New York Senate race is a tossup between Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato and State Attorney General Robert Abrams, even as Mr. Abrams's fellow Democrat, Bill Clinton, retains a double-digit lead over President Bush in the state, according to a new statewide New York Times poll.
After six weeks of rancorous campaigning, Mr. Abrams leads Mr. D'Amato among registered voters by just 3 percentage points, 38 percent to 35 percent -- or within the survey's margin of sampling error. Nearly one-quarter of voters said they were still undecided, an unusually high percentage this late in a race, and an apparent sign of wide dissatisfaction with both candidates.
When undecided voters were pressed to say which way they were leaning, the contest became a virtual draw, with 42 percent saying they favored Mr. Abrams to 41 percent for Mr. D'Amato. Mr. Abrams leads only in New York City, while the Senator holds a slight edge upstate and a double-digit lead in the suburbs on Long Island and in the Hudson Valley.
 
Clinton Shows Strength
 The tight Senate race stands in stark contrast to the Presidential contest, in which the survey -- conducted Saturday through Monday -- showed Mr. Clinton leading Mr. Bush 45 percent to 28 percent in the state, with 15 percent supporting the independent candidacy of Ross Perot. That contrast is an apparent testament to the effectiveness of Mr. D'Amato's relentless television advertising attacks on Mr. Abrams, who had led him in most polls over the last several months. 
 It may also be a legacy of the bitter Democratic primary, which ended with one of Mr. Abrams's rivals, Geraldine A. Ferraro, so angry that she refused to endorse him. One-third of those who said they voted for her in the primary now back Mr. D'Amato, while another fifth are undecided.
The closeness of the race was reflected in a new level of intensity in the campaign yesterday, as each candidate issued fresh ads attacking the other's integrity. Mr. Abrams's camp -- which says it has been outgunned five to one in television ads in the race -- said it would at last come close to meeting Mr. D'Amato's spending in the air war in these final frantic days.
The new ads were unequivocally harsh. Mr. Abrams's cites a pending Federal investigation into whether Mr. D'Amato tried to influence the grand jury testimony of a former Federal housing official concerning Mr. D'Amato's role in the awarding of Federal contracts. It ends with a narrator intoning: "The same old story, the same old Al. Doesn't New York deserve better? Isn't it time for a change?"
The new D'Amato ad accuses Mr. Abrams of planning to raise taxes, and twits him for repeated late payments of property taxes on his Dutchess County home -- for which Mr. Abrams has paid penalties. "It says it exactly," Mr. D'Amato said at a news conference to preview the ad. "He's going to raise taxes on everyone else and he has trouble paying his own."
Both campaigns and state party officials said The Times poll reflected their own sense of a tight race, and it included bad news for both candidates, as well as hints of how either could win. In addition to the high proportion of undecided voters, about one-quarter of each man's supporters said they might change their minds.
"That's where the race is -- dead even," said the state Democratic chairman, John A. Marino, who is striving to guard against complacency in the presidential race and hoping a large Democratic turnout helps Mr. Abrams. "I hope this serves as a warning to Democrats that we're this close to sending Al D'Amato back to the United States Senate -- for six years."
 
Clinton's Loose Coattails
 But even a heavy Democratic turnout is no guarantee of help for Mr. Abrams, since about one in five voters who said they were Democrats said they also intend to vote for Mr. D'Amato. About one-fifth of Clinton voters also said they plan to vote for Mr. D'Amato.
Moreover, the electorate expressed little enthusiasm for either Mr. Abrams or Mr. D'Amato. Each candidate was viewed unfavorably by about one-third of those surveyed, while just one in four viewed Mr. D'Amato favorably and only one in five had a favorable opinion of Mr. Abrams, a popular four-term attorney general who has been the state's record vote-getter. Among undecided voters, only 1 percent viewed Mr. D'Amato favorably, and only 2 percent viewed Mr. Abrams favorably.
Mr. D'Amato's attacks on Mr. Abrams as a "hopelessly liberal" tax and spender who takes campaign contributions from people doing business with his office appear to have helped dent the Attorney General's image, already battered the rough Democratic primary, in which Mr. Abrams repeatedly questioned the ethics and family finances of Ms. Ferraro.
More than a third of voters said they do not believe Mr. Abrams has the honesty or integrity they want in a senator, while just under half expressed the same view about Mr. D'Amato, who has weathered years of inquiries into his ethical conduct.
Voters were almost exactly evenly divided on who would do a better job of handling what they viewed as the problem they most wanted their next senator to tackle, which they overwhelmingly identified as the economy and unemployment. About one-third said either man would do equally well. The telephone survey of 1,213 registered voters has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.
On the issues, each candidate could claim strengths. Voters expressed wide support for abortion rights, which Mr. Abrams backs, and also for the death penalty, which Mr. D'Amato favors. But neither issue was near the top of the voters' list, which was dominated by the economy, followed by taxes, the deficit, education, health care, homelessness and crime.
In yet another sign of the closeness of the race, voters were evenly split on some issues that sharply divide the candidates. For example, nearly half the respondents said they favored keeping military spending about the same, while the other half favored cutting it. Mr. Abrams and Mr. D'Amato have argued bitterly over Mr. Abrams's calls for deep cuts in military spending, which Mr. D'Amato says would throw hundreds of thousands out of work.
Mr. Abrams's campaign director, Ethan Geto, acknowledged that his campaign had faced big obstacles, but said he was confident that the Attorney General's final million-dollar-plus advertising push in the coming week would make it more competitive. The centerpiece of his ad campaign is a 30-second commercial in which Mr. Abrams looks into the camera and talks about his support for abortion rights and a national health insurance program -- a program that two-thirds of voters in the poll said they favor in concept.
"We think we're gonna get close enough in striking distance with our slingshot that our pebble is going to hit Goliath in the right place," he said.
But Kieran Mahoney, Mr. D'Amato's campaign manager, repeated his contention that Mr. Abrams's plan would lead to higher taxes -- which Mr. Abrams acknowledges, though he disputes Mr. D'Amato's assertion that personal income taxes would rise. Mr. Mahoney said New Yorkers recognized that, and were wary of Mr. Abrams as a result.
"Abrams started out with a 15-point lead, and it's now basically a dead heat and we have the momentum and we're going to win," he said, adding, "All things considered, we out-campaigned the opponent."
In a striking mark of the prevalence of television advertising as the main electioneering vehicle in modern statewide campaigns, more than half the respondents said they had seen commercials for each candidate in the last week, while only one-quarter said they had seen in either one in person or interviewed on a news program or in a debate.
When voters in the survey were asked who they expected to win, regardless of their own preferences, 44 percent picked Mr. D'Amato, to 36 percent for Mr. Abrams. Such questions are sometimes a sign of prevailing attitudes and the sense of momentum in a campaign.
Mr. D'Amato has sought to rally Italian-American voters, the state's single largest bloc, to his side, by repeatedly attacking Mr. Abrams for calling him a "fascist" after being heckled by D'Amato protesters, and by attacking Mr. Abrams's criticism of Ms. Ferraro during the primary. Nearly half the voters who identified themselves as Italian said they backed the Senator, compared with about 30 percent for Mr. Abrams.
 
How the Polls Were Done
 The latest nationwide New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Oct. 20-23 with 1,854 adults around the continental United States. Of those polled, 1,467 said they were registered voters.
The sample of telephone exchanges called was selected by a computer to assure that each region of the country was represented in proportion to its population. For each exchange, the telephone numbers were formed by random digits, thus permitting access to both listed and unlisted numbers.
In addition, The New York Times conducted a separate poll throughout New York State on Saturday through Monday with 1,599 adults. Of those polled, 1,213 said they were registered voters. The sample of New York telephone numbers was provided by Survey Sampling Inc. of Fairfield, Conn. Respondents were interviewed in English or Spanish.
For both polls, one adult within each household was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent. The results of each poll have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines at the residence, as well as to adjust for variations relating to region, race, sex, age and education.
According to statistical theory, in 19 of 20 cases, the results based on such samples will differ by no more than 3 percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all registered voters in the respective population.
The potential sampling error for smaller subgroups is larger. For example, for registered voters in New York City it is plus or minus 5 percentage points.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Differences in the wording and order of questions, for instance, can lead to somewhat varying results.


GRAPHIC: Percentage who say they would vote for:

 	 	 	 		Abrams	D'Amato	Undecided	 	 	 	 	Total	38%	35%	22%	 	 	 	 	New York City	51 	23 	22 	Long Island and 914 area code	29 	48 	17 	Rest of the state	32 	38 	25 	 	 	 	 	Republican	18 	58 	20 	Independent	33 	29 	30 	Democrat	57 	21 	17 	 	 	 	 	Liberal	52 	23 	20 	Moderate	41 	34 	21 	Conservative	25 	47 	22 	 	 	 	 	Those who voted for	 	 	 	 Geraldine Ferraro in primary	44 	33 	21 	 	 	 	 	White	34 	40 	21 	Black	59 	12 	23 	 	 	 	 	White Protestant	27 	46 	21 	Catholic	36 	41 	19 	Jewish	59 	23 	16 	Italian	29 	46 	22 	Hispanic	46 	23 	27 	 	 	 	 	Men	37 	40 	17 	Women	39 	31 	26 	 	 	 	 	18-29 year old	41 	30 	22 	30-44 year old	38 	32 	24 	45-64 year old	36 	38 	22 	65 years old and older	39 	41 	19 	 	 	 	 	Not a high school graduate	38 	26 	32 	High school graduate	34 	39 	23 	Some college	40 	37 	19 	College graduate or more	48 	30 	17 	 	 	 	 	Union member	45 	32 	17 	 	 	 	 	Those who say economy is:	 	 	 	 getting better	16 	66 	14 	 staying the same	40 	37 	19 	 getting worse	44 	22 	27 	
 
Based on telephone interviews with 1,213 registered voters throughout New York State conducted Oct. 24-26. Long Island and Hudson Valley include all counties in the 516 and 914 area codes. (pg. B8)
 
Graph/Chart: "Comparing Views in the U.S. and New York State"

 	 	 	If the Presidential election were held today:	 	 		N.Y.	U.S.	Would vote for George Bush and Dan Quayle	28%	35%	Would vote for Bill Clinton and Al Gore	45 	40 	Would vote for Ross Perot and James Stockdale	15 	15 	 	 	 	If the election for House of Representatives	 	 	were held today:	 	 	 	 	 	Would vote for Republican candidate	31 	36 	Would vote for Democratic candidate	47 	45 	 	 	 	Say their opinion of George Bush is	 	 	Favorable	26 	35 	Unfavorable	54 	45 	 	 	 	Say their opinion of Bill Clinton is	 	 	Favorable	40 	33 	Unfavorable	33 	39 	 	 	 	Say their opinion of Ross Perot is	 	 	Favorable	26 	29 	Unfavorable	35 	32 	
Table: "The Senate Race in New York"
 Based on telephone interviews by The New York Times with 1,213 registered voters in New York State Oct. 24-26 and on interviews with 1,467 registered voters nationwide by The New York Times and CBS News Oct. 20-23. Nationwide voting preferences are expressed as a percentage of the probable electorate. (pg. B8)
 
Graphs: "New Yorkers' Preferences" (Oct. 24-26, statewide)
 
For Senator
 
 Abrams: 38%
 D'Amato: 35%
 Undecided: 27%
 
For President
 Clinton: 45%
 Bush: 28%
 Perot: 15%
 Undecided: 11%
 
(Source: New York Times Poll) (pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HUDSON VALLEY HOMESTEAD (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (87%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); WITNESSES (73%); GRAND JURY (73%); TESTIMONY (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (69%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (69%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (63%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (60%); INVESTIGATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1992



958 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Oil Prices Decline Sharply Ahead of Inventory Report

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Energy futures plunged yesterday on the New York Mercantile Exchange as traders acted ahead of the release of American Petroleum Institute inventory data.
On other markets, coffee gained, and grain, soybeans, livestock and meat were mixed. 
 Energy futures traded higher at the opening in buying influenced by Monday's strong close. But buyers disappeared and traders reasserted the trend downward.
Crude oil prices moved to their lowest levels since August on accurate expectations that the Petroleum Institute numbers, released after the close of trading yesterday, would show an increase in crude oil and distillate stocks, said Thomas Blakeslee, an analyst with the Pegasus Econometric Group.
Besides confirming those higher supplies, the institute's figures showed a surprising increase in refinery operations. Unleaded gasoline supplies fell slightly.
Also weighing on energy futures was the increased production by OPEC nations, Mr. Blakeslee said. "It is apparent OPEC production is exceeding 25 million barrels a day, well above the quota," he added.
Gasoline prices were strong amid perceptions of tight supplies and the likelihood that refiners would reduce gasoline runs because of the seasonal switch to heating oil production.
Light crude oil for December delivery was 25 cents lower, at $21.02 a barrel; November heating oil was 0.2 cent lower, at 61.65 cents a gallon; November unleaded gasoline was 0.6 cent higher, at 59.90 cents a gallon, and December natural gas was 1.8 cents lower, at $2.295 per 1,000 cubic feet.
Coffee futures remained firm on the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange in New York as Colombia left the market and there was a lack of selling by other coffee producers, including Brazil.
Buying sent coffee futures 1.80 cents a pound higher before investors took profits later in the session. December coffee settled 0.70 cent higher, at 66.55 cents a pound.
Grain and soybean futures were higher on the Chicago Board of Trade.
Corn futures, despite pressure from reports of an excellent harvests, got a lift from news that the Agriculture Department planned to buy a million metric tons of corn and give it to republics of the former Soviet Union.
Wheat futures gained on a report that Russia had made another bid for wheat under the export subsidy program. The department has rejected past bids from Russia on the ground that they did not match prices offered by other nations.
Soybean futures were mostly higher on news that the United States and the European Community would resume talks to reach an agreement on trade tariffs.
Livestock and meat futures were mixed in trading on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (85%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%); ILLINOIS, USA (67%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (85%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (90%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (90%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (83%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (54%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (90%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (90%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (83%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (54%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); ILLINOIS, USA (67%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; OPTIONS TRADING; PRICES; ENERGY AND POWER FUTURES (95%); OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (91%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); GASOLINE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); HEATING OIL (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); COFFEE MARKETS (89%); COFFEE (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); CORN MARKETS (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); NATURAL GAS (79%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (79%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (78%); COFFEE FARMING (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); COFFEE & TEA (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (77%); TRENDS (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (74%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (72%); 

PERSON: THOMAS BLAKESLEE (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1992



959 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Oil Prices Decline Sharply Ahead of Inventory Report

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Energy futures plunged yesterday on the New York Mercantile Exchange as traders acted ahead of the release of American Petroleum Institute inventory data.
On other markets, coffee gained, and grain, soybeans, livestock and meat were mixed. 
 Energy futures traded higher at the opening in buying influenced by Monday's strong close. But buyers disappeared and traders reasserted the trend downward.
Crude oil prices moved to their lowest levels since August on accurate expectations that the Petroleum Institute numbers, released after the close of trading yesterday, would show an increase in crude oil and distillate stocks, said Thomas Blakeslee, an analyst with the Pegasus Econometric Group.
Besides confirming those higher supplies, the institute's figures showed a surprising increase in refinery operations. Unleaded gasoline supplies fell slightly.
Also weighing on energy futures was the increased production by OPEC nations, Mr. Blakeslee said. "It is apparent OPEC production is exceeding 25 million barrels a day, well above the quota," he added.
Gasoline prices were strong amid perceptions of tight supplies and the likelihood that refiners would reduce gasoline runs because of the seasonal switch to heating oil production.
Light crude oil for December delivery was 25 cents lower, at $21.02 a barrel; November heating oil was 0.2 cent lower, at 61.65 cents a gallon; November unleaded gasoline was 0.6 cent higher, at 59.90 cents a gallon, and December natural gas was 1.8 cents lower, at $2.295 per 1,000 cubic feet.
Coffee futures remained firm on the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange in New York as Colombia left the market and there was a lack of selling by other coffee producers, including Brazil.
Buying sent coffee futures 1.80 cents a pound higher before investors took profits later in the session. December coffee settled 0.70 cent higher, at 66.55 cents a pound.
Grain and soybean futures were higher on the Chicago Board of Trade.
Corn futures, despite pressure from reports of an excellent harvests, got a lift from news that the Agriculture Department planned to buy a million metric tons of corn and give it to republics of the former Soviet Union.
Wheat futures gained on a report that Russia had made another bid for wheat under the export subsidy program. The department has rejected past bids from Russia on the ground that they did not match prices offered by other nations.
Soybean futures were mostly higher on news that the United States and the European Community would resume talks to reach an agreement on trade tariffs.
Livestock and meat futures were mixed in trading on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (85%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%); ILLINOIS, USA (67%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (85%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (90%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (90%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (83%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (54%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (90%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (90%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (83%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (54%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); ILLINOIS, USA (67%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; OPTIONS TRADING; PRICES; ENERGY AND POWER FUTURES (95%); OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (91%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); GASOLINE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); HEATING OIL (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); COFFEE MARKETS (89%); COFFEE (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); CORN MARKETS (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); NATURAL GAS (79%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (79%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (78%); COFFEE FARMING (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); COFFEE & TEA (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (77%); TRENDS (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (74%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (72%); 

PERSON: THOMAS BLAKESLEE (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1992



960 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-17
 
AFRICAN DUST SPREADS WESTWARD
The hot October winds scoop the thin topsoil up from Africa, swirl the dust high into the sky and drive it west for thousands of miles. Scientists tracking the dust say it is a boon for the Atlantic food chain and for soil and vegetation in the Americas. A1
 
Somalian parents greet aid workers with rare show of friendliness. A16
 
CONTRAST IN VENEZUELA
Nine months after a coup attempt nearly toppled democracy in Venezuela, a contrast endures: Latin America's strongest economic growth is pitted against political jitters. Economically, Venezuela, an oil producer, is still a star of the Americas, growing 8.5 percent in the first half of this year. A3
 
A fugitive Colombian drug lord's aide is killed. A7
 
THE FRUSTRATIONS IN ISRAEL
News analysis: A few months ago, hard-liners governing Israel were blamed for frustrating Arab aspirations, which, it was said, led to a surge of armed attacks. Now the country has a left-leaning Government, and there is another surge of attacks. The opposition blames those in charge for offering concessions in the Mideast peace talks. A8
 
YUGOSLAV BLOCKADE HITS HARD
The truncated Yugoslavia is reeling under the effects of a five-month economic blockade that has sent prices soaring, brought industries to a halt and left a dispirited population facing the hard Balkan winter with little heat or hope. A8
 
YELTSIN DISBANDS RIVAL GUARD
President Yeltsin ordered the disbanding of a 5,000-member armed guard formed by his rival, Ruslan I. Khasbulatov, chairman of the Russian Parliament, and moved to outlaw the National Salvation Front, a new group formed by nationalists and hard-liners. A10
 
Disorder appears to be abating in Albania. A11
 
Eastern German acknowledges his Communism and spy contacts. A12
 
The last Russian combat troops withdraw from Poland. A15
 
Rebels move within three miles of Liberian capital's center. A5
 
Canada's no vote on constitutional changes heartens Quebec. A9
 
Foreign films are killing off the Indonesian movie industry. A17
 
Seoul Journal: A Korean businessman is seeking the presidency. A4
 
National A18-25, B11-14
 
CAMPAIGN SPENDING SOARS
With far more incumbents than usual engaged in tough fights for re-election, spending on Congressional races is at record levels. A1
 
Carol Braun, hurt by ethics accusations, still leads in Illinois. A25
 
Four other female Senate candidates in the Midwest trail badly. A25
 
Once again, Gingrich is engaged in a tight and bitter race. A25
 
BUSH STUMPS ON ONE THEME: TRUST
As two new polls suggested that the race for the White House had tightened dramatically, the President crisscrossed Ohio, buoyed by a belief that the attack on Governor Clinton's character was working. A1
 
CLINTON COUNTERATTACKS
Governor Clinton accused the President of running a campaign characterized by repeated lies. A1
 
Clinton's chief strategist: master of political instinct. A23
 
FICKLE FLIRTATIONS
Conversations with voters in Grand Rapids, Mich., suggest that they have been switching from one Presidential candidate to another as quickly as they switch TV channels. And that appears to mean a decline in support for Ross Perot. A1
 
Perot went on the offensive in a visit to Colorado. A22
 
News analysis: The limits of Perot the tactician. A22
 
This year's ads use statistics and attribution to stretch the truth. A24
 
The West Coast is again debating TV's election-night forecasts. A24
 
On the Trail: Update on the primaries' also-rans. A23
 
ARMY OPENS HARASSMENT INQUIRY
After complaints from scores of its female civilian employees, the Army has undertaken an investigation into sexual harassment at two military centers in St. Louis. A1
 
HISS WAS NOT A SPY, RUSSIAN SAYS
Nearly half a century after Alger Hiss was convicted of espionage-related perjury, a review of newly opened archives in Moscow has cleared him of the accusation that he spied for the Soviet Union, a high-ranking Russian official says. B14
 
Randolph Journal: A Vermont town's drive toward renewal. A18
 
Jorge Mas Canosa, the "man with a capital M." A18
 
A study found more damning evidence of lead's effects. A20
 
Researchers found only a modest effect by an Alzheimer's drug. A20
 
The Government will sponsor a clinical trial of an AIDS drug. B12
 
The nation's governors reported financial turmoil. A19
 
The C.I.A. chief acknowledged poor handling of the B.N.L. case. B11
 
Metro Digest B1
 
THE GROWING SCOPE OF AIDS
Under the new definition, the number of new AIDS cases reported each year is expected to nearly double, bringing with it a two-edged sword. States will be eligible for more Federal funds than are now distributed on the basis of reported cases. But agencies and clinics will face higher costs and heavier workloads. A1
 
DEAD ENDS FOR DRUG SALES
In a plan that city officials said had never been tried on such a wide scale anywhere in the country, Bridgeport, Conn., announced that it would put concrete barriers at more than 30 intersections, creating a maze of dead-end streets to make it harder to hop off Interstate 95, buy drugs and return to the highway. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Home Section C1-16
 
If you're done in by do-it-yourself decorating. C1
 
At home with Mr. Fish: Who is that clown in the trailer? C1
 
Giving elevators welcome mats. C1
 
Arts/Entertainment C17-24
 
Director's return to Vietnam. C19
 
Death and album sales. C19
 
Fischer wins Game 25. C22
 
Sports B17-23
 
Obituaries B16
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A26-27
 
Editorials
 
Medical madness on Capitol Hill.
 
The Oregon Trail of hate.
 
Gross national letdown.
 
For Congress from the suburbs.
 
Letters
 
William Safire: The voting trigger.
 
Leslie H. Gelb: Going bananas.
 
Daniel H. Pink: Year of the factoid.
 
Landon Parvin: Ask Mr. Blather.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (92%); SOMALIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); CANADA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); LIBERIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); LATIN AMERICA (72%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (77%); QUEBEC, CANADA (52%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SALVATION FRONT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SALVATION FRONT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (92%); SOMALIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); CANADA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); LIBERIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); LATIN AMERICA (72%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (77%); QUEBEC, CANADA (52%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COUPS (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (70%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); FILM GENRES (61%); FILM (61%); ETHICS (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



961 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: CAMPAIGN SPENDING IN CONGRESS RACES SOARS TO NEW HIGH

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 28

 BODY:
Congressional campaign spending has soared to record levels this year as far more lawmakers than usual face tough fights to hold on to their seats, Federal Election Commission records show.
The trend is apparent in races for both chambers but is especially obvious in campaigns for the House. In past years incumbency has almost guaranteed re-election for House members, but in 1992, voter hostility, aroused in part by some lawmakers' abuse of checking-account privileges at the House Bank, has frequently made it an obstacle. 
 In addition, many House members are spending more trying to appeal to substantial numbers of new voters because of redistricting.
 
Hurt by Recession
 The increase in spending has not been matched by an increase in fund raising, largely because political action committees, which dole out money on behalf of industries, trade associations, unions and ideological groups, have given only a little more than in past years. The committees, which have often been accused of having an excessive influence on Congressional races, say the recession has left them short of money.
The average House incumbent spent $292,949 in the 21 months ending Sept. 30, up 27 percent from the same period two years earlier. The average for Senate incumbents, which is not comparable to 1989-1990 spending because different states are involved, is $2,351,205.
"We've never had to raise so much money and work so hard," said Representative Thomas J. Downey, a Long Island Democrat who has spent $794,789 seeking his 10th term, "because of the natural vulnerability we all feel."
 
Spending Outpaces New Money
 A New York Times computer analysis of reports filed with the election commission showed that incumbents' average spending has risen much faster than their fund raising, and that overall fund raising has risen faster than contributions by political action committees. The incumbents' overall fund raising increased 12 percent, to $363,189, while their contributions from PAC's grew by 7 percent, to $164,575.
Because spending grew faster than receipts, the average incumbent had $153,274 on hand after 21 months, down 16 percent from two years ago.
To avoid distortions caused by an occasional candidate with vast resources, like Michael Huffington, a California Republican who has spent $4,070,908, on a House race, the Times analysis used medians. The median is the point at which half the candidates in a group spent more and half spent less. Mr. Huffington, who is mostly using his own money, is spending more than 174 other major party candidates in open House seats. The median is $175,588.
Candidates in open seats, where neither has the advantages of incumbency, often have the stiffest competition. Democrats held an edge in this category, with the average candidate having raised $225,324 and spent $185,789. Republicans had raised an average of $173,170 and spent $132,188.
The difference was accounted for largely by political action committees. The average Democrat had raised $59,313 from such committees to the typical Republican's $6,850. While the PAC's see no reason to stir up the Democrats -- who control both House of Congress -- by contributing to Republican challengers, they do give to incumbents. The median in money raised from PAC's for a Republican incumbent was $141,385; for Democrats it was $187,850.
 
Hurdle for Challengers
 But challengers are generally in dire financial straits. The average challenger has raised only $42,807, with some $1,100 of it from political action committees, spent $34,076 and had $5,397 on hand Oct. 1.
Even so, 31 challengers had raised at least $200,000, the threshold described by Gary Jacobson, a professor of political science at the University of California at San Diego, as "enough to get the message out" and make a race competitive. Twenty of them are Republicans; 11 are Democrats.
Three challengers have actually raised more than the incumbent they are facing. Susan Stokes, a Kentucky Republican, has outraised Representative Ron Mazzoli, by $244,919 to 168,325. But she was aided by the incumbent's unilateral fiscal disarmament; he is among 12 incumbents taking no contributions from PAC's, and he limits individual donations to $100. The legal maximum contribution for an individual is $1,000.
 
Trying to Come Back
 The other two House challengers who have outraised incumbents are Gwen Margolis, a Florida Democrat, and Beau Boulter, a Texas Republican seeking to regain the seat he gave up for a Senate attempt in 1988.
Ms. Margolis is challenging Representative Clay Shaw and has outraised him, $573,033 to $430,095. But she had to spend heavily in a primary, and he led her in cash on hand, $419,247 to $110,221.
Mr. Boulter has raised $286,589, to $285,451 for Representative Bill Sarpalius, who got 60 percent of his money, or $170,619, from PAC's. Mr. Boulter got only 2 percent, or $6,735, from them.
In only two Senate races did the challenger raise more money than the incumbent. In California, Dianne Feinstein, the Democrat, had taken in $7,132,821, compared to $6,283,709 for Senator John Seymour. And in North Carolina, Lauch Faircloth, the Republican, had $2,042,555 to Senator Terry Sanford's $1,879,983.
 
The Money Race
 Those totals placed them third and fourth among Senate candidates, trailing Representative Barbara Boxer, a California Democrat running for an open seat, who had $8,836,194, and Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, Republican of New York. Mr. D'Amato reported receipts of $8,154,347.
Ms. Boxer's opponent, Bruce Herschensohn, had raised $5,475,537. Mr. D'Amato's challenger, Attorney General Robert Abrams, had receipts of $5,231,170.
Fifteen Senate candidates, all incumbents, had raise more than $1 million from PAC's, led by Mr. Seymour with $1,274,103. Ms. Feinstein's $696,027 led all challengers. Ms. Boxer's $700,281 led all those in open seats.
Two other Senate races showed close fund-raising duels. Senator John Glenn of Ohio, a Democrat, had outraised his challenger, Lieut. Gov. Mike DeWine, by $2,752,425 to $2,355,665. But Mr. Glenn, who has been raising money for years, had $709,858 on hand and Mr. DeWine had only $56,720.
In New Hampshire, Gov. Judd Gregg, the Republican candidate, had brought in $910,591, to $834,910, for his Democratic opponent in the Senate race, John Rauh. But Mr. Gregg had $177,388 left at the beginning of the month to Mr. Rauh's $22,242.
The median spending by Senate incumbents at this point in 1990 was $1,956,009, much lower than this year, in part because there were no contests in either of the nation's two most populous and expensive states, California and New York. In 1988, the median spending at this point by Senate incumbents was $2,380,568, around this year's level.
None of this year's Senate races will break the Senate spending record of $25.8 million set in 1984 by Senator Jesse Helms of North Carolina and his unsuccessful Democratic challenger, James B. Hunt. Nonetheless, the two Senate contests in California have already produced nearly $27 million in spending in 21 months, just by the four candidates who made it to the general election.

GRAPHIC: Table: TOP FUND-RAISERS: SENATE RACES...%PAC...TOTAL
 
Barbara Boxer, (D-Calif.)...8%...$8,836,194
Alfonse M. D'Amato,(R-N.Y.)...9%...8,154,347
Dianne Feinstein, (D-Calif.)...10%...7,132,821
John F. Seymour, (R-Calif.)...20%...6,283,709
Arlen Specter, (R-Pa.)...20%...6,071,534
 
TOP FUND-RAISERS: HOUSE RACES...%PAC...TOTAL
 
Michael Huffington, (R-Calif.)...0%...4,201,783
Richard A. Gephardt, (D-Mo.)...39%...2,624,929
Newt Gingrich, (R-Ga.)...32%...1,559,069
Dan Rostenkowski, (D-Ill.)...59%...1,402,775
Mike Synar, (D-Okla.)...0%...1,219,718
 
(pg. B11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) CALIFORNIA REPUBLICAN (72%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (84%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (84%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; FINANCES; POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES; REAPPORTIONMENT; ETHICS ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); REDISTRICTING (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); ETHICS (71%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (71%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM DIANNE FEINSTEIN (59%); ARLEN SPECTER (59%); BARBARA BOXER (59%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



962 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Voters;
Michigan Thinks, Rethinks and Thinks Again

BYLINE: By JEFFREY SCHMALZ, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GRAND RAPIDS, Mich., Oct. 28

 BODY:
As if flicking channels on the TV set, voters here have been switching from Presidential candidate to candidate to candidate, hoping to find true love but instead finding the political equivalent of one-night stands.
To be sure, in this western Michigan city that gave the world Gerald R. Ford, there are plenty of die-hard Republicans who started out as fans of George Bush and who will stay with him to the end, though even many of them have flirted with Ross Perot. But more voters than not have been loyal to no one. 
 It is common to find people here who have changed their minds three and four times since February and even since the debates this month -- most because of Ross Perot, with whom voters have what can only be called a love-hate relationship.
Based on conversations with some 75 voters over the last three days, Bill Clinton seems to hold the slightest of leads here, with Mr. Perot a distant third, drawing votes from President Bush and especially Mr. Clinton.
In interviews at midday on Monday, most people said they believed Mr. Perot's accusations, first made the day before, that Republicans had tried to orchestrate dirty tricks against him. But by late Tuesday afternoon, after television and newspaper commentators had weighed in with assessments that Mr. Perot was lying or paranoid, the mood on the streets had shifted, with people splitting 50-50 on whether he was being truthful.
"I voted for Bush last time and I was going to stay with him," said Joni Wagner, 32 years old, who works for the Travelers Life Insurance Company. "Then I decided Bush wasn't doing enough about the economy, so I went to Perot. When he dropped out, I switched to Clinton, though I'm afraid he's going to spend and spend. I thought Perot was terrific in the debates, so I'm back with him."
Ms. Wagner, like the others interviewed on Monday, said she believed Mr. Perot's accusations. But 34-year-old Laurie Pawlowski, like half the others who were interviewed Tuesday afternoon, did not.
"I'll tell you, it's a stopper," Ms. Pawlowski, an insurance cost-control manager who is voting for Mr. Clinton, said of the Perot accusations. "Something's wrong with him. He's paranoid."
Dawn Stickler, 58, a claims manager at the same company, agreed. " 'Paranoid' is the word," she said. "I started out for Bush, but when I first listened to Perot, I thought he was doing real well. Then kablooey! He drops out, and you're back to square one. Now Perot is out of the question. He's flaky. This latest stuff is part of a pattern."
"Maybe Bush has learned his lesson on the economy," Ms. Stickler continued. "We don't know what Clinton will do. He may make things worse. I'm leaning to Bush. I don't think he'll hurt the economy more than he has. Clinton might."
 
Who Are You Supporting Now?
 That is what constitutes a political endorsement these days. In the interviews here and in similar conversations over the last three weeks in Albuquerque, N.M., and St. Louis, few people offered rousing support for their picks for President. In fact, most were almost sheepish in talking about their candidate, spending much of the conversation shaking their heads as they listed his faults. It seems that the most common expression in America these days is: "the lesser of three evils."
Therein lies what seems to be the reason for the fickle electorate. With party loyalty a thing of the past and with people voting not out of passion but out of defense -- to keep the damage to a minimum -- it all makes for paper-thin support.
"They all have problems, so you go with the guy who is the lesser of three evils," said Bill Baier, 40, sitting at a lunch table of mostly claim managers at a medical insurance company. He will vote for Mr. Bush.
"You don't know what to believe," Mr. Baier went on. "Did somebody really do such and such? Was there really a letter? Did somebody try to do something to somebody's kid? I blame the media for the confusion. This stuff keeps coming at you and you don't know. You think Perot might be good, but then you're told he has no foreign policy experience. The media tears them all down, so nobody looks good. So you don't really vote for anyone. All you're left with is: Who will do the least damage? Bush is no genius. But I least I know him."
This city of 190,000 people, which has not suffered anywhere near the economic losses of the motor cities of eastern Michigan, used to be sure-fire Republican. But that has been changing over the last 25 years. Mr. Bush carried the city in the 1988 Presidential election, but not by an overwhelming margin -- 54 percent of the vote to 45 percent for the Democrat, Michael S. Dukakis. The city's newspaper, The Grand Rapids Press, has endorsed Mr. Clinton, the second time in a hundred years it has endorsed a Democrat. (The last time was in 1980.)
That the area is up for grabs in this election is made clear by the repeated treks here by Mr. Clinton and Mr. Bush. The Democrat was in town just last Saturday. The Republican is due Thursday. Statewide polls show Mr. Clinton's lead in Michigan falling from 50 percent to 41 percent since the debates, with Mr. Perot rising to 19 percent from 8 percent. Mr. Bush has stayed at 30 percent. That ranking seems in line with what is happening in Grand Rapids, although Mr. Clinton's lead seems much tighter here.
 
'I'm Back With Ross'
 "I voted for Bush last time," said Ray Fisher, a 34-year-old body shop manager who had dropped by the makeshift Perot headquarters here to pick up a lawn sign. "I started toward Clinton. But I liked Perot's toughness. When he dropped out, I went back to Clinton. But he and Bush are the same -- finger-pointers. Now I'm back with Ross."
As for whether he believes Mr. Perot's accusations of dirty tricks, Mr. Fisher said, "They're probably true." And as for any anger at Mr. Perot for pulling out of the race, he added, "I see it as a wise move to take the attacks off of him."
But other onetime Perot supporters are not so forgiving. It is clear that for all the millions he may spend on television advertisements, Mr. Perot cannot overcome their anger at his betraying them. And while many people say they like his ideas, they say they cannot envision him as President because of what they see as his dictatorial ways, his strange personality and ultimately his untrustworthiness.
"I was on board with Perot," said the Rev. Ulysses Hines, 66, pastor of a black church, the Church of the Living God. "But when he dropped out, that was it. You can't trust him. I like his ideas, but you can't trust the man." Mr. Hines's car now has a Clinton-Gore bumper sticker.
Throughout the last two weeks, the religious right has been pressing hard here in radio talk shows and radio advertisements, and a number of voters said that as a result they had joined the swelling ranks of the great vote-switchers.
"I was all set for Clinton until I heard he wanted to put gays and lesbians in the military; that soured me on him," said Jerry Tappin, 55, a boiler operator who will now vote for Mr. Perot and who refused to believe that the Texas businessman also supports allowing homosexuals in the millitary.
For Brian Terrell, a 24-year-old duct cleaner, the revelation came during a Monday morning radio talk show. "I was leaning toward Perot," he said. "But I heard he supported abortion. Now I'll stay with Bush."
With Election Day less than a week away, few people seem to be genuinely undecided. They may profess to be undecided at first, and that is what they may tell the poll takers, but after a little wheedling and cajoling, they usually fess up.
"I really haven't decided," said Brian Jackson, a 40-year-old accountant.
Oh, come now, Mr. Jackson. You know.
"Well, I'm leaning toward Clinton," he confessed. "But don't let that get out. My neighbors are all Republican."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. Bill Clinton got an early start in Houston yesterday in his counterattack against President Bush. (Associated Press) (pg. A1); The Rev. Ulysses Hines, Paster -- "I was on board with Perot, but when he dropped out, that was it. You can't trust him."; Dawn Stickler, Claims manager -- "I'm leaning to Bush. I don't think he'll hurt the economy more than he has. Clinton might." (Photographs by Deb Kik for The New York Times) (pg. A22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

CITY: GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (92%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: TRAVELERS LIFE INSURANCE CO (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GRAND RAPIDS (MICH); ALBUQUERQUE (NM); ST LOUIS (MO) UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (92%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PUBLIC OPINION PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); LIFE INSURANCE (63%); 

PERSON: SCHMALZ, JEFFREY; PEROT, ROSS; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



963 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Republicans;
Bush Steps Up Attacks on Democrat's Character

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: COLUMBUS, Ohio, Oct. 28

 BODY:
After a brief attempt to turn his campaign to his own vision for the country, President Bush crisscrossed Ohio today, buoyed by a belief that the Republican attack on Gov. Bill Clinton's character is working, and campaigning on a single theme: trust.
Waving his arms in triumph at new public opinion polls and trumpeting the recent signs of economic growth, Mr. Bush campaigned through a crescendo of rallies in Lima, Toledo, Strongsville and Columbus that ended with a blizzard of red, white and blue confetti and balloons here this evening. 
 He grew more boisterous with each event, cheerfully revising his epithet for Senator Al Gore, the Democratic Vice Presidential nominee, from "Ozone Man" to a simple "Ozone" by the time he arrived here. As his attack on Mr. Clinton mounted and the crowd shouted louder and louder for him to "give 'em hell," Mr. Bush flashed his off-center grin and told them to be patient because "I haven't attacked the media yet."
Mr. Bush tried out a new closing line for his speech here but was so excited that he could not seem to form the words. Trying to say he would do his "level best to lead this country to new heights," Mr. Bush ended up proclaiming something like "new husskites." Undaunted, he waved and left the stage.
 
Surge of Exuberance
 Much of Mr. Bush's exuberance seemed to spring from two new "tracking polls," including one by the Gallup Organization that suggested the race was tightening drastically. But the real situation remained unsettled, as the other showed no real change in the contest between Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton. A tracking poll involves daily interviewing over an extended period of time with results for two-day periods combined and released.
Along the trail today, Mr. Bush mentioned a host of opponents besides Mr. Clinton: Jimmy Carter, the "talking heads" in Washington, prison inmates in Arkansas, the national teachers' union, "environmental extremists," trial lawyers and "the gridlock guys," as Mr. Bush was referring to members of Congress today.
But Mr. Bush, whose strategy for months has been to get within a few points of Mr. Clinton and then close the gap by proclaiming that he is the more trustworthy, saved his strongest fire for Mr. Clinton's draft record and his assertion that the Democratic nominee is trying to "be all things to all people."
 
More Trustworthy Babysitter
 In a state where he is behind but must win, Mr. Bush stood at every stop in front of a sign announcing that this city "trusts Bush." He asked voters whom they trust to run the military, to keep taxes low, to hold families together and to uphold the nation's morals. At one point the actor Bruce Willis, who introduced Mr. Bush at two stops, even said that Mr. Bush would make a more trustworthy babysitter.
The President, who has tried to paint Mr. Clinton as a waffler, said, "You can't have a lot of but's sitting there at the Oval Office."
While Mr. Bush campaigned, his staff began running two new commercials driving home the chosen theme for the final days. The ads showed people on the streets of Cincinnati questioning Mr. Clinton's honesty. One said, "I think he's full of hot air." Another said: "He dodged the draft. He can't be straight on anything."
In case the point was still unclear, Mr. Bush spelled it out explicitly in Strongsville, a town near Cleveland, where more than 10,000 people gathered across from Town Hall to cheer the President on. "I tell you what's going to decide this election: it's going to be character and trust," he said.
 
Comeback Strategy
 Campaign aides acknowledged that Mr. Bush was still struggling on the electoral map. The Bush camp is ceding important states, like California, New York and Illinois, to Mr. Clinton and is building a strategy based on regaining enough strength to hold Texas, Florida and the rest of the South, and come back in states like Ohio, Michigan, Missouri and Wisconsin. Mr. Bush's travel schedule for the coming days reflects that: Michigan and Missouri in the next two days and a train ride through Wisconsin on Saturday.
Mr. Bush's problems were evident tonight during an hourlong question-and-answer session with voters and broadcasters who grilled him on everything from his economic policies to race relations and even foreign affairs. Mr. Bush seemed to grow testy at times, and at one point, waving his arms vaguely, he blamed the women's movement for the furor over the nomination of Clarence Thomas to the Supreme Court.
But for public consumption, everything about the day was intended to convey the sense that the comeback Mr. Bush has been predicting has already started. Behind the scenes, Bush aides organized large crowds, filling them with schoolchildren and, here, with five marching bands, to increase the noise level.
 
Help From Hollywood
 On stage, the President produced movie stars to help build crowds. Mr. Willis called Mr. Bush the man who ended the cold war. "Like all people here in Toledo, Ohio," he said at the first rally of the day, "I grew up under threat of nuclear attack."
Heckled by Clinton supporters in Strongsville, Mr. Bush did not lose his temper as he has at other moments in recent weeks. Instead, he shot back: "These guys feel it slipping away from them. They know we're moving. They know we're moving forward. I feel sorry for them."
On the tarmac beneath the wings of Mr. Bush's Boeing 747, Air Force One, members of the Oak Ridge Boys, a country-western band that often travels with the President, mingled with reporters talking of a new optimism in the crowds.
 
'A Sorry Record'
 As the President tries to chip away at public confidence in Mr. Clinton, he is keeping the Democrat's draft record and antiwar activities in Europe in the 1960's as his central theme.
But dusting off an attack that he used with great effect against Gov. Michael S. Dukakis in 1988, Mr. Bush is also devoting much time to asserting that Mr. Clinton could not be trusted to run the country because he has had a "sorry record" as Governor of Arkansas for 12 years.
"Governor Clinton better clean up his mess in Arkansas before fooling around with the United States of America," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush turning to greet the crowd yesterday after arriving in Toledo, Ohio, with James A. Baker 3d, the White House chief of staff. (pg. A1); President Bush acknowledging supporters at the end of a rally yesterday in Columbus, Ohio. (pg. A24) (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (91%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: GALLUP ORGANIZATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (94%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (91%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTION ISSUES US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); LAWYERS (50%); TEACHER UNIONS (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (94%); BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); BRUCE WILLIS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



964 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
G.M. directors are preparing to promote John F. Smith to chief executive, but they are signaling that he will have six months to a year to prove he can perform radical surgery on the auto maker. [Page D1.] Two of G.M.'s three nonautomotive units reported higher third-quarter profits. [D7]
Ford Motor lost $158.9 million for the third quarter, down from a loss of $574.4 million in the 1991 period. [D7.] 
 Borden is planning a sweeping reorganization that will idle about 8 percent of its work force. The giant food company also reported a $376.8 million loss. [D3.]
Bill Cosby wants to buy NBC from General Electric, even though the network has said it is not for sale. [D22.]
The White House approved a $1.85 billion plan for General Dynamics to upgrade 399 F-16 fighter jets. [D3.]
McDonnell Douglas may start trimming costs by contracting out some work that has been performed in house. [D4.]
Olympia & York's bankruptcy plan was received more favorably by Canadian creditors than U.S. creditors. [D4.]
Phibro Energy and other U.S. partners in a joint venture with a Russian oil and gas production company have temporarily stopped financing the project because of a dispute over taxation. [D4.]
Anheuser-Busch reported a 8.5 percent earnings rise, citing higher profitability in its beer and entertainment businesses. [D4.]
Bethlehem Steel and Wheeling-Pittsburgh posted losses, while LTV reported a large profit. [D5.]
I.B.M. will offer memory chips for sale on the open market in large volume for the first time. [D5.]
Nationsbank's chairman will retire at year-end and be succeeded by the company's chief executive. [D5.]
 
The Economy
Durable goods orders fell in September for the third consecutive month, dropping 0.4 percent to $118.9 billion. Also, Americans' personal income rebounded in September. [D1.]
 
International
World trade talks have become paralyzed because of a series of missteps by U.S. and European negotiators. [D1.]
A Japanese restaurant chain's plan to import frozen sushi from the U.S. faces an uncertain future. [D5.]
 
Markets
Blue-chip stocks were buoyed by bargain hunting, but trading remained cautious ahead of the Presidential election. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 15.67, to close at 3,251.40. [D8.]
The bond market got a late second wind, with the price of the 30-year bond up 3/32 percentage point to yield 7.60 percent, down from 7.61 percent Tuesday. [D18.]
The dollar continued its steady advance, settling higher across the board on world currency markets. [D19.]
Lumber futures rose the daily limit amid speculation of a smaller-than-expected timber harvest. [D19.]
 
Today's Columns
The big water projects bill on President Bush's desk represents a radical change in the way subsidized Federal water would be distributed to Californians, with environmental and urban interests ahead of agriculture. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
Ross Cosmetics Distribution Centers appears less troubled than many people thought in a report filed with the S.E.C. by a special committee of the board, but it painted a gloomy picture of corporate governance. Kurt Eichenwald: Market Place. [D8.]
With Oldsmobile sales declining, marketing experts debate what approach G.M. can take to revive the mark, amid reports it is headed for extinction. Advertising. [D22]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%); GD (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (56%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (54%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (54%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (56%); BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (54%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); BONDS (85%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (75%); OUTSOURCING (75%); FUTURES (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (73%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (73%); FACTORY ORDERS (71%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); STOCK INDEXES (70%); LABOR FORCE (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); LUMBER & PLYWOOD MARKETS (69%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (69%); BOND MARKETS (69%); CURRENCIES (66%); JOINT VENTURES (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); MEMORY CHIPS (64%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (61%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (60%); ELECTIONS (60%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (60%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



965 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: Water-Project Spending Falls Short for 2d Time

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER

 BODY:
For the second year in a row the Dinkins administration has not spent all of the money it could have for repairs of the city's water mains, sewers, treatment plants and other environmental projects.
The Commissioner of the Department of Environmental Protection, Albert F. Appleton, who last December said he hoped to meet his capital-spending goals for this year, said yesterday that there were good explanations for why he did not spend the money allotted to his agency in the city budget, including that most projects cost less than expected. 
 But the City Comptroller, Elizabeth Holtzman, criticized the department, contending that the department's failure to let $680 million in contracts, almost half of the money authorized for the rebuilding effort, meant that the city could not take full advantage of the strong competition for construction work during the recession and the resulting cheaper prices.
The budget approved in June 1991 authorized $1.55 billion for water and waste projects for the fiscal year that ended June 30 of this year. But the department let contracts totaling only $868 million, Ms. Holtzman said in a letter sent Monday to Mayor David N. Dinkins.
By the Comptroller's standard, the department let contracts for only 56 percent of the $1.55 billion. Other city agencies, on average, let contracts worth 73 percent of their spending plans, during the fiscal year that ended in June, Ms. Holtzman said.
Ms. Holtzman also said the department's underspending prevented the city from creating as many construction jobs as it could have if the $1.55 billion had been spent. The city does not actually lose any money because construction projects are financed through the sale of bonds.
 
Earlier Criticism
 Last year, the department was criticized because its failure to let $600 million in contracts for construction and repairs caused the city's program to upgrade water mains and sewers to fall sharply behind schedule. Mr. Appleton asserted that his agency had in fact turned around its construction program in the last year, in large part because of the attention focused on problems the previous year, in which the department fell behind schedule. Mr. Appleton said the department's building effort accomplished more in the last 12 months than ever before.
He said it was true that his agency had awarded contracts worth less than the amount authorized by the city. But he said that Ms. Holtzman failed, in her analysis, to take into account legitimate reasons why his construction plan was reduced during the year.
He said that the authorized spending approved in any city budget is always adjusted to account for changes in plans and in economic and construction conditions.
In the city's capital budget approved in June 1991, the Department of Environmental Protection was authorized to let contracts worth as much as $1.55 billion during the fiscal year. In September 1991, when some city agencies revised their spending plans, Mr. Appleton's department stuck to the $1.55 billion estimate.
 
Plant Cited
 In January 1992, Mr. Appleton said, the department sharply reduced the overall spending plan to $792 million. Among the reasons, he said, was the removal from the plan of a proposal to rebuild the Newtown Creek sewage-treatment plant in Brooklyn -- a project estimated to cost nearly $300 million.
He said that the only way his agency could have performed appreciably better would have been to proceed with its flawed design for rebuilding the Newtown Creek sewage-treatment plant. And that, Mr. Appleton said, would have made no sense.
The agency also estimated that it would save, during the 12 months of the fiscal year, about $175 million because so many projects were being bid at prices well below what had been anticipated, Mr. Appleton said. That estimated savings, which was realized because competition among contractors drove down bids during the recession, was applied toward a reduction in the overall construction-spending plan.
Projects amounting to an additional $80 million were also removed from the department's list for a variety of reasons, Mr. Appleton said. Among them, he said, was that the department tries to time some water-main projects to coincide with street rebuildings by the city's Department of Transportation, so that streets are torn up only once.
Mr. Appleton's department also moved forward an additional $69 million in projects that had been planned for the current fiscal year, which ends in June 1993, because of the favorable economic climate for construction.
As a result, the department's final goal, a slight modification of the one set in January, called for the agency to let contracts valued at $847 million during the fiscal year that ended last June, Mr. Appleton said.
By the end of June, the department had let $868 million in contracts, and department officials boasted that they had managed to exceed their authorized spending.
But Ms. Holtzman argued that the officials could make that claim only because they had lowered their spending goal by nearly half during the year.
Mr. Appleton said he objected to her suggestion that his department had lowered its spending goal to make itself look good. "The most pernicious thing about this letter is the suggestion that the change from September to January was done deliberately because we were not going to meet our target," Mr. Appleton said of Ms. Holtzman's letter to the Mayor.
He contended that, by adding the $175 million saved because of lower-than-expected construction bids to the $868 million in contracts that were let, spending for the fiscal year exceeded $1 billion. "We had far and away the best construction year in D.E.P.'s history," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WATER; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; CONTRACTS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LABOR CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); BUDGETS (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); CONTRACT AWARDS (74%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); 

PERSON: FINDER, ALAN; HOLTZMAN, ELIZABETH (COMPTROLLER); DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); APPLETON, ALBERT F (COMR) ALBERT F APPLETON (93%); ELIZABETH HOLTZMAN (78%); DAVID N DINKINS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



966 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Albania Is Less Violent; Still, Its Economy Festers

BYLINE: By DAVID BINDER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 28

 BODY:
Albania, racked by violent public disorders both before and after democratic elections in March, appears to have halted what was widely perceived as a gradual descent toward anarchy, a senior official of the Tirana Government and American diplomats say.
While bands of robbers still roam the countryside, the recently reorganized police forces have managed to isolate them, using vehicles and communications equipment acquired from Italy, said Bashkim Kopliku, the Minister of the Interior, who is visiting the United States. In an interview, Mr. Kopliku said "public order is not quite good, but it is better." 
 Last winter, a wave of looting swept Albania as hungry villagers sought to augment their meager food supplies. Warehouses were plundered in Kavaje, Durres, Pogradec, Librazhd, Cepan and Lushnje. Then and later, armed gangs robbed citizens and foreigners in Tirana, the capital, and other cities.
Over the summer, the Albanian police were reorganized, including a purge of nearly a third of the 2,600 officers who had served the former Communist Government, Mr. Kopliku said. In the battle against crime, draconian measures were sometimes taken. In June, when two brothers were apprehended after they robbed a family of five of the equivalent of $50 and bludgeoned them to death, they were publicly hanged in Tirana.
Mr. Kopliku, who is also a deputy prime minister, said that under a new law the police can now frisk people on the street for weapons and will begin investigating crimes on the spot instead of leaving that task to special commissions, as was the Communist practice.
The economy of Europe's poorest country remains in bad straits, Mr. Kopliku said, with many industrial plants working at only 5 percent of capacity and unemployment widespread. But agriculture has picked up as a result of privatization of 90 percent of what had been collectivized property during 46 years of Communist rule, according to Mr. Kopliku and to a State Department official.
After a slow start in 1991, United States economic assistance for Albania has picked up. A total of $83 million has been sent so far this year. Among the many aid projects is a shipment of $15 million worth of cotton for milling in a factory outside Berat. This will provide employment for about 15,000 Albanians for the next five months, an Administration official said.
Since Albania began to shed its Stalinist system nearly two years ago, the country has received "next to nothing" in terms of foreign investment, he said. But during a visit to Tirana earlier this month, Michel Camdessus, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, said he saw no serious obstacles to Albanian compliance with the fund's recommendations for economic change.
The political scene under President Sali Berisha, who won overwhelming endorsement in the March elections, has become "tense" as factions in his party vie for power in Parliament, the State Department official said.
One faction is headed by Gramoz Pashko, an economist and a co-founder of the governing Democratic Party with Dr. Berisha. Mr. Pashko and several other members of Parliament this month formed a new party named the Democratic Alliance, in opposition to what they call the "autocratic rule" of Dr. Berisha.

GRAPHIC: Map of Albania showing location of Tirana.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ALBANIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: TIRANA, ALBANIA (94%); 

COMPANY: TIRANA GOVERNMENT&AMERICAN (83%); STATE DEPARTMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TIRANA GOVERNMENT&AMERICAN (83%); STATE DEPARTMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ALBANIA ALBANIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); TIRANA, ALBANIA (94%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PRIVATIZATION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); ROBBERY (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); FOOD CHARITIES (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); TRENDS (68%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (63%); 

PERSON: BINDER, DAVID; KOPLIKU, BASHKIM (MIN); BERISHA, SALI (PRES) BASHKIM KOPLIKU (93%); SALI BERISHA (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



967 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: Venezuela Stable, but Fragile, Since Coup Attempt

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, Oct. 23

 BODY:
Nine months after an army coup attempt nearly toppled civilian democracy here, Venezuela's paradox endures: Latin America's most muscular economic growth in a country suffering from political jitters.
On the economic side, Venezuela, rich with oil, is still the star of the Americas. 
 Undimmed by the coup attempt, the economy grew by 8.5 percent in the first half of this year, down only slightly from the gain of 10.4 percent in 1991. During the first half of this year, a record $555 million in foreign investment flooded in, four times the level of the corresponding period last year.
"The real surprise is how well the economy has stood up," said Michael M. Skol, the United States Ambassador here. "All the time new companies are coming in. During the last six quarters, Venezuela essentially had the fastest growth rates in the world."
 
A Symbolically Important Trip
 On the political side, President Carlos Andres Perez has weathered bitter opposition in congress, in the streets and in the barracks. A wide range of politicians interviewed here this month predicted that Mr. Perez, whose 70th birthday is Oct. 27, will serve out the last 15 months of his five-year term.
In one sign of stability, Mr. Perez flew this month to Germany for Willy Brandt's funeral. It was the first time the President had been able to leave his country since rebellious Army units tried to kill him on his return from a European trip last February.
"Despite the Feb. 4 uprising, the military's conduct has been in support of the democratic process," the President said in an interview in his palace office, which is still scarred by bullet holes from the coup attempt. "The street protests are being coordinated by small groups who have no support in the neighborhoods."
But scattered terrorist incidents, continued unrest among Army officers and widespread popular antipathy to Mr. Perez make for a tense political climate in Venezuela, which is the second-largest source of oil imports for the United States, after Saudi Arabia.
 
Out of Sight but Not Out of Mind
 Almost weekly, newspapers carry reports of military plots, real or imagined. Though he is still behind bars, the leader of the uprising in February, Lieut. Col. Hugo Chavez Frias, continues to rank as Venezuela's most popular political figure in public opinion polls. (President Perez and his Government regularly get disapproval ratings of 75 percent.)
Nerve-racking incidents abound.
Although the colonel's popularity has ebbed, his image was emblazoned on banners carried earlier this month by hundreds of student protesters here. "CAP out!" the students chanted, referring to the President by his initials.
In the last month, an "anti-corruption commando" shot and wounded a labor leader who had been released on bail on corruption charges and threw a hand grenade in the garden of Blanca Ibinez Lusinchi, the wife of Mr. Perez' predecessor, Jaime Lusinchi. Mrs. Lusinchi, who fled Venezuela to avoid embezzlement charges, won political asylum in Costa Rica last month.
On Oct. 12, the President's bodyguard shot and killed two inebriated Guajiro Indians who were about to crash their pickup truck into a bus carrying the President. In a measure of the nation's jitters, many Venezuelans believed it was an assassination attempt; the bolivar, the nation's currency, promptly lost 6 percent of its value against the dollar.
"It's another example of the Government's lack of credibility," admitted Angel Zambrano, the Information Minister, when asked about his failure to quell the assassination rumor.
 
Apathy Is a Strong Opponent
 Although Mr. Perez promised "big changes" after the coup attempt, Venezuela's political parties remain autocratic and detached from the citizenry, and virtually no one has been jailed for corruption, a problem that scores high among complaints here. While unemployment has dipped in recent months, inflation this year is expected to be about 40 percent, double the Government's target.
The President's political position is particularly fragile in Caracas, a sprawling city of migrants that is home to a quarter of Venezuela's 20 million people. In the last election here, a mayoral contest in December 1989, only 27 percent of eligible voters cast ballots; even fewer are registered as members of political parties.
In February 1989, the alienation was shown in riots after Mr. Perez announced reductions in subsidies for food and gasoline. About 300 people were killed by army troops, a police action that left many officers bitter.
Defenders of civilian rule hope the political calendar will channel frustration to the ballot boxes. Last summer, Mr. Perez narrowly beat back two congressional attempts to cut short his term. With presidential elections scheduled for December 1993, candidacies are already taking shape.
 
Big Names on the Sidelines
 The nation's two most popular figures do not seem likely to win.
Colonel Frias, a nationalist with hazy economic views, is expected to sit out the vote in jail. He now awaits a court-martial on charges of leading the rebellion, which left dozens dead.
Another military uprising is "highly probable," Colonel Frias predicted in a statement smuggled out of jail in August. But Government officials believe the military unrest has been defused through salary increases, changes in command, housing loans, scholarships for overseas study, the strengthening of military intelligence and the appointment of a general to the post of Foreign Minister.
In a series of blunt statements here, visiting Bush Administration officials have warned that a coup would provoke chaos in relations with the United States, the largest single market for Venezuela's oil exports.
Support for Rafael Caldera, a populist who served as President 20 years ago, is not expected to endure: in Venezuela, where half the population is under 30, it seems doubtful that voters will elect a 77-year-old who first ran for President when Harry Truman was in the White House.
Mr. Caldera, who boasts that his ideas on state leadership of the economy have changed little since the late 1950's, seems out of step with trends to liberalize the state-dominated economy. By the end of Mr. Perez's term, the Government plans to privatize about 60 state-owned companies and to open sectors of the state-dominated oil industry to foreign investment.
Indeed, surveys of investor confidence indicate that business people do not believe that the political tension is strong enough to negate the geological fact that Venezuela enjoys the world's largest proven oil reserves outside the Persian Gulf.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Despite the Feb. 4 uprising, the military's conduct has been in support of the democratic process," said President Carlos Andres Perez of Venezuela. But there have been scattered terrorist incidents and widespread popular antipathy to Mr. Perez. (Elizabeth Brooke/The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Venezuela's Growth shows the change in Venezuela's gross domestic product from '87-'92. (Source: Central Bank of Venezuela)
 
Map of Venezuela showing location of Caracas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VENEZUELA VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; ASSASSINATIONS AND ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATIONS; TERRORISM COUPS (94%); ARMIES (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ASSASSINATION (88%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); ARMED FORCES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); TERRORISM (69%); SHOOTINGS (69%); CORRUPTION (68%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (68%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (64%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (63%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (62%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (55%); BAIL (50%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES; PEREZ, CARLOS ANDRES (PRES) HUGO CHAVEZ (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



968 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Funding Gap Widens

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 28

 BODY:
The gap between Federal spending and revenues widened to a record $290.2 billion in the year ended Sept. 30, the Government said today.
The deficit surpassed by 7.7 percent the previous record of $269.5 billion, reached in fiscal 1991. David Munro of High Frequency Economics, a New York-based consultant, said the first order of business for the new Congress probably would not be a fiscal stimulus package. 
 Rather, it probably will be a measure raising the national debt ceiling from $4.145 trillion, which is likely to be reached during the middle of the January-March quarter.
As high as the 1992 deficit was, it still amounted to far less than the Bush Administration's January forecast of $399.7 billion and was below its mid-July prediction of $333.5 billion.
Economists attributed the better-than-expected performance to a delay in spending on bank and savings institution failures. In the spring, the House voted down a bill that would have authorized the continued operation of the Resolution Trust Corporation, which handles failed savings and loans.
In fiscal 1992, government spending totaled $1.38 trillion and accounted for 23.6 percent of the entire economy. Revenues amounted to $1.09 trillion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (55%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (55%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); DEBT CEILING (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); BANK FAILURES (72%); SAVINGS & LOANS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



969 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN;
Candidate Perot Might Learn From Strategist Perot

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DALLAS, Oct. 28

 BODY:
Looking at the way he has planned his campaign, almost any candidate would long to have Ross Perot as a campaign manager. But few handlers would like to have him as a candidate.
As a tactician, Mr. Perot has devised a campaign strategy that focuses a strong, clear message on the economy and using his vast financial resources to get that message out through paid advertising. At the same time he has minimized his weaknesses, limiting time on the stump where he can be a rambling, awkward speaker and, for the most part, keeping away from reporters who tend to draw out his white-hot temper. 
 As a candidate, however, he ignited a distracting controversy with accusations that Republican operatives sought to besmirch his daughter Carolyn and disrupt her wedding.
In addition, he has allowed himself to become the flame that attracts the likes of Scott Barnes, a proponent of unsubstantiated tales of worldwide conspiracies, who drew Mr. Perot into an unseemly attempt to entrap a top Texas Republican.
 
Erring With Flair
 Indeed, at times there seems to be two Ross Perots.
"He's a good strategist and tactician," said Frank I. Luntz, a poll taker who worked for Mr. Perot in the first phase of his campaign. "He's got about a 90 percent success rate. The best political strategists have about a 70 percent success rate. But the problem is that the 1 in 10 mistake is usually big."
Even associates of Mr. Perot acknowledge that his interview on "60 Minutes," where he made the assertions of Republican "dirty tricks," and his surprise appearance at a news conference here on Monday, where he repeated the accusations, were errors that a smart campaign manager would not have allowed to occur.
Yet it is difficult to separate Ross Perot the campaign manager from Ross Perot the candidate. Moreover, even when Mr. Perot had veteran political strategists like Edward J. Rollins and Hamilton Jordan advising him, the strong-willed billionaire did not listen to them.
 
Sure-Footed Ad Campaign
 When Mr. Perot got back into the race, many political professionals felt that without seasoned political strategists to advise him, he would fall flat on his face. He did not.
In the 28 days since his return Mr. Perot has done a masterly job in rehabilitating his image and clawing his way back into the Presidential race. His commercials have created enough of a sense of urgency over the national debt to make a vote for an independent candidate seem perhaps the only way to avert a crisis. His half-hour programs on the economy, complete with charts, seem authentic and appealing to voters weary of the mudslinging of the other candidates.
He injected himself into the three Presidential debates, where he seemed a refreshingly unrehearsed alternative to President Bush and Gov. Bill Clinton. And he has spent $34.8 million on advertising, broadcasting many of his commercials during sports events like the World Series and Monday Night Football. These shows not only have high ratings, but their audience is primarily men, a group more receptive to Mr. Perot's can-do image.
"During the month of October, he moved from 7 percent to 20 percent in the polls, and his negatives continued to fall," Mr. Luntz said. "That's the biggest run in such a short time that any independent candidate has ever had."
But Mr. Perot the tactician, has, at times, been tripped up by Mr. Perot the candidate. His biggest mistake may have occurred over the weekend, when he publicly asserted that the Republicans were plotting against his daughter and planning to wiretap his telephones.
 
Distracting From Message
 The story about his daughter, for which he has yet to offer any proof, may have helped him with some voters by banishing the image of Mr. Perot as a quitter who abruptly left the race in July because he could not take the heat. Here is a man, some voters may reason, who was willing to give up his goal to protect his family.
But by not coming forward with corroboration from a credible source, Mr. Perot not only risks his own veracity, he reinforces the image of a man willing to make seemingly wild accusations on the slimmest of evidence.
Mr. Perot's involvement in an undercover operation to offer stolen information to Jim Oberwetter, head of the Bush campaign in Texas, also creates an image of a man who would stop at nothing to destroy a political rival. "He talks about his family," an indignant Mr. Oberwetter said today. "I have one, too. And my three daughters don't want to see their daddy in jail."
The charges and countercharges have also shifted the focus of the Dallas billionaire's campaign away from his core economic message. In recent days Mr. Perot's aides have vainly tried to turn news stories back to the issues. Nonetheless, his rise in the polls appears to have stalled.
Ross Perot the strategist seems to have gauged well the public mood. He has discerned that many voters have become fed up with the usual brand of incumbents and blow-dried candidates. Even as he obfuscates, he has created an aura of himself as a straight-shooter who speaks his mind. But as a candidate, he doesn't seem to know, or seems incapable of knowing when to stop.
"It has a lot to do with when he uses his head or uses his heart," said Mr. Luntz. "When Ross Perot uses his head, he's unbeatable. He's focused, straightforward and compelling. When he uses his heart, sometimes his emotions get carried away."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: TEXAS REPUBLICAN (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (61%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A; PEROT, ROSS BILL CLINTON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



970 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: Florio Offers Plan to Pay Health Costs

BYLINE: By JOSEPH F. SULLIVAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NORTH BRUNSWICK, N.J., Oct. 28

 BODY:
Facing a 30-day deadline for changing the way New Jersey pays for its uninsured residents' health coverage, Gov. Jim Florio today proposed subsidizing private health-care groups like health maintenance organizations to cover those residents.
But Mr. Florio left it to legislators to find a way to pay for the new coverage. New Jersey's present method of financing health care for the uninsured -- a surcharge on the insurance bills of those who can afford to pay -- has been struck down by the courts, and the Governor and legislative leaders have agreed to end it by Nov. 30. 
 Mr. Florio said his plan would enable thousands of uninsured New Jersey residents to buy insurance while reducing the cost of providing health services.
 
Cheaper Family Coverage
 His plan would cover the costs of preventive care items like immunizations, as well as primary care expenses like doctor's visits and tests, hospitalization and prescriptions. Mr. Florio wants working families who are squeezed out of the health insurance market by premiums up of to $6,000 a year to be able to obtain coverage from a state-sponsored system for $1,260 a year.
"Our exclusive reliance on hospitals as the health care provider for people without insurance is bad medicine and bad economics," Mr. Florio told a symposium of the New Jersey Public Health Association here. "We can't solve our health-care crisis just by pouring money into a broken system. Money spent on prevention and keeping well is a much better investment than money spent the way we spend it now."
Mr. Florio wants to borrow a page from the system Hawaii has been using for 20 years, which provides coverage for 98 percent of all state residents. But Hawaii can require businesses to cover employees because its law was enacted before a more restrictive Federal statute.
Mr. Florio said many elements of his proposed plan, known as New Jersey Shield, still must be worked out. But he said he wants to shift away from an exclusive reliance on hospitals as the health care providers for the uninsured to a new system that assigns such residents to a "primary care giver." That could be a local physician or a community health center.
 
Emphasis on Prevention
 "It will be a managed-care system where the emphasis will be on prevention and primary care, not a system that waits for an emergency," he said.
The new system, Mr. Florio said, would not replace the private health insurance market, Medicaid or Medicare, but "will complete the health-care umbrella" for working people and those temporarily without jobs. He said it would bridge the gap between what they can afford and what a good managed-care program costs. He said the state would not get into the insurance business itself, but would contract with existing providers of managed care.
Under New Jersey Shield, "gatekeepers" would guard against unnecessary tests or treatment. Insurers would be chosen by bid through the state, with three or four options available to patients in each county.
Subsidies would be provided on a sliding scale to uninsured workers, people who are temporarily unemployed and those in part-time or seasonal jobs.
For example, a family of four making $33,500 a year would pay $105 a month, with the state paying the remainder of whatever the cost turns out to be. Those making above 300 percent of the Federal poverty level, or $40,020 for a family of four, would not be eligible for subsidies. They could still buy into the plan at full price.
To pay for the plan, Mr. Florio said he would sign any revenue-raising measure passed by the State House "within reason," as long as it also included two reforms he wants -- a requirement that all insurance companies insure everyone who asks for coverage, and that rates be fixed so that everyone pays the same premium, regardless of age, gender, residence or past medical history.
Mr. Florio, a Democrat, said "it would be folly" for the Republican-controlled legislature to send him a revenue-raising measure without the reforms he asked for, since they would reduce the cost of insurance.
 
Concern in the State House
 Brenda Bacon, Chief of Management and Planning for the Governor, said the reforms could cut the number of uninsured residents from 800,000 to between 400,000 and 500,000. She said the cost of subsidizing their managed care under Mr. Florio's plan would be about $450 million, or about $300 million less than the present system.
Donald Sica, the executive director of the General Assembly said he did not know whether New Jersey could emulate Hawaii's system. "But even if it should work, and we haven't been told enough to make a judgment," he said, "it wouldn't begin until Jan. 1, 1994, and has nothing to do with our immediate problem" of replacing the hospital surcharge.
A standard benefits package under the proposed system would include preventive care -- immunizations and screenings, for example -- with no co-payments or deductible; primary care -- prenatal care, physical exams, well-child care, family planning and diagnostic tests -- with no deductible, no co-payments for the first two visits and $5 payments for subsequent visits; emergency room visits with a $25 co-payment; prescription drugs with a $3 co-payment, and hospitalization with a $200 deductible and a 20 percent co-payment up to $1,000 limit for those below 250 percent of the poverty level and up to $5,000 for everyone else.
Marvin Rubin, the president of the New Jersey Public Health Association, called the Governor's program a good start toward reform, but added: "I personally feel we have to go further." Dr. Rubin said he favored a single-payer system for all health care services, but said that is probably not politically feasible.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); HAWAII, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); HAWAII, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; FINANCES; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); HEALTH CARE (91%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); MEDICARE (78%); FAMILY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (74%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, JOSEPH F; FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV) JIM FLORIO (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



971 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Durable-Goods Orders Fall As Personal Incomes Climb

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 28

 BODY:
Issuing the latest in a series of inconclusive economic reports, the Commerce Department said today that new orders for durable manufactured goods eased four-tenths of 1 percent in September, while personal incomes climbed seven-tenths of 1 percent.
Economists cautioned against taking either report at face value, saying the orders were stronger than they appeared, while the income figures were weaker. The reports followed Tuesday's report that the economy expanded at a 2.7 percent annual pace in the summer quarter, compared with 1.5 percent in the spring, a pace analysts considered unsustainable. 
 The decline in orders, a widely followed but volatile indicator of future factory activity, was the third in a row. Such a string of declines has not occurred since the first quarter of 1991, when the economy was clearly in recession.
Nonetheless, economists were mildly heartened today to see that orders rose five-tenths of 1 percent when military goods are excluded and jumped 4.1 percent for nonmilitary capital goods, a gauge of business investment. Moreover, shipments of durable goods, defined as those intended to last at least three years, rose 1.4 percent, reversing a two-month decline.
"Over all I'd say it's a weakish report, but there were some positives," said Ian Borsook, an economist for Merrill Lynch & Company.
At the same time, analysts continued to be disturbed by a persistent erosion in unfilled orders, the backlogs that sustain current operations. These fell 1.3 percent last month, the 13th straight decline, to the lowest overall level since December 1988. Backlogs also fell nine-tenths of 1 percent with military business excluded.
"The divergent components of the orders data indicate pockets of strength and weakness, and in this respect only further cloud an economic situation that was already murky," said Gordon Richards, economist for the National Association of Manufacturers. He predicted "continued stagnation" in the current quarter "as consumption slows down again."
The main contributor to the $500 million order decline, to $118.9 billion, was an 8.4 percent drop for aircraft and other transportation equipment. The smaller primary metals sector slumped 10.2 percent, the biggest loss since March 1989. Military orders dropped 15.7 percent, to $5.4 billion, the report also showed.
Partly offsetting these, however, were a 5.6 percent gain for electrical machinery and a 2.3 percent gain for non-electrical machinery.
 
Distorted by Weather
 Today's income and spending figures were distorted by the weather, which obscured what economists said was essential flatness. The Department said the rebound in personal income from the effects of Hurricane Andrew, which hit Florida and Louisiana in August, more than offset declines attributed to Hurricane Iniki, which hit Hawaii in September.
This produced the seven-tenths of 1 percent increase in incomes, to an annual rate of $5.08 trillion, the biggest advance since December. Consumer spending climbed by the same percentage, to $4.12 trillion, the biggest rise since January. Both income and spending eased two-tenths of 1 percent in August.
Among the hurricanes' effects for which the Department made adjustments were the loss of rental and proprietors' income from uninsured losses to homes and businesses, wages lost from work disruptions and losses from crop damage. September's rise in income also benefited from subsidy payments to farmers.
Without the hurricane-related adjustments and the subsidy payments, personal income edged up one-tenth of 1 percent in September, compared with a six-tenths of 1 percent increase in August, the Department said.
Both income and spending last month, after hurricane adjustment "were weak, even though at first glance the data appear strong," declared Marilyn Schaja, an economist for Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. "Wage and salary income actually fell."
The seven-tenths of 1 percent rise in consumer spending resulted from a 1.2 percent increase for services -- 57 percent of the total -- a nine-tenths of 1 percent increase for durable goods and a two-tenths of 1 percent decline for nondurables.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Durable Goods Orders" tracks manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods since April 1991 (pg. D1); "Personal Income" tracks total personal income before taxes over the same period. (Source: Commerce Department) (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (84%); MER (NYSE) (84%); 8675 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); INCOME DURABLE GOODS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); FACTORY ORDERS (92%); NEW ORDERS (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RECESSION (77%); STATISTICS (77%); SHIPMENTS (73%); DEFENSE ORDERS (73%); PRIMARY METAL MFG (73%); HURRICANES (69%); TROPICAL STORMS (60%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



972 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Campaign Trail;
And What of the Also-Rans? Most Act Like Good Sports

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr.

 BODY:
Before the 1992 campaign finally ends, here's a catch-up on what's doing with the candidates who got left in the dust of the spring primaries and caucuses:
Most are being good political sports and working for their party's nominee. But not all. 
 On the Republican side, Patrick J. Buchanan, the hard-right commentator, has spent most of the last two months on the road, telling crowds that he and President Bush still have their differences but that the President is nevertheless the best bet for conservatives -- until 1996.
Among the Democrats trampled by Gov. Bill Clinton on his way to Madison Square Garden, Gov. L. Douglas Wilder of Virginia is working black voters for Mr. Clinton in key states like Michigan and Florida. Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa is working liberal Democrats, especially big labor in the Middle West. And Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska is mostly working to send more Democrats to the Senate, although he throws in a pitch for Mr. Clinton at the end of each appearance.
Former Senator Paul E. Tsongas of Massachusetts is out there saying he supports Mr. Clinton. But mostly he talks about the failure of both Mr. Clinton and President Bush to come up with an economic plan that suits his bite-the-bullet philosophy.
And then there's former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California.
He's still out there, too, campaigning to the beat of his own drum, still warning that special interests are taking over America. He says he'll vote Democratic on Nov. 3, but hardly ever mentions Mr. Clinton's name.
Why? "He hasn't asked for my help," he explains.
 
If It's Tuesday, It Must Be Heaven
 This is the point in Presidential campaigns when candidates begin to slip, exhausted, into a political twilight zone in which days and states and towns and airports and crowds become one big jumble.
Proof?
On Tuesday, President Bush flew into Kentucky, one of three states on his schedule that day, for a rally at Paducah Community College. Some 15,000 people were there to greet him. It went like this:
President: "Let me just say at the outset, I'm very pleased to be here -- and then back again -- back for me in this great part of. . .of. . ."
Crowd: "Kentucky!"
President: "I was going to say, of western Kentucky. It makes you agree with the guy who said, 'Heaven is a Kentucky kind of place.' "
 
Clinton Is Spurned By Arkansas Daily
 In the race for newspaper endorsements:
The Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, the largest daily in Governor Clinton's home state, says it will maintain its tradition of not endorsing Presidential candidates, even a home-grown candidate. Never a great Clinton fan, the paper said in an editorial published yesterday:
"Bill Clinton is a master politician, but what principles, if any, inform his politics? Who knows? And if we don't know, how can we recommend him to America as a leader?"
On the other hand, the Governor has won the endorsement of The Phillipian, the student newspaper at Phillips Academy, the Massachusetts prep school that President Bush attended.
Mr. Bush did win, with reservations, an endorsement from The New York Post, which cited in an editorial today his "acute understanding of how the world works."
 
On Long Shots And Dark Horses
 There are polls. And then there is Ladbrokes.
The London betting house, self-proclaimed "World's Largest Bookmaker," has just changed the odds on the Bush-Clinton-Perot race. Those on the President have been cut from 3-to-1 to 5-to-2, while those on Mr. Clinton have gone from 1-to-6 to 1-to-4. Mr. Perot remains at 20-to-1.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER INC (56%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK (56%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP (56%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN LP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR BILL CLINTON (92%); TOM HARKIN (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JERRY BROWN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



973 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: Dow Advances 15.67 in Broad-Based Rally

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks closed higher yesterday, buoyed by bargain hunting, but trading remained cautious ahead of the Presidential election.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 15.67, to close at 3,251.40. Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was 203.9 million shares, compared with 201.7 million on Tuesday. In the broad market, gainers pulled ahead of declining issues 1,016 to 732. 
 Investors tended to focus on companies reporting quarterly results, and some bought in anticipation of a stronger market next week because of the election.
Big names, including International Business Machines, General Motors, Ford and McDonnell Douglas were featured stocks.
Secondary stocks had a strong day, with the Nasdaq index ending up 4.44 points, at 601.39.
Two economic reports offered mixed news. Durable-goods orders for September fell four-tenths of 1 percent, but both personal income and consumption rose seven-tenths of 1 percent.
In general, analysts said they sensed a better tone to the economy, a factor that should bode well for the stock market.
"There is some evidence the economy is doing better," said Gerald Simmons at Interstate/Johnson Lane. "I think that's reflected in the fact we are holding here pretty well."
After the close of stock trading, Cable News Network said President Bush has pulled nearly even with Gov. Bill Clinton in a new poll.
Philip Orlando, equity portfolio manager at Unity Management, said very selective buying was helping to buoy stocks. "You see the market drifting, with individual stocks reacting to specific announcements."
He noted that Monsanto gained 1, to 55, after news that it would repurchase some of its stock, while Du Pont was up5/8, to 48 7/8, after releasing good earnings.
Shares of Life Re Corporation, a new issue, surged to 24 7/8, up from its offering price of 22 a share. The company is a Connecticut-based reinsurance company.
Genzyme Corporation sank 3 5/8, to 39 3/8. It reported third-quarter profits that were below expectations. Smith Barney lowered its earnings estimates on the company for 1992 through 1995.
General Motors continued its losses, dropping 1, to 31 3/8; worries that it may cut its dividend have plagued the stock. Ford slipped 1 3/4, to 38 1/8, after posting a 43-cent-a-share loss in the third quarter.
I.B.M. rebounded slightly, gaining 1 3/8, to 67 1/8.
The Standard & Poor's composite index of 500 stocks rose 1.64, to 420.13. The American Stock Exchange index gained 2.35, to 379.00.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%); IBMC (BRU) (57%); IBM (NYSE) (57%); IBM (LSE) (57%); MON (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (65%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (54%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (54%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (54%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LIFE RE CORP (65%); GENZYME CORP (64%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (57%); WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (55%); MONSANTO CO (54%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (52%); NYSE MKT LLC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); BONDS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); DURABLE GOODS (75%); CONSUMPTION (71%); REINSURANCE (61%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



974 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 264 words

HEADLINE: Nicaraguan Chief Warns General

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: MANAGUA, Nicaragua, Oct. 28

 BODY:
President Violeta Barrios de Chamorro threatened today to dismiss her military chief, Gen. Humberto Ortega Saavedra, after he declared his intention to lead the Nicaraguan Army until 1997.
Mrs. Chamorro accused General Ortega -- brother of the former Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega Saavedra, a leader of the rival Sandinistas -- of overstepping his authority and said he could be removed from his job "tomorrow, day after tomorrow or at any moment" on her decision. 
 "Mr. Ortega can say what he wants," Mrs. Chamorro said. "But I want to make clear that he cannot be there until 1997. He can't say that, because he is only the head of the army and the one who makes the decisions here is me."
General Ortega declared on Tuesday that he would resist attempts by critics to replace him and that he intended to remain head of the army until 1997, when a "professionalization" campaign would be completed.
He also said he would not permit the military, which once had 100,000 troops but now has only 18,500, to be further reduced.
Critics here and elsewhere, especially Senator Jesse Helms, Republican of North Carolina, have called for General Ortega to step down because of his ties to the leftist Sandinista Government led by his brother. Mr. Helms asserts that General Ortega's presence gives the Sandinistas too much power and has prevented Government reforms. The conservative Senator's ability to hold up United States financial aid to Nicaragua prompted Mrs. Chamorro to visit Europe to ask for money to help ease her country's growing economic problems.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NICARAGUA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NICARAGUA NICARAGUA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ARMIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); POLITICS (74%); CONSERVATISM (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); LIBERALISM (70%); 

PERSON: CHAMORRO, VIOLETA BARRIOS DE (PRES); ORTEGA SAAVEDRA, HUMBERTO (GEN); ORTEGA SAAVEDRA, DANIEL; HELMS, JESSE (SEN) JESSE HELMS (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



975 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1297 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Advertisements;
Volleys of Data Replace Blatant Attacks of 1988

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 28

 BODY:
In a striking and unnoticed departure from the more blatant attack commercials that ruled in 1988, the Presidential campaigns this year are loading their advertisements with statistics and attribution in more subtle efforts to stretch the truth.
The advertising this year is just as tough, but it seeks to appear more credible by giving the impression that it depends on documentation and third-party sources. Instead of having the candidate or the announcer launch a direct assault, many ads are no nonsense and even dull, quoting newspapers and ordinary-looking citizens. 
 Several ads were deliberately made to look amateurish, with hand-held cameras and images out of focus, to fight any impression of slickness. Candidates have also sought to suggest they have substantive programs when they do not by closing their ads with '800' numbers people can call to get copies of their issue blueprints.
 
Longer and More Detailed
 In another effort to give the impression the candidates are long on substance, the campaigns have produced longer-running ads. Ross Perot has drawn large audiences with his 30- and 60-minute "infomercials," which may have led President Bush's campaign this week to begin broadcasting two-minute commercials.
"The obsession in ads this year is crystal-clear messages on both sides," said Henry Sheinkopf, a veteran Democratic consultant. "People want real information because they don't trust us. They don't trust the system. The ads are information laden."
Frank Greer, who produces Gov. Bill Clinton's advertising, said, "We've got a whole team of people we call the fact checkers. There's a new standard for honesty."
But as Kathleen Hall Jamieson, dean of the Annenberg School of Communication at the University of Pennsylvania, noted, raw facts do not always make for honest advertising. "This is the year," she said, "in which form is being confused with substance, and the candidates are getting away with it."
While there have been few blatant inaccuracies, many ads this year go out of their way to convey believability even as they sometimes play with the facts.
 
Citing News Media
 The Clinton and Bush campaigns have both turned to Time Magazine for credibility in their commercials. As the names of economists who back the Governor's fiscal remedies scroll on the screen, a Clinton ad unveiled today also states that an independent panel convened by Time concluded that he has the best economic solutions. The Bush campaign turned to Time for one of the harshest ads of the season: With foreboding background music, the ad featured a cover of the magazine that had an ominous-looking photo negative of Mr. Clinton with the headline, "Why Voters Don't Trust Clinton."
These are some other examples:
*A Bush commercial features working-class people saying how much more in taxes they would have to pay if Mr. Clinton becomes President. The ad invited viewers to identify with the people making the charges because they were portrayed as ordinary citizens. And although it makes several disputed assumptions about the Democrat's economic plan, it cannot be branded clearly false because it is hard to refute a projection about the future.
*A Clinton commercial shows clips of Mr. Bush making rosy pronouncements about the economy, while an announcer tells viewers how each of Mr. Bush's predictions did not come true. The facts are correct, but they do not always support the conclusion because they are taken out of context. The ad is made to appear credible by mimicking a news broadcast; the announcer has a neutral voice and the facts are attributed on the screen.
*A Perot commercial features sentences that crawl across the screen to suggest substance, and that the Texas billionaire has the know-how to reduce the national debt. But nowhere does the ad say how Mr. Perot would grapple with the deficit, nor does it mention his controversial prescription of higher taxes and cuts in entitlement programs.
 
Ads Getting More Scrutiny
 The campaigns are working so hard to sell credibility because they perceive that the public regards political ads as dishonest and nasty. The campaigns also are mindful that the press has been analyzing commercials with intensified vigilance this year. (The Bush campaign today showered reporters with 35 pages of documentation to back up its latest ad bashing Mr. Clinton; the Clinton campaign retaliated with a seven-page rebuttal.)
As John Carroll, a Boston ad consultant and public radio commentator put it, "Statistics can lie, but from a perception standpoint, it goes down better with the public if you have attribution."
Nevertheless, the latest New York Times/CBS Poll shows that the public is still deeply skeptical of political commercials. In the survey, based on nationwide interviews with 1,467 registered voters from Oct. 20 to Oct. 23, about 7 out of 10 voters said they had seen political commercials in the previous week.
But only 18 percent said the Clinton ads were "almost all truthful," and 19 percent said the Bush ads were. Though most voters doubted Mr. Perot's ads as well, they were viewed as more credible. Thirty-seven percent said the Perot ads were "almost all truthful." The poll has a sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
Mr. Perot's ads may seem more credible because they are the most straightforward, and they refrain from attacks. But some analysts say it is because Mr. Perot has been brushed off as having little chance to win and thus has not been subjected to prolonged, critical press coverage or to sustained attacks from Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton.
"The one person whose advertising has had the greatest likelihood of impact is Perot," Ms. Jamieson said. Until his accusations this week of "dirty tricks" by Republicans, she said, Mr. Perot's "claims were left unchallenged, so there was no conflicting information in the news environment that questioned the guy with a pointer and all the statistics in his ads."
While it is difficult at this stage to determine what ads have been most effective, this much seems clear: with candidates' faces plastered all over the talks shows and with a public that distrusts commercials, paid political advertising has played a secondary role in shaping the campaign dialogue.
"Because there is so much accessibility in the news area of media," said Sig Rogich, who directs the Bush campaign's advertising effort, "if you see any surge for the President, I think it comes directly from the President, and the ads take a second seat."
That has not stopped the campaigns from pouring every cent they can -- probably as much as $100 million in all before the general election is over -- into selling their candidates.
The Times/CBS News poll shows that the commercials this season have reinforced peoples' attitudes about candidates but have done little to sway their votes. Forty-one percent of the voters said the ads had made them more confident that they had chosen the right candidate.
But fifty-five percent said the Bush ads would have no effect on their vote; 52 percent said the Clinton ads would have no effect, and 49 percent said that of the Perot ads.
Dean Alger, a political science professor at Moorhead State University in Minnesota, said the public distrust was evident again and again recently when undecided voters were asked to view the latest ads in the Presidential race.
In a typical response to ads of all three candidates, one viewer concluded after watching an ad portraying Mr. Clinton as a successful Governor: "The ad was impressive if the facts were accurate." Then, after watching a Clinton commercial that attacked Mr. Bush, he wrote, "The second ad was too negative, tearing down other candidate rather than telling about himself."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; ETHICS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); INFOMERCIALS (78%); ETHICS (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (71%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



976 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1595 words

HEADLINE: Silicon Valley Takes a Partisan Leap of Faith

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 28

 BODY:
Two months ago, a roomful of the nation's top high-technology executives met for dinner at the ranch of Apple Computer's chairman, John Sculley, to discuss something most of these lifelong Republicans never thought they would: supporting a Democrat, Gov. Bill Clinton, in the Presidential election.
Over poached salmon at Mr. Sculley's 15-acre spread in Woodside, Calif., the executives expressed a general frustration with the economic policies of President Bush and ultimately agreed to endorse Mr. Clinton. Though perhaps somewhat skeptical that any politician would make good on campaign promises, many were impressed that Mr. Clinton had held private meetings with them to help formulate a national technology policy. Many of them also believed his pledge to promote the resulting plan: form a partnership between business and the Federal Government to revive the economy and make critical industries, particularly in high technology, more competitive. 
 "I am still a Republican but I am voting for Bill Clinton because I don't believe America's industries can survive four more years of President Bush," Mr. Sculley said in an interview. "Clinton asked us to develop a technology policy for him, and that was refreshing, because he not only embraced a lot of the ideas we put forth but we believe he really plans to implement them."
Mr. Clinton has made high technology a core of his campaign to "get America growing again," and he has used that platform to cultivate important executives who not only would help with fund-raising but would enhance his credibility on economic and business issues.
Mr. Clinton has frequently cited such support on the campaign trail and referred to it several times during the Presidential debates. Last month, the Clinton camp made public a list of about 400 corporate executives who have endorsed the Democratic ticket of Mr. Clinton and Senator Al Gore. About 10 percent of these executives manage high-tech companies, and many of them supported Mr. Bush in the last election.
"Our primary objective was to show the American public that if long-term, tough-minded, Republican business leaders would go against their norm and go with Clinton, then there's no way he's a traditional tax-and-spend Democrat," said Ellis Mottur, director of business and high-tech constituencies for the Clinton campaign. "We figured that an endorsement by respected chief executives, whose judgment people trust, would give us that extra level of credibility, and we feel we have succeeded."
Bush's High-Tech Roster
The high-tech endorsements would seem to have put President Bush on the defensive. In mid-October, the Bush campaign released its own list of about 75 high-tech industry leaders who it said have endorsed the President's re-election. But the Bush response on high-tech was hastily arranged and not well coordinated, officials with the President's campaign acknowledge privately.
The Bush list includes such high-tech luminaries as Robert E. Allen, chief executive of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company; John F. Akers, chief executive of the International Business Machines Corporation, and John F. Welch Jr., chief executive of the General Electric Corporation.
In a round of telephone calls to nearly half the executives on the list, most would not come to the phone to discuss their endorsement. In fact, some of their spokesmen said the Bush list had come as a surprise to their bosses.
In some instances, top senior executives who have come out for Governor Clinton find themselves at odds with executives within their companies who support Mr. Bush. For example, John A. Young, president and chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, who has voted Republican his entire adult life, has said he endorsed Mr. Clinton because he believes the Governor "understands business and technology and the need for a motivated, highly skilled work force."
But David Packard, the company's chairman, favors Mr. Bush, saying in a statement: "Clinton talks about the future, but his ideas come from the past -- and his tax proposals will kill America's technology companies."
Mr. Young is chairman of an independent research group called the Council on Competitiveness, which has made recommendations to the Bush Administration over the years, without much result. Mr. Packard, in a recent interview, offered a possible explanation of why Mr. Young would support the Democratic candidate: if Mr. Clinton is elected, Mr. Young would have a chance at becoming head of the Commerce Department.
But Mr. Young would not be interviewed, and a Hewlett-Packard official, Robert C. Kirkwood, said, "Mr. Young is not in the business of accepting positions he has not been offered."
Meanwhile, in more than two dozen interviews with top business leaders who have come out in support of Governor Clinton, most of the executives said they believed he offered the greatest hope for economic change, particularly in working with the Democratic-controlled Congress.
"Candidates promise a lot of things when they are campaigning, so I guess we are taking a huge risk with Bill Clinton," said the chair-man of the Compaq Computer Corporation, Ben Rosen, who has voted for Republicans for the last 20 years. "But when you look at getting legislation passed that will stimulate the economy," he said, "Clinton has a much better chance of getting it through Congress than Bush."
The executives backing Mr. Clinton said that judging by the nation's persistent recession and sagging competitiveness, Mr. Bush is a failed chief executive who in their view has no plan or vision for reversing the country's economic downturn. And they said they were deeply troubled by the strong right-wing sentiments expressed at the Republican convention.
Economic dissatisfaction is perhaps felt most strongly in the high-tech industries, which have lost market share to foreign competitors inareas like computer chips and consumer electronics. High-tech executives say they are angry at the Bush Administration for not vigorously enforcing trade laws penalizing foreign companies that sell products below cost in this country and for refusing on ideological grounds to help American industry become more competitive with foreign rivals that receive assistance from their governments.
"Almost all of us in the high-tech area have faced intense competition from foreign firms, and the only way we can respond is for business and government to work together the way they do overseas," said Paul A. Allaire, chief executive of the Xerox Corporation. "Bill Clinton has indicated his willingness to do this, where Bush has not."
Jerry K. Pearlman, chairman and chief executive of the Zenith Electronics Corporation, the only American-owned maker of television sets, said he was supporting Mr. Clinton because he believes the Governor will aggressively enforce trade laws that prohibit dumping by foreign competitors.
"We have been jerked around by the Reagan and Bush Administrations for too long," Mr. Pearlman said. "Our industry has been devastated by dumped products from abroad because they refused to enforce the laws. If you ignore the laws because the State Department or Treasury or Defense says don't pick on our friends, then that's forcing business to go to the plate with both hands tied behind your back."
At the heart of Mr. Clinton's national technology policy, forged with the help of industry leaders, is the belief that the Federal Government must play a larger role in shaping industries and markets because most foreign countries now help their businesses to compete more effectively. To achieve that goal, Mr. Clinton proposes a variety of programs, including tax cuts for start-up companies and tax credits to prod existing companies to pursue target technologies and to offset research and development costs.
The policy calls for investing in so-called "21st-century infrastructure," like a high-speed data highway that would enable companies to collaborate on research and design and help doctors across the country to share medical expertise. The Clinton plan also includes skills training for all American workers and a shift from military research and development to civilian programs.
"The nice thing about these policies is that they are not only good for our industries but the nation as a whole because of their long-term impact." said Dick Brass, president of the Oracle Data Publishing unit of the software company Oracle Systems. Mr. Brass helped draft the technology policy and persuade executives to support Mr. Clinton.
 
Free-Market Critics
 But critics of the Clinton plan say that attempts by a centralized bureaucracy to manage industries ultimately fail because government is untrustworthy and inefficient. They support a free-market approach, leaving companies to their own devices and their own best instincts.
"This partnership idea is pretty fuzzy, and I'm not sure that the answer to our success is to imitate Europe and Japan," said James A. Abrahamson, who is chairman of Oracle Systems and has endorsed Mr. Bush. "Let the market decide, not people with bureaucratic judgment."
Jeremy Shane, deputy issues adviser for the Bush campaign, said the President believed that the Federal Government should support only very expensive basic research, like supercomputing, leaving development of specific technologies to the free market.
Mr. Shane attributed Mr. Clinton's inroads among high-tech executives to the deteriorating California economy and to the Governor's adept presentation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER AND COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT AND SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (58%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (58%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: APPLE INC (58%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; ENDORSEMENTS ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); AL GORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



977 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Campaign Profile;
Divining Clinton's Gut-Level Strategy

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LITTLE ROCK, Ark.

 BODY:
When the subject turned to the talking heads on television who were proclaiming the Presidential race over as soon as the debates were, James Carville narrowed his eyes into angry little slits. He grabbed the basketball sitting near his desk at the center of the Clinton campaign "war room," clutched it with both hands like a man planning to do violence to a ripe melon, and started to sputter.
"I'm mortified, mortified, mortified, mortified," said Mr. Carville, the Clinton campaign's chief strategist, diviner and spiritual center. "It just drives me crazy. Every piece of hot air, pontifical wisdom that's come out over the past year has been wrong. I'm not nervous. It's more like gripping fear." 
 Mr. Carville, whose reaction reflected both his political instincts and his superstitions, has seen his anxiety inch up as the race has tightened. But it is not just because the stakes are enormous for his candidate. If Mr. Clinton is elected Nov. 3, perhaps the only thing more remarkable than his rise from little-known Arkansas Governor to President will be Mr. Carville's rise from a struggling, third-tier political consultant a few years back to the nation's hottest political strategist.
 
Honed Attack in Pennsylvania
 Democrats and Republicans alike say the Presidential campaign was defined by last year's Pennsylvania Senate campaign, when Mr. Carville brought Harris Wofford to victory from a 47-point deficit against former Attorney General Dick Thornburgh in a race that depicted Mr. Thornburgh's ties to the Bush Administration as evidence of an out-of-touch creature of Washington. Mr. Carville went directly from there to the fledgling Clinton campaign.
Mr. Carville prudently disclaimed any pivotal personal role, but added: "The Wofford race is to this year's cycle in politics sort of what John the Baptist was to Christianity."
Whether the Presidential race will follow the Wofford script now seems open to question. But at least two things are clear about the 48-year-old Mr. Carville.
The first is that, as Lee Atwater once did for the Republicans, Mr. Carville has tapped into the gut of the electorate better than anyone else this year. The second is that beneath the wild-man image is a shrewd, sophisticated marketer who has crafted a deceptively rough-hewn image for himself as skillfully as he runs campaigns.
"Do I think I'm Chauncey the Gardener? No," said Mr. Carville, whose demonic smile, personal eccentricities and much-publicized romance with the Bush campaign spokeswoman, Mary Matalin, have made him a political celebrity. "But the idea that I'm a half-quart low has always worked to my advantage, has always kept the opposition just a little bit off guard, so I've never done much to contradict it."
Still, Mr. Carville's core can be discerned from the pictures of Louisiana's populist dynamo brothers Huey P. and Earl K. Long hanging from the blinds just above the 11 jars of Chef Dan's barbecue sauce stacked neatly on his desk.
"Our national pastime isn't baseball; it's politics," said Gus Weill, the dean of Louisiana political consultants, who gave Mr. Carville his start. "Where every little boy in other states wants to be Joe Dimaggio or Willie Mays, here he wants to Huey Long."
In truth, a decadelong recession and last year's Russian roulette Governor's race between Gov. Buddy Roemer, Edwin W. Edwards and David Duke, the former Klansman, have taken much of the fun out of Louisiana politics. But the response-a-minute, gut-level politics and theatrical blend of artifice and reality that define Louisiana politics define Mr. Carville as well.
His political career began in his teens as a bit player for raffish Louisiana politicians like Price LeBlanc, A.K.A. "The Tradin' Country Boy," a car dealer and unsuccessful state legislative candidate who ran under the Elvis-inspired slogan, "I want you, I need you, and I'll fight for you."
Mr. Carville stumbled through Louisiana State University in seven years, interrupted by a stint in the Marines, graduated from law school, and halfheartedly practiced law before hooking up with Mr. Weill in 1980.
He went out on his own in 1982, skating on the edge of oblivion until engineering a comeback victory for Robert Casey in his 1986 race for Pennsylvania Governor against William Scranton.
After the Wofford race, he was courted by most of the Democratic Presidential candidates and settled on Mr. Clinton, because, he says, he liked him.
"When I pick a candidate I've got to live in the same foxhole with him for a year," he said. "You've got to smell their breath a lot."
No one suggests Mr. Carville alone has shaped the hydra-headed Clinton campaign. And even his contributions can be hard to separate from his partner Paul Begala, who plays the benign Dr. Jekyll to Mr. Carville's Mr. Hyde.
But it is clear Mr. Carville has guided the Clinton campaign in two main ways: first by sharpening the campaign's strategy of immediate response to any charges; second by focusing the campaign's message and making sure it stays focused. With Mr. Clinton's advantage dwindling, however, he could face criticism that the tight focus turned into sitting on a lead.
Mr. Carville, like most of his peers, is not given to lofty philosophizing about what he does.
"I'm the tail," he said. "The candidate's the dog."
But he said he thinks, win or lose, this year's election will have a beneficial effect on politics.
"I think when it's written about, this is going to be a kind of campaign that's signaled not just a change in the way we govern, but in the way we run for office," he said. "I think campaigns are going to be a lot more information driven, and people are going to be dealing more directly with voters."
As for Mr. Carville's own future, three questions loom.
QUESTION #1 What will he do next? Having already said he would not want to live in a country that would employ him in Government, he plans to contemplate nature, lecture, cook and work for the re-election of Gov. Jim Florio of New Jersey. He and some friends speculate, only half in jest, about teaching at L.S.U.
QUESTION #2 When the race ends, will he and Mary Matalin ride off into the sunset? Since Dr. Joyce Brothers has already stated that the relationship can work, he says he thinks it can too. So does his mother, Miss Nippy Carville, author of a Cajun cookbook. "She's beautiful, lovely, intelligent," she said of Ms. Matalin.
QUESTION #3 What will his pre-election superstition be? During the Wofford race, Mr. Carville wore the same underwear (washed at night, he now claims) during the campaign's final week rather than break up favorable campaign karma. This time, he is still searching. "I've gotten up on the other side of bed, worn my clothes inside out, but nothing has sort of struck me yet," he said warily. "You can't force it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: James Carville, once a struggling consultant, could become the nation's hottest political strategist if Gov. Bill Clinton is elected President. The victory would follow Mr. Carville's success in helping Harris Wofford to win a seat in the Senate after Mr. Wofford had been behind by 47 points. (Rollin A. Riggs for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Chester James Carville Jr."
 
Born: Oct. 25, 1944, Fort Benning, Ga.
 
Current home: Washington.
 
Education: Ascension Catholic High School, Donaldsonville, La. (1962), Louisiana State University B.S. (1970) and J.D. (1973).
 
Career highlights: U.S. Marine Corps 1966-68; law practice 1973-79; consulting and campaigns for Dick Davis for Senate 1982; Gary Hart for President 1983; Lloyd Doggett for Senate 1984; Cathy Long for Congress 1985; Robert Casey for Pennsylvania Governor, 1986 and 1990; Wallace Wilkinson for Kentucky Governor 1987; Frank Lautenberg for Senate 1988; Zell Miller for Georgia Governor 1990; Harris Wofford for Senator 1991; Bill Clinton for President 1992.
 
Family: Single.
 
Interests: L.S.U. football, cooking, New Orleans rhythm and blues music.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BASKETBALL (77%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (75%); POLITICS (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); RELIGION (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER; CARVILLE, JAMES; CARVILLE, JAMES (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (92%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (57%); LLOYD DOGGETT (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



978 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bonds Gain on a Presidential Poll

BYLINE: JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Like a sailboat picking up a sudden gust, the bond market got a second wind just before trading finished in New York yesterday. The late action left the market a little higher on the day, with the price of the 30-year bond up 3/32 , to yield 7.6 percent, down from 7.61 percent Tuesday.
The late finish was powered by the results of a new Cable News Network poll which showed that the Presidential race had narrowed to 40 percent for Gov. Bill Clinton and 38 percent for President Bush. With a margin of error of three points, some traders saw the Democrat's lead, which was in double digits just days ago, evaporating. 
 While not the only factor moving the market this month, the uncertainty surrounding the Presidential election has played a role in the decline in prices and in yesterday's smart rally.
For bond traders, whether they are politically conservative or not, change is unsettling because of the uncertainty it creates. So some would see a Bush victory, for the short run, as a plus. And with Mr. Bush less likely to push for a major economic stimulus program, bond traders would be able to heave another sigh of relief.
 
Hard to Read
 But the reaction to the poll is still hard to read. Trading was thin yesterday because many big players have decided to stay out of the market until after the election, and in thin trading any move the market makes is exaggerated.
A rumor about the CNN poll -- that President Bush was in the lead -- had played a role earlier in the day, pushing bond and note prices higher after lunch and after the results of the Treasury's five-year note auction were announced. The auction, under a new single-price system being tested by the Treasury, seemed to go well, so that also helped the market.
But just before 3 P.M., about two hours before trading in New York winds down, the market appeared to lose all its momentum, giving up all its gains for the day and dropping below Tuesday's levels.
There was no news to account for the quick, across-the-board price decline. Instead, the market ran into what traders call technical levels and investors and dealers began selling when the price of the 30-year bond could not break through these ceilings.
Also, traders said at the time that the Tuesday rally and two days of Treasury auctions may have left dealers with a few more securities than made them comfortable ahead of the Presidential election.
Technical levels are the work of analysts who methodically plot every price move of a security and use the patterns that emerge to judge the direction of the market. These charts, when the market is moving up, produce what traders call resistance levels. And when the market is going down they are support levels.
 
 
Futures Contract
 Because these charts are followed closely by many dealers and investors they are used to make buy and sell decisions. The technical levels that were watched yesterday were on the futures contract for the 30-year bond. This contract, which is an agreement to buy or sell the 30-year bond at a set price in the future, trades on the Chicago Board of Trade. According to traders, the important price level was 103 7/32 .
What happened was this: The price of the 30-year bond futures contract began to rise on the poll rumor and the auction results, very quickly moving from just a tick under 103 to 103 8/32 .
But when the price inched over 103 7/32 , traders said there were sell orders waiting. Some selling came from big funds that speculate in the market. Other orders were from some investors who decided to take their profits here in case that level could not be breeched.
The market fell back on this selling but then rebounded again to pass just through 103 7/32 . Then there was more selling and suddenly there was no more buying. Traders in Chicago apparently decided for the moment, at least, that the resistance level could not be broken.
If that is the case, the theory says sell and that they did. Between about 2:15 and 3 P.M., when the Chicago market closes, the price of the bond fell from 103 8/32 to close at 102 21/32 , a drop of more than half a point.
The fall in Chicago, as often happens, washed over into the cash bond market in New York, pulling prices on bonds and notes and pushing up the discount rates on Treasury bills.
The yield on the five-year note that was auctioned yesterday jumped from 5.8 percent in the pre-auction, or when-issued, market to 5.85 percent around 3 P.M., reflecting a quick drop in the note's price. But the extra lift from the CNN poll, which was released around 4:30 P.M., brought the yield back down to 5.8 percent by the close of trading.
In the auction, in which all the notes are awarded at the same yield, the yield was 5.84 percent, far above the 5.54 percent at the September auction, which is a reflection of how much the market has fallen because of the election, the selling ahead of Treasury auctions and the Federal Reserve's decision in early October not to cut short-term interest rates a notch below the current 3 percent level.
Following are the results of the Treasury auction of five-year notes yesterday:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures) Median Yield . . . 5.79% High Yield . . . 5.84% Low Price . . . 99.615 Low Yield . . . 5.75% Accepted at low price . . . 87% Total applied for . . . $27,200,257 Accepted . . . $10,752,982 N.Y. applied for . . . $25,284,796 N.Y. accepted . . . $10,074,256 Noncompetitive . . . $508,000 Interest set at . . . 4 3/4%
The five-year notes mature Oct. 31, 1997.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Freddie Mac Yields" show average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates from 7/92 to 10/92 (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.); "5-Year Treasury Notes" shows average yields on 5-year Treasury notes for '91 and '92 (Source: Treasury Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CABLE NEWS NETWORK INC (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; TREASURY BONDS BONDS (94%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); BOND MARKETS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); CABLE TELEVISION (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



979 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1464 words

HEADLINE: In Suburbs, Vexation On Senate Candidates

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CROTON, N.Y., Oct. 27

 BODY:
It is possible to find people who say they are strongly for Alfonse M. D'Amato, or strongly for Robert Abrams. It's possible -- but it's much easier to find people like Mike Matzkin, who was asked today if he had made up his mind about the senatorial election.
"I've made up my mind that they're both idiots," snapped Mr. Matzkin, a camera company executive, as he stepped off a commuter train here. "You can feel free to quote me on that. What are they going to do, sue me?" 
 Mr. Matzkin's wife, Bea, who was at the station to meet him, was somewhat more diplomatic, but just as unhappy with the choices. She recoils at Senator D'Amato's opposition to abortion, but was also troubled when Mr. Abrams, the state Attorney General, called Mr. D'Amato a fascist. "A Senator should be able to control himself," she sighed.
With less than a week to go before New Yorkers give one of these men a six-year term in Washington, there is a remarkable sense of vexation and uncertainty among voters. And nowhere is the discontent more obvious than here in New York's suburbs, which many analysts describe as the race's crucial battleground.
 
Looking Elsewhere for Dignity
 It is, of course, a commonplace of this year's politics that voters say they are unhappy with the choices, or intend to pick the lesser of evils. But in this Senate race, routinely referred to as the nastiest in the nation, that sense of disgust is palpable. By contrast, many voters said they have struggled over whom to vote for in the Presidential race precisely because they do see something good in each man.
The unease is also reflected in a New York Times poll taken over the weekend in which 27 percent of voters described themselves as either undecided or abstaining in the Senate race -- compared with just 11 percent who gave a similar characterization of their feelings about the Presidential campaign.
The large number of undecided and unenthusiastic voters means the outcome of the election is unusually dependent on what happens in these final days of the campaign. The bright spot in this for Mr. Abrams, who has been badly outspent up to now, is that his strategy has focused on saturating the television airwaves with commercials in the final days. But many voters say that whatever decision they come to on Tuesday they already know all they need to know. So these weary voters may no longer be watching. Indeed, many said they would ignore the final debate on Sunday.
 
Look the Same, Act the Same
 In interviews in eight different communities on Long Island and in Westchester and Rockland Counties, many voters insist that they are so tired of the cacophony of this campaign, and of negative advertising, that they are ignoring the commercials altogether.
"To be honest with you, it's all starting to blur in my mind," said Brian Sheridan, a 35-year-old graphic designer from New Rochelle. "These guys even look very similar after awhile. You get confused. Their message is negative, and mentally you just start to turn it off."
Even the decided voters are angry. In Scarsdale, as sidewalk strollers looked at Halloween window decorations painted by village schoolchildren, Anna Decker said she was definitely voting against Mr. D'Amato. But as her three children started squabbling among themselves, she said of the television ads, "You just tune them out. It's like listening to my kids call each other names."
 
Media Faulted
 And on Long Island, Stephen R. Wiist, a librarian from Syosset, said he was thinking about skipping the Senate race altogether. "If I had my druthers, I might just vote for Perot and walk away. It's a real protest vote."
Some people blamed the news coverage more than they blamed the candidates themselves for the ugly tone of the Senate campaign. "The media has a lot of negative influence," said Ellyn Cioni of Smithtown, L.I.
Morton Mecklowsky, a 60-year-old community college professor of mathematics and philosophy from Stony Brook, L.I., said he was angered that, in his view, the media had portrayed Mr. Abrams and Mr. D'Amato in an equally negative light. "D'Amato is a gutter politician," he said. "Abrams is a decent human being."
Still, the prevailing attitude seemed to be more of a pox-on-both-their-houses variety. What makes that general contempt all the more surprising is that this is an election where voters do face a remarkable set of distinctions between the two candidates that could help them make up their mind.
 
Issues Define Candidates
 Mr. Abrams strongly favors abortion rights, is against the death penalty, wants massive defense cuts and a universal health-care program. Mr. D'Amato is anti-abortion, pro-death penalty, says the defense cuts would throw tens of thousands of New Yorkers out of work, and says the Abrams health plan would result in steep tax increases.
And even though many voters now seem fixated on what they view as each candidate's personal shortcomings, or say they are so perturbed at the campaign that they are not sure how the two men differ, it could well be these differences on the issues that determine their choice in the end.
There is some evidence that that is already happening, and probably the strongest drawing card for Mr. Abrams is his support of abortion rights. "I'm voting for Abrams because he's pro-choice," said Laura S. Obadiah, 26, a law student from Williston Park, L.I. "I'm not crazy about Abrams. I'm not really excited about voting for him but I feel like I have to because of this one issue."
But there are also plenty of single-issue voters whose opposition to abortion will make them side with Mr. D'Amato, even as they express reservations about his character.
Patricia Ramirez, 30, a nurse from Commack, L.I., said her past work at an abortion clinic had turned her into a staunchly "pro-life" voter who would back Mr. D'Amato. She objected to one television commercial by Mr. Abrams that emphasized his pro-choice position. "He just doesn't really know about it firsthand," she said. "He didn't see the women, the little girls really, who treated abortions like birth control."
 
Differing Perceptions
 Many other voters said they were far more concerned about the economy, but that does not mean that the interviews yielded any sense of consensus about who was the preferable candidate. Mr. Abrams, and the Democrats in general, tend to be seen as more likely to work for health care or to provide quicker relief from the ravages of the recession; but Mr. D'Amato and the Republicans are seen as better at holding the line on spending and tax increases.
"I think Abrams is the kind of guy who's going to be more personally interested in poor people," said Courtney Parchment, 19, a college student from Yonkers who is voting in his first election. "I think he'll help the homeless more often."
In any event, it is certain that neither candidate is seen as a leading spokesman for his cause. For instance, John Kallir of Scarsdale, owner of a Manhattan gallery, said of Mr. Abrams: "He's not a terribly interesting speaker. He's solemn and a little boring."
And Virginia Garbarini of New Rochelle, who was out shopping today with her daughter, Cathy Kostiw, said her fascination with Ross Perot only magnified her disappointment with the Senate race.
"Perot captures you," she said. "It's like he walks into the living room with you. She said she watched all 30 minutes of one of his recent program-length campaign ads. Asked if she felt the same way about Mr. Abrams or Mr. D'Amato, her daughter broke in as Mrs. Garbarini nodded, "Oh please. It's just political rhetoric from them."
If the uncertainty of the campaign could be captured in microcosm, it might have been done so by Jules Stern and Charles Siegel, registered Democrats, retirees and longtime friends, as they emerged from the Department of Motor Vehicles office in Yonkers.
"D'Amato's got more backbone than Abrams, Charlie," said Mr. Stern. "I'll say that for him." While Mr. Stern said he never really liked Mr. D'Amato ever since he ran over Jacob Javits in a brutal Republican primary in 1980, he said he was planning to vote for the Senator this time.
Mr. Siegel shook his head no. "He may be an advocate for New York, but he's too much of a wheeler-dealer for me," he said of Mr. D'Amato. "And he's been in there supporting the Bush program. Abrams, at least he's a change. He's a fresh face."
And if the attitudes could be summed up in a single response, perhaps it was the one from Alice Reynolds, a Bronxville homemaker who said she is seriously thinking of skipping over the Senate race when she went to the ballot box. "I think the problem for me is not that I don't know enough about this race. I think I know too much about the candidates."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jules Stern, left, and Charles Siegel of Yonkers disagreed on their choice for the Senate. "D'Amato's got more backbone than Abrams," said Mr. Stern. Of Robert Abrams, Mr. Siegel said, "He's a fresh face."; It's just political rhetoric from them," said Cathy Kostiw, left, of Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato and Attorney General Robert Abrams. She was shopping in New Rochelle with her mother, Virginia Garbarini.; "I think Abrams is the kind of guy who's going to be more personally interested in poor people," said Courtney Parchment, left, from Yonkers, who is voting in his first election. With him was Fernando Santiago.; "I've made up my mind that they're both idiots," said Mike Matzkin, a camera company executive, getting off a commuter train in Croton. His wife, Bea, said she was just as unhappy with the choices.
(Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SUBURBS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); POLITICS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); TRAINS (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE; ABRAMS, ROBERT (ATTY GEN); D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN) MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



980 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Illinois;
Senate Race Tightens Amid Dispute Over Ethics

BYLINE: By ISABEL WILKERSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Oct. 28

 BODY:
The bitter, bruising, potentially historic Senate race between Carol Moseley Braun and Richard S. Williamson is winding toward its final days with a fifth of the voters undecided and the once rabid heroine-worship of Ms. Braun appearing to have cooled.
In polls taken for The Chicago Tribune, Ms. Braun's lead has fallen from 34 percentage points in mid-September to 18 points this week, eroded by accusations that she avoided paying the Government for her mother's Medicaid bills, a steady drone of attacks on her ethics by Mr. Williamson and the appearance that she has coasted on her celebrity. 
 A newer poll, of 1,121 registered voters by the University of Illinois, put her lead at just 11 percentage points, with 28 percent undecided. Both polls had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
Ms. Braun, who upset Senator Alan J. Dixon in the Democratic primary after his support of Clarence Thomas for the Supreme Court, is still favored to become the first black woman in the United States Senate.
 
Tighter Race Possible
 But the race could be closer than the numbers suggest because, when it comes to black candidates, some white voters have tended to tell poll takers one thing and do another in the voting booth. Harold Washington, the late Mayor of Chicago, and Gov. L. Douglas Wilder of Virginia and other black front-runners reliant on white votes watched solid leads in the polls translate to dead heats on Election Day.
"This is a state with a very checkered history," said Dianne Pinderhughes, a political science professor at the University of Illinois at Urbana. "It split on the Civil War. There is a very small percentage of black residents south of the Cook County area. It's been very difficult to determine whether one can trust those high numbers."
In a state where blacks make up only 15 percent of the vote, Ms. Braun has waged a determinedly nonracial campaign, spending more time in white subdivisions in the suburbs than black two-flats in Chicago, talking about women's rights more than civil rights.
But not without risk. It is not certain whether her investment will pay off, whether Republican women who crossed party lines to cast protest votes for her in the primary will stick with her in the general election.
Political professionals also say that white skeptics will seize on a news report that Ms. Braun may have mishandled a $28,750 inheritance check signed over to her by her mother, Edna Moseley. Because the candidate's mother, a nursing home resident, receives Medicaid, Mrs. Moseley is required to report such income to the state. Mrs. Moseley says she did report the money, but the state has found no record of it. Critics say Ms. Braun, a lawyer, should have made sure her mother had reported the money.
"Serious questions have been raised about her, and a lot of them will bail out," said Bruce DuMont, a Chicago political analyst who is host of a national radio program, "Inside Politics." "She has given them an excuse."
Moreover, in the final days of the campaign, excitement is muted in the black electorate, the group considered the most loyal to Ms. Braun and therefore the one more easily taken for granted.
In some black Chicago neighborhoods, there is no clue that Illinois could be on the verge of making history. There are few yard signs or bumper stickers on many blocks, and the talk is more about Michael Jordan's gambling debts or police raids at the Cabrini-Green housing project than about Carol Moseley Braun.
"There just isn't any enthusiasm," said Lu Palmer, a longtime black community advocate who was a member of her steering committee. "It's just not there. Those that vote will vote overwhelmingly for her. The question is will they turn out?"
After being what Mr. Palmer called "almost invisible" in black neighborhoods, Ms. Braun is trying to rouse black voters in campaign swings this week.
Her tightrope walk between the races is evidence of the Faustian calculus that black crossover politicians have to use to keep blacks in their corner while not turning off whites. In effect, she has had to choose which parts of herself to market.
"In this campaign, Carol Moseley Braun being a woman is far more important than her being black," Mr. DuMont said.
Ms. Braun says she feels her responsibility is to the entire state. "If this campaign is about anything, it is that the people in this state can get beyond race," she said in an interview.
Because Ms. Braun took only 38 percent of the Democratic vote in the three-way primary, her goal has been to win over the mostly white, fairly conservative Dixon Democrats who voted against her in the primary. "She has a lot of ground to make up," Professor Pinderhughes said. "The black vote and the Democratic vote will not deliver her."
But Conrad Worrill, chairman of the Black United Front, a black advocacy group, who is a professor of history at Northeastern Illinois University, said, "We're hoping this tactic of appealing to voters throughout the state at the expense of firing up the black mass electorate doesn't backfire on the campaign."
What has kept Ms. Braun's campaign going is an extraordinary personal magnetism, adoring crowds of mostly white, mostly female voter-fans, lots of money, much of it from supporters outside Illinois, and the rarely spoken but always understood chance that she could make history by integrating the Senate.
She has raised $5 million, more than twice as much money as Mr. Williamson has, and began the last week of the campaign with $1 million.
While there appears to have been a slight drop in support from Republican women since the Medicaid furor emerged several weeks ago, Ms. Braun is counting on women like Anne Wray, a suburban independent, to carry her over the top.
Standing outside a campaign stop in Kane County, waiting for Ms. Braun to arrive, Mrs. Wray said, "We don't need another condescending white male in the Senate."
Over all, Ms. Braun's campaign has been a safe and cautious one, where she talks in broad generalities about things like a woman's right to abortion and increasing the Federal role in financing public education. In campaign appearances and advertisements, including three new television commercials this week, she has tried to link Mr. Williamson to trickle-down economics and to the Reagan and Bush Administrations in which he served in the early and mid-1980's.
Mr. Williamson, a lawyer, has painted Ms. Braun as a tax-and-spend liberal with what he has called "reckless" ideas, like universal health care, accused her of cronyism and shoddy management as Cook County Recorder of Deeds and tried to connect her to controversial black politicians like Representative Gus Savage, an Illinois Democrat.
As Mr. Williamson has struggled for name recognition, Ms. Braun has taken time from the campaign to pose for magazines like Vogue and Essence.
Her national fame and the attention paid to her possible place in world encyclopedias has obscured the campaign, many say. The Chicago Tribune chose not to endorse either candidate. In an editorial endorsing Ms. Braun with "misgivings," The Chicago Sun-Times said, "The purpose of this election is to choose a Senator, not commit a historic act."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Carol Moseley Braun's lead in the race for Senate from Illinois over Richard S. Williamson has fallen from 34 percent in mid-September to 18 points this week, because of accusations that she avoided paying the Government for her mother's Medicaid bills and a steady series of attacks on her ethics by Mr. Williamson. (Photographs by Steve Kagan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) MEDICAID (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) MEDICAID (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ILLINOIS UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: WOMEN; BLACKS (IN US); ELECTIONS; PRIMARIES; PUBLIC OPINION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (95%); VOTERS & VOTING (92%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); MEDICAID (89%); ETHICS (89%); POLITICS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WOMEN (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (72%); NURSING HOMES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); SUBURBS (63%); CELEBRITIES (55%); 

PERSON: WILKERSON, ISABEL; BRAUN, CAROL MOSELEY; DIXON, ALAN J (SEN); WILLIAMSON, RICHARD S CLARENCE THOMAS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



981 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1534 words

HEADLINE: A Rising Cuban-American Leader: Statesman to Some, Bully to Others

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MIAMI, Oct. 28

 BODY:
Jorge Mas Canosa and his bodyguards travel around town in a bulletproof Mercedes-Benz because he fears Fidel Castro may try to assassinate him. President Bush singles him out for praise when he speaks of how "the Cuban community has energized Miami," while Bill Clinton courts his support in hopes of winning Cuban-American votes. And world leaders like Boris Yeltsin have been his guests here.
By just about any standard, no Cuban-American is more influential than Mr. Mas. Through the Cuban American National Foundation, the group he helped to found 11 years ago as a source of political support for the Reagan Administration, Mr. Mas has become the most visible member of the Cuban-American community and one of the most effective power brokers in Washington for his cause, the fall of the Castro regime. 
 On Friday, Mr. Mas, who became an American citizen just a decade ago, stood only inches from Mr. Bush as the President signed the Cuban Democracy Act. The new law, one of Mr. Mas's greatest triumphs, takes several proposals that the lobbying group has long argued will hasten the downfall of Mr. Castro and makes them official American policy.
 
Talking to Bush and Clinton
 Then, on Tuesday, Mr. Mas flew to Tampa to meet with Mr. Clinton, whom he praised for his deep-seated commitment to "the ideals of freedom, respect for human rights and self-determination for Cuba." Mr. Mas said he had told the Democratic nominee that "your support was crucial" to passage of the law and that Cuban-Americans, nearly 90 percent of whom voted for Mr. Bush in 1988, "need not fear a Bill Clinton Administration."
But people in Miami who have disagreed with Mr. Mas's program, or who have questioned his motives, assert that he has another, much less statesman-like side. To his critics, he is "Senor Mas y Mas," Spanish for "Mr. More and More," a vindictive power broker with an explosive temper who uses his ever-increasing influence and wealth to persecute those who disagree him.
"Any person who questions this man and this organization risks his career and his standing in this community," said Xiomara Almaguer, a Cuban-American psychologist who is co-founder of a new group called the Cuban-American Defense League.
 
Feud With Newspaper
 Executives at The Miami Herald, with which Mr. Mas has a long feud, say, for instance, that he recently told them he hired a detective to investigate them, because he was apprehensive about an article the newspaper was preparing.
CANF, as the group is known, has also said it will press libel charges against the authors of a Public Broadcasting Service documentary and a study by the human-rights group Americas Watch, both of which raise questions about Mr. Mas and his activities.
And in an incident that quickly became part of Miami's folklore, Mr. Mas once challenged a Dade County commissioner, Joe Carrollo, to a duel. Mr. Carrollo's offense had been to torpedo a $130 million real estate deal in which Mr. Mas and some prominent Republicans were partners.
"I am going to prove to the Cubans that you are a clown and a coward," Mr. Mas vowed during a radio broadcast. "Your bullying in Miami has ended because you have met a man with a capital M, a very big M." Mr. Carrollo defused the situation by picking water pistols.
 
Criticism About Zeal
 Mr. Mas's critics here and in Washington say that in his zeal to bring about Mr. Castro's downfall, he is forcing the United States into a restrictive policy just when flexibility is required. Many of these critics, who include former directors of the foundation, also question whether Mr. Mas's efforts are intended to benefit Cubans or to carve out a political and economic role for himself.
In many respects, Mr. Mas, who declined to be interviewed for this article, exemplifies the classic American immigrant success story. The son of a Cuban Army veterinarian, he arrived here 32 years ago as a penniless refugee and worked as a stevedore, shoe salesman and milkman before buying a struggling construction business and accumulating a fortune he has estimated at more than $9 million.
Today, Mr. Mas and his wife Irma live in a $700,000 house in the same Miami suburb as Jeb Bush, a son of the President and one of Mr. Mas's political allies. Mr. Mas's construction company, Church & Tower, has contracts with Southern Bell and Dade County, and Mr. Mas is often seen at sports and charity events in the company of the city's political and business elite.
 
More Cuban Than American
 But by his own admission, Mr. Mas, who is 53 years old, regards himself as more Cuban than American at heart and prefers to do things in what he regards as the proper Cuban way. He is familiar with the subtleties of politics in Washington, but he shows even more gusto for the personal attacks, vendettas and general fractiousness long associated with Caribbean politics.
"It is important to remember that the leaders of the Cuban-American community participate in American politics but are not of American politics," said Congressman Robert Torricelli, the New Jersey Democrat who sponsored the Cuban Democracy Act. "They are fighting for a revolution to reclaim their country, so both their tactics and their style can appear to be out of balance with American politics."
The hard line Mr. Mas takes toward the Castro regime is encoded in the Cuban Democracy Act, which extends the United States economic embargo that began when the Cuban leader took power 32 years ago and which imposes penalties on foreign subsidiaries of American companies trading with Cuba. After Mr. Castro's fall, a decision to end the embargo and to grant aid to any successor government would be conditioned on holding free and democratic multiparty elections.
Those issues are very much of concern to Mr. Mas these days. The Cuban American National Foundation has already drawn up a new constitution and an economic recovery plan for Cuba, and some of his followers have begun greeting him as "Senor Presidente" as he strolls the Cuban-American neighborhood Little Havana.
In public, Mr. Mas has always danced away from suggestions that he has any ambition to succeed Mr. Castro, offering only ambiguous replies to questions about his role in a post-Communist Cuba. But privately, according to people who know him well, he has been much less coy.
Indeed, opponents of the Cuban Democracy Act argue that it advances Mr. Mas's dream more than the interests of the United States. Whatever its merits, the legislation is testimony to the clout that Mr. Mas and the foundation wield in Washington. Since the founding of the group, its directors and the political action committee they control, the Free Cuba PAC Inc., have donated more than $1 million directly to candidates for the Presidency, Senate and House and helped to raise even more through their sponsorship of fund-raising dinners.
 
Single-Minded Standard
 "Our philosophy is that we contribute to those who are friends of the Cuban cause and to those who are opposing enemies of the Cuban cause," Francisco J. Hernandez, the foundation's president, said. "We do not care if they are Democrats or Republicans, liberals or conservatives."
Over 12 years, Mr. Mas has contributed $216,000 to national political candidates, more than any other Hispanic individual in the United States, according to a recent study conducted by Hispanic Business magazine. He is also among the most familiar presences on Capitol Hill, testifying before Congressional committees and dropping in at the offices of members of Congress.
 
Foundation Expands Turf
 Mr. Mas attained that influence as head of the foundation, which is mainly a lobbying group but which has expanded its activity in recent years. Mr. Mas is now head of the Presidential Advisory Board on Cuba Broadcasting, which oversees Radio and Television Marti. The two outlets are branches of the United States Information Agency that provide Cuba's 11 million people with programming intended to challenge Mr. Castro's monopoly on information, and both have covered Mr. Mas's activities extensively.
The foundation also runs a resettlement program for Cuban refugees in a highly unusual arrangement that includes Federal support and financing. In addition, it has served as a conduit for more than $780,000 in grants from the National Endowment for Democracy to Cuban human-rights groups allied to the foundation.
Both the refugee program and Mr. Mas's involvement in Radio and Television Marti are cited by his critics as examples of a conflict of interest and of unwarranted government favoritism. "Who ever heard of a political party, which is what the Foundation really is, being allowed to run a refugee program?" asked Ramon Cernuda, a Miami publisher who is the American representative of several Cuban dissident groups. "How many hats can they wear?"
If in Washington Mr. Mas is the amiable but persistent lobbyist, in Miami he prefers to act the part of the caudillo, the traditional Latin American strongman who brooks no opposition.
"The man has become a Godfather," Mr. Cernuda said. "You need his blessing to get things done, because he has built a power machine."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jorge Mas Canosa has become one of the most effective power brokers in Washington for his cause, the fall of the Castro regime. He spoke on Friday in Miami before President Bush signed the Cuban Democracy Act. The new law is one of Mr. Mas's triumphs. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CUBA (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CUBAN AMERICAN NATIONAL FOUNDATION PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (60%); BILL CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CUBAN AMERICAN NATIONAL FOUNDATION BILL CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CUBA UNITED STATES (96%); CUBA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CUBAN-AMERICANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (88%); LEGISLATION (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (70%); WRITERS (63%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (62%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (62%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (62%); LIBEL & SLANDER (60%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (60%); CITIZENSHIP (55%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; MAS CANOSA, JORGE; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (90%); FIDEL CASTRO (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



982 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: GOVERNORS REPORT GRIM FISCAL STATUS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 28

 BODY:
Despite three years of budget cuts and tax increases, states' finances are still in turmoil as a result of the nation's weak economy, the National Governors' Association said today.
"States are under phenomenal fiscal pressure," said Raymond C. Scheppach, executive director of the association. 
 At the end of the fiscal year 1992, states together had an estimated surplus of $825 million, representing three-tenths of 1 percent of total state spending, the governors reported.
The year-end balance, as a proportion of state spending, is an important indicator of states' economic health, and it is now at the lowest level in at least 15 years. Even at the depth of the 1982-83 recession, surpluses exceeded the amounts states now have on hand or expect to have at the end of 1993, the governors' association said in its semiannual "Fiscal Survey of States."
 
Economic Growth Vital
 State officials say that the health of the national economy is far more important than any Federal aid program in determining the condition of state finances. Economic growth leads to increases in personal and corporate income, consumer spending and state revenue.
Total state spending rose 5.1 percent in the fiscal year 1992, and is expected to increase just 2.4 percent in 1993. That is far below the average increase of 8 percent a year in the 1980's.
"Even if we get an economic recovery, the states' financial situation will not improve dramatically," said Mr. Scheppach. With prison overcrowding and soaring Medicaid costs, demands on state treasuries are increasing. But state revenue as a share of state output is declining. States often tax service industries less heavily than manufacturing, and the service industries account for most of the nation's economic growth, Mr. Scheppach said.
Medicaid, the Federal-state health care program for low-income people, now accounts for 15 percent of the states' spending and will account for 28 percent in 1995, the governors estimate. Medicaid is the most rapidly growing item in most state budgets.
 
29 States Raising Taxes
 The sluggish economy continues to plague state revenue collections. Thirty-one states report that their collections for the fiscal year 1992 fell short of the estimates used in preparing the year's budget. Twenty-nine states have raised taxes for 1993.
The Federal fiscal year ends on Sept. 30. In most states, the fiscal year ends on June 30.
The Bush Administration reported today that the Federal budget deficit set a record, $290.2 billion in the fiscal year 1992, which ended four weeks ago. Most states must balance their budgets, but the Federal Government spent $5 for every $4 it collected in revenue. Federal spending totaled $1,381.9 billion in 1992. Total receipts were $1,091.7 billion.
Federal spending grew faster than the economy. Outlays by the Federal Government were equivalent to 23.6 percent of the gross domestic product in the last fiscal year, the highest proportion since 1985. The Federal budget deficit was equivalent to 4.9 percent of the gross domestic product, the highest level since 1986.
 
Reason for Lower Deficit
 The deficit in 1992 was far below the $399 billion estimated by President Bush last January. The Treasury Department said most of the discrepancy occurred because Congress did not provide as much money as Mr. Bush wanted to protect depositors at insolvent savings and loan associations. The money needed to meet those commitments will increase Federal spending and the budget deficit in the future, Administration officials said.
The Federal data confirm the governors' observations about the growth of Medicaid. Federal spending for Medicaid rose 28 percent in 1991, to $52.5 billion, then rose 29 percent in 1992, to $67.8 billion. State spending for Medicaid has increased at a similar pace.
To control other outlays, state officials have adopted various techniques: eliminating programs, consolidating agencies, freezing spending or hiring, delaying payments. But these techniques generally do not produce enough savings to balance state budgets, so governors must search for ways of permanently reducing state obligations, Mr. Scheppach said.
For example, he said, 11 states cut or eliminated benefits under a state welfare program known as general assistance.
 
State Payrolls Down 2%
 Many states are also cutting their payrolls. The number of full-time state employees, 2.3 million, will decline nearly 2 percent by the end of 1993, the governors' association said. New Jersey, Michigan and Massachusetts have "the most significant declines" in state employment, it said. Twenty-one states reported that the number of state jobs would decline from 1991 to 1993.
About one-third of the states are giving no pay increases to their employees in 1993. Eighteen states have changed employee benefits, often shifting costs for health insurance to state workers.
With revenue falling short of projections, 35 states cut overall spending below the levels initially approved in their 1992 budgets. Such cuts are sometimes made unilaterally by the governors. In other cases, a special session of the state legislature is required.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSN NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (65%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (84%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSN NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (84%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STATES (US) GOVERNORS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MEDICAID (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); TAX LAW (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); EXECUTIVES (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); HEALTH CARE (62%); NATIONAL DEBT (60%); PRISONS (50%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT RAYMOND C SCHEPPACH (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



983 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: SENECA JOURNAL;
Sovereignty And Casino Beckon To a Tribe

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: IRVING N.Y.

 BODY:
AT one entrance to the Cattaraugus Indian Reservation, someone has covered the green highway sign with a banner proclaiming: "Aboriginal Seneka Territory."
At the opposite end, outside the Seneca Hawk truck stop, another sign advertises "Goulash" and urges "Vote for Barry Nov. 3."
The balance between cultural and economic survival can be an awkward one on this Seneca Indian reservation, particularly at election time. Members of the legally sovereign Seneca Nation will vote on Tuesday to fill 37 offices, including president, clerk and half the 16-member Tribal Council. 
 The three presidential candidates promise economic development while defending the tribe against an ever-encroaching white world. They vow to keep state tax collectors away from Indian businesses selling gasoline and cigarettes to outsiders on the Senecas' Cattaraugus and Allegany reservations, the two largest in the state.
But none of the candidates will speak in more than general terms about casino gambling, an issue that some believe is the most crucial one facing the 6,350 members of the tribe, nearly half of whom live outside the reservations in western New York and northwestern Pennsylvania.
 
Vote-Buying Outlawed
 Complicating things is a political tradition that would make Boss Tweed proud. This election will be the first in generations where vote-buying will be illegal, though it is uncertain that the law, which was passed by the Tribal Council in August, will be enforced.
"They don't come up to you and say they're buying the vote," said Barry J. White, a Seneca who lectures in the Native American studies program at the State University at Buffalo. "They say, 'Go over to this place; there's food and refreshments there.' Then party workers will solicit you."
Many Senecas say that when their ancestors formed an elected government in the 1840's, they simply did too good a job of copying the American political system. And even opponents of vote-buying are uncomfortable with public criticism.
"What I don't want to see is the impression that the Seneca Nation doesn't know how to operate and is corrupt," Mr. White said.
Nevertheless, one of the three presidential candidates, J. C. Seneca, is making election reform an issue. Another candidate, Emery H. Williams, said he would abide by the new law. The third candidate, Barry Snyder Sr., takes no position on the new law.
"The election's not here yet," he said. "So I don't know what's going to happen this time."
 
'They're All Crooked'
 With crucial issues facing them, many Senecas have become cynical about their politicians.
"They're all crooked," said Janice E. Skutt, 34 years old, who was shopping on Saturday at the Wolf's Run gasoline station and convenience store on the Cattaraugus reservation. She said she took $100 for her vote a couple of elections ago. "After I was paid, I said, 'I just sold myself for $100,' " she recalled.
Mrs. Skutt said she feared losing her cleaning job at the Seneca health clinic for publicly criticizing the tribal government, but she said she felt strongly about problems on the reservation that needed more attention.
According to the 1990 Census, the reservation poverty rate is more than 27 percent. The rate for Cattaraugus County, which borders the Seneca lands, is 8.6 percent. Unemployment is chronically high, nearly triple the Cattaraugus County rate, according to the Census.
The candidates are well aware of the discontent.
"Why don't we smile anymore?" Mr. Snyder asked at a campaign forum last week. "We are a proud nation."
Mr. Snyder, 52, wants to see more Indian businesses on the reservations.
 
Issue of Taxes
 The reservations are already galvanized by the issue, following a July court ruling that the state may collect sales and excise taxes on fuel and tobacco sold by Senecas to non-Indians. For several days, angry Senecas confronted the state police and temporarily shut down the Gov. Thomas E. Dewey Thruway and Route 17 on the reservations. The State Court of Appeals is expected to decide soon whether it will hear the case.
"The ripple effect of this election will mean whether we have casino gambling," Mr. White said.
The candidates decline to discuss the issue in detail, saying there are no formal proposals on the table. But Mr. Snyder and Mr. Seneca refuse to rule it out, and while Mr. Williams's party is against it, he said he did not feel strongly either way.
Mr. White agrees that the Seneca reservations need to focus on economic development, but he said gambling could further threaten Seneca culture.
"We're in a transition very much like we were when we started fur trading with the Europeans," he said. "It's a whole new level of thinking, a whole new level of economics. And people are hungry for that. That's why I would rather have them think deeper about the implications of economic development."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Many on the Cattaraugus Indian Reservation think the Seneca Nation did too good of a job copying the American political system when it set up an elected government in the 1840's. Corruption is a main issue in the campaign. Barry Snyder Sr., center, is one of the three candidates running for president. (Mickey Osterreicher for The New York Times)
 
Map of New York showing locations of Cattaraugus Indian Reservation and Allegany Indian Reservation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CATTARAUGUS INDIAN RESERVATION (NYS) UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INDIANS, AMERICAN; SENECA NATION OF INDIANS; ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS VOTERS & VOTING (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); GAMING (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTION FRAUD (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (87%); GAS STATIONS (78%); CASINOS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTION LAW (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ETHICS (72%); CORRUPTION (70%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (64%); CONVENIENCE STORES (63%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



984 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: Battle for Senate Is Feeling Impact of Presidential Race

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
Prospects for a Clinton landslide in New York have helped unite typically fractious Democrats, who are working for the kind of big margin that would send Republican Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato back to Long Island and many of them to Washington.
Their coordinated campaign, which is culminating in a 100,000-phone-calls-a-night blitz, is aimed in particular at fighting complacency and luring those Democrats who have long supported Mr. D'Amato over to back his opponent in the Senate race, State Attorney General Robert Abrams. 
 Given the projected margins in the Presidential race, Republicans are becoming increasingly preoccupied with preserving their State Senate majority and in protecting the United States Senate seat that the party has held for nearly a half-century.
 
'The $64,000 Question'
 The chief imponderable of the campaign appears to be not whether Gov. Bill Clinton will carry New York, but by how much. Will his shirttails be long enough for other Democratic challengers -- especially Mr. Abrams -- to get a grip? "That's the $64,000 question," said Tony Marsh, Mr. D'Amato's media adviser.
The Democrats say they are telephoning as many as 100,000 prospective voters a night to promote the Democratic ticket, usually mentioning the party's candidates for President and Vice President, Mr. Abrams and local candidates by name. John A. Marino, the Democratic state chairman, who is heading the Democrats' coordinated campaign for the national ticket and for state and local offices, said volunteers calling from thousands of phones across the state expect to reach 4 million New Yorkers in all -- 2 million of them during the four days starting Saturday.
Republicans, maintaining that President Bush remains a "viable" candidate, said they mailed out a million forms to reach potential absentee voters. Also, Republican workers are phoning tens of thousands of prospective voters, but not as many as the Democrats.
Regardless of whether Mr. Clinton redeems his remark that Gov. Mario M. Cuomo would make a good Supreme Court justice, other New Yorkers working in the Clinton campaign are in line to go to Washington if he is elected.
 
Shifted to Washington
 Right after the Democratic National Convention, Harold M. Ickes, the lawyer who engineered Mr. Clinton's victory in the New York Presidential primary last April, shifted to Washington as deputy chairman of the Democratic National Committee.
Deborah Sale, an Arkansas native who was chief of staff to Lieut. Gov. Stan Lundine of New York, is working out of the national campaign headquarters in Little Rock. So is Susan Thomases, a New York lawyer who is the campaign scheduling director, and Maria Echaveste and Karen Adler, two New Yorkers who served as liaisons to Hispanic and Jewish voters during the primary and are now performing similar roles in the national campaign. Ms. Echaveste is a former chairwoman of the New York City Board of Elections.
A number of New Yorkers who have been campaign economic advisers, fund-raisers or both -- among them three investment bankers, Roger Altman, vice chairman of the Blackstone Group; Felix G. Rohatyn of Lazard Freres, and Robert Rubin of Goldman, Sachs -- are also seen as candidates for major economic posts.
Geraldine A. Ferraro, the former Congresswoman from Queens who has been campaigning vigorously for the Clinton-Gore ticket since she lost the Democratic primary for United States Senate, has said she would not seek elective office again but expressed interest in an appointive post.
 
Contributions to Campaign
 Sarah Kovner, a veteran of Democratic politics, and Paul Carey, son of former Gov. Hugh L. Carey, have been with Mr. Clinton from the beginning. Others singled out by Kevin L. Thurm, the Clinton campaign director in New York, for their contributions to the campaign include Hulbert H. James, a veteran of political campaigns and voter registration drives, who has been Mayor David N. Dinkins's director of African-American-Caribbean affairs; Joseph Ithier, chief of staff to Borough President Fernando Ferrer of the Bronx; Carol Hamilton, the Clinton campaign press secretary in New York, and Bruce Nyman, the Supervisor for Long Beach, L.I.
Two signals suggest that an upset is not anticipated: New York has barely been on either candidate's itinerary this fall; also, neither campaign is investing heavily in television advertising in New York and most of what is being spent in New York is aimed at viewers in the overlapping New Jersey media market. Most national campaign money allocated to New York is funneled through Mr. Marino's operation.
New York Republicans are stoically plumping for Mr. Bush despite his slump in the polls. This week, Jonathan Bush, the President's brother, stumped in several cities upstate. "I would like to see the poll numbers a little bit different," William D. Powers, the Republican state chairman, said, "but we still think it's viable."
 
Only One Element
 But the Presidential campaign is only one element in a strategy that includes galvanizing Republicans for the high-stakes 1994 gubernatorial campaign, which could revive the sagging fortunes of a state party that last elected a governor in 1970.
The Bush campaign in New York is largely being run by Mr. Powers and by Thomas F. Doherty, a Westchester County employee and Tuckahoe village board member. The state campaign chairman is former State Senator H. Douglas Barclay.
Republican officials say they mailed a million applications for absentee ballots to party members along with the slate of candidates from President on down. Mr. Powers and Mr. Doherty said only one candidate did not want his name included, Representative Bill Green, whose reconfigured district spreads from Manhattan's East Side into Brooklyn and Queens and includes more Democrats than Republicans.
After the election, Mr. Marino's deputy, Bill Lynch, a former deputy mayor to Mayor Dinkins, is expected to become Mr. Dinkins's campaign manager -- a job in which having a direct pipeline to the White House can be a considerable political plus.
Mr. Lynch was responsible for coordinating a registration drive that enrolled record numbers of new voters and that in Nassau County signed up more new Democratic voters than Republicans -- perhaps for the first time in a bastion of suburban Republicanism. Now, Mr. Lynch's job is to generate a large turnout to make the state safe for Mr. Clinton.
"We're trying to make it a sweep," he said.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "POLITICS: On Clinton's New York Campaign Team"
 
HAROLD M. ICKES
 
Son of Franklin D. Roosevelt's Interior Secretary, Mr. Ickes is a 52-year-old labor lawyer who has been active in Democratic campaigns in New York for decades --fighting the good fight but not accustomed to winning. Modest, volatile, tireless and a tough negotiator, he has known Mr. Clinton for 20 years since the anti-war movement and was recruited last year to manage the New York campaign. He also managed the national convention for Mr. Clinton and emerged, as the candidate's man in New York.
 
JOHN A. MARINO
 
Installed by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo as Democratic State Chairman, Mr. Marino was the state's regional transportation director for New York CIty before shifting to full-time political posts. Mr. Marino, who is 44 years old, is intensely loyal to Mr. Cuomo. Last year, he helped prepare the foundation for a Cuomo presidential campaign that never materialized, but rebounded to run the coordinated campaign on behalf of the national ticket and state and local candidates.
 
KEVIN L. THURM
 
Mr. Thurm, an affable 31-year-old lawyer, and George Stephanopoulos, the Clinton campaign's national communications director, were fellow Rhodes scholars. He has worked in other campaigns, but never directed one state-wide, as he is doing now in New York since he was enlisted by Mr. Stephanopoulos a year ago. He practices constitutional and commercial law between campaigns, but has been working full-time for Mr. Clinton all year. He paused only briefly when, four days after the Democratic national convention, his wife gave birth to a son.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; SENATE (US) DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); NEW YORK CITY BOARD (96%); STATE SENATE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; SENATE (US) NEW YORK CITY BOARD (96%); STATE SENATE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LAWYERS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (77%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (61%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: ROBERTS, SAM; D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN); ABRAMS, ROBERT (ATTY GEN); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



985 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: A New House District Could Make History

BYLINE: By EVELYN NIEVES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNION CITY, N.J., Oct. 28

 BODY:
The new 13th Congressional District here may very well enter the history books on Tuesday as the first in New Jersey to send a Hispanic-American representative to Washington.
The Democrat on the ticket, in a district where registered Democrats outnumber Republicans by as much as six to one, is already the subject of talk about the influence that he would carry as one of the few Hispanic-Americans in the national political arena at a time when they represent the nation's fastest-growing ethnic group. 
 Even before he announced he would run, Robert Menendez, a Cuban-American who is a State Senator as well as Union City's Mayor, was considered by his party as the natural heir to the retiring seven-term incumbent, Frank Guarini.
Still, both Mr. Menendez and his Republican opponent, Fred J. Theemling Jr., a Hudson County lawyer who has never held elective office, are loath to say the election is a foregone conclusion.
Although he captured 68 percent of the vote in the Democratic primary, Mr. Menendez has been careful not to take the numbers for granted, even in a district that cuts a swath through four counties in areas that have traditionally been Democratic turf: Essex, Union, Hudson and Middlesex. In an interview, he pointed out that while the district's population is 43 percent Hispanic, Hispanic residents represent only slightly more than 20 percent of the registered voters. And while he is serving his second term as the popular Mayor of New Jersey's most densely populated city, he believes he is still an unknown quantity in parts of the new district.
 
'Make Up Their Own Minds'
 "I hate when people say that of course I'm going to win big," Mr. Menendez said. "Voters make up their own minds."
The district, which was drawn after New Jersey lost one House seat as a result of the 1990 Census, was created to increase Hispanic representation. It snakes from the northern tip of North Bergen in Hudson County, covers parts of New Jersey's largest cities, including one-third of Newark and more than half of Jersey City, and reaches to Perth Amboy in Middlesex County.
Mr. Menendez, whose campaign is aimed at appealing to blue-collar and middle-class concerns like jobs and health care costs, has campaigned since the primary with the anxious energy of an underdog, putting in 18-hour days to reach voters in areas where he believes his name carries little cachet. Before it is all over, he expects to have spent about $200,000 on the campaign. That is half what he spent on the primary but still far more than his opponent, who will spend about $11,000.
 
Blaming the Legislature
 Despite his tiny treasury, Mr. Theemling, born in Texas and raised in Hudson County, said he believed he still had a chance. He has already lost two campaigns, to Mr. Guarini in 1988 and 1990, getting about 31 percent of the vote in each race. But the 48-year-old candidate, a former assistant Hudson County prosecutor, said things might be different this time because Mr. Menendez is a member of the State Legislature, which many voters hold responsible for the state's ailing economy.
"Everyone I speak to -- Republican, Independent and Democrat -- is blaming the State Legislature for playing politics with our lives," he said. "Bob Menendez has been a State Senator and Assembly member. There is an anti-incumbency feeling out there and Bob is as good as the incumbent in this race."
But Mr. Menendez could hardly be called a Washington insider. While his political resume stretches back 18 years, when he was elected to the Union City School Board at age 20, his first entry into statewide politics came in 1987, when he was elected to the Assembly. He was in his second term in the Assembly when he was appointed to fill a vacant seat in the Senate in March 1991 and elected to the Senate last November.
Born in New York City, he was raised in Hudson County by parents who emigrated first to Puerto Rico, then to the United States, before Fidel Castro's rise to power. Many of his relatives remained in Cuba.
Mr. Menendez, like virtually everyone seeking office these days, bristles at the label of "insider." But he is part of Hudson County's powerful Democratic establishment. And his political allies outside the area include Jorge Mas Canosa, a Miami millionaire who heads one of the most powerful lobbying groups in the country, the Cuban American National Foundation. Mr. Mas Canosa's organization, which is devoted to devising a capitalistic plan for a post-Castro Cuba, is one of Mr. Menendez's largest campaign contributors.
 
Menendez and Clinton
 Three weekly Spanish-language newspapers in Hudson County have embraced Mr. Menendez's Congressional race, emphasizing his importance to the area's Spanish-speakers. The district's Spanish-speaking immigrants come from 21 different countries, but Mr. Menendez's base of support comes from Cuban-Americans, who number about 44,000. He is so popular with Cuban voters, who traditionally vote Republican, that Mr. Menendez voices cautious hope that he will be able to deliver their votes to the Democratic Presidential ticket.
"I've never had a Democrat to work with the way I do with Governor Clinton," he said. For instance, he said, Bill Clinton spoke out before President Bush did in support of a bill sponsored by the Ninth District's Democratic Congressman, Robert G. Torricelli, that would, among other things, tighten an embargo against Cuba.
"In fact, Clinton forced Bush's hand by doing so," Mr. Menendez said. "And he is not seen as a traditional liberal by a lot of the Republicans, which is a plus."
But Mr. Theemling, who says he has received enthusiastic receptions in the district's Spanish-speaking communities, said he did not think Hispanic voters would automatically pull the Democratic lever in the voting booth.
Like Mr. Menendez, he has endorsed Mr. Torricelli's bill, and like Mr. Menendez, his campaign speeches focus on creating jobs and bolstering the economy. Mr. Theemling's ideas include urban enterprise zones and tax credits to corporations for each new employee as well as increasing taxes on corporations that lay off workers to help profits. Mr. Menendez has focused on tax incentives in areas of high unemployment for new businesses and for research and development, as well as improved job training programs.
Mr. Theemling also favors President Bush's school choice plan, which would give parents the choice of sending their child to private or public school.
"I think it's a Hispanic issue because immigrants who come here often send their children to parochial schools and are often interested in attending schools with job programs that will get them out into the work force as fast as possible," he said.
Mr. Menendez, whose son and daughter, ages 7 and 9, attend public schools, has taken pains to emphasize an agenda that he says encompasses the concerns of everyone in the district.
"It is true that while becoming the first Hispanic-American member of Congress from the state would put a spotlight on my concerns for this particular group, it is the same as being the first Hispanic Senator in the State Legislature or the only Hispanic State Assemblyman," he said. "There are concerns we have that benefit all groups."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In New Jersey's 13th Congressional District -- where registered Democrats outnumber Republicans by as much as six to one -- State Senator Robert Menendez, who is also Mayor of Union City, isn't taking anything for granted. "I hate when people say that of course I'm going to win big." (Dith Pran/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "NEW JERSEY: 13th Congressional District"
 
POPULATION
Total: 600,000
 
Other: 5%
Hispanic: 41%
Black: 14%
White: 40%
 
MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME
In 1989.
 
District 13: $31,000
New Jersey: $40,927
 
PUBLIC ASSISTANCE
 
Those with public assistance income.
 
Dist. 13: 9.7%
N.J.: 5.7%
 
NONCITIZENS
 
Dist. 13: 17.8%
N.J.: 6.4%
 
EDUCATION
Those over 254 with a high school diploma.
 
Dist 13: 63%
N.J.State: 77%
 
(Sources: 1990 Census, New Jersey Redistricting Commission)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY MIDDLESEX COUNTY UTILITIES AUTHORITY (52%); UNION CITY SCHOOL BOARD (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY UNION CITY SCHOOL BOARD (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); CUBAN-AMERICANS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POPULATION DENSITY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLITICS (76%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); CITY LIFE (74%); MAYORS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); ETHNICITY (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); CENSUS (67%); 

PERSON: NIEVES, EVELYN; MENENDEZ, ROBERT (SEN); THEEMLING, FRED J JR BOB MENENDEZ (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



986 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 321 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN;
Democrats: Alarming Words for the Elderly

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE

 BODY:
The Democratic National Committee yesterday began broadcasting two 30-second commercials, one on Medicare and one on "tough times" for middle-class families. Because they are paid for by the Democratic Party, these advertisements do not mention any candidates by name.
 
ON THE SCREEN: Opens with these words in white on black background: "Before you vote, remember the record," in white on black background, followed by a series of black and white photographs of elderly people. Closes with "The New Democrats. Social Security. Quality Affordable Health Care."
 
SCRIPT: Narrator: "Before you vote, remember the record. Every year for the past 12 years, the Republicans tried to cut Medicare. And in nine of those years they've done it. And this year, they've proposed a plan that could lower benefits for nearly 30 million older Americans and virtually eliminate compensation for over one million disabled veterans. Medicare cuts. Health-care crisis. The worst economic record since the Great Depression. Senior citizens know better than anyone, it's time for a change. And that's what the new Democrats are fighting for. Social security and quality health care."
 
ACCURACY: Republicans have for 12 years said they wanted to cut the rate of growth in Medicare, but not actually reduce the benefits. There have been Republican efforts to cut payments to doctors and hospitals, though not beneficiaries. It is true that the economy has grown more slowly during Bush's Presidency than in any other four-year term since Herbert Hoover's. But the recession in the early 1980's was much more severe than the one during the Bush years.
 
SCORECARD: This ad features a familiar scare tactic of the Democrats: playing up to senior citizens' fears that their Social Security will be cut. It has long been a sure-fire issue for the Democrats, though it is doubtful that Congress would ever approve a cut in entitlements.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (94%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (91%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (91%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; POLITICAL ADVERTISING POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); AGING (91%); SENIOR CITIZENS (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MEDICARE (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); FAMILY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



987 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 190 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Anheuser's Earnings Rise 8.5%

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS, Oct. 28

 BODY:
The Anheuser-Busch Companies reported an 8.5 percent increase in earnings for the third quarter today, citing higher profitability in the beer and entertainment businesses and lower financing costs.
The company said earnings for the quarter were $318 million, or $1.11 a share, up from $293 million, or $1.01 a share, a year ago. Sales for the quarter rose 4.4 percent to $3.54 billion from $3.39 billion a year ago. 
 The stock closed today on the New York Stock Exchange at $54.625, up $1.
The company said sales to wholesalers were a record 23.2 million barrels during the quarter, up from 23.1 million barrels last year.
Beer Institute figures showed that Anheuser-Busch beer volume sales accounted for about 44 percent of all brewing industry sales, including imports.
"Anheuser-Busch's gains, built from the largest volume base in the industry, have come despite the lingering effect of the 1991 Federal excise tax increase, the second-coldest summer in two decades and continued weak economic conditions in key selling areas, such as the Northeast and California," said August A. Busch 3d, president and board chairman.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BUD (PAR) (97%); BUD (NYSE) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (97%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (97%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: ANHEUSER-BUSCH COMPANIES INC ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (97%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ANHEUSER-BUSCH COMPANIES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (50%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); EXCISE TAX (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); 

PERSON: AUGUST A BUSCH III (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



988 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: Ford Registers a Loss for the Third Quarter

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 28

 BODY:
The Ford Motor Company, hurt by weak automotive volume in North America and Britain, reported today that it lost $158.9 million in the third quarter, narrowing from a loss of $574.4 million in same 1991 period.
Harold A. Poling, chairman and chief executive, singled out "instability in European currency markets" that "has led to lower sales in most of Ford's European markets, and will continue to affect the operating environment for the near term." 
 Ford had said losses could continue in the fourth quarter if the economy does not strengthen. In a prepared statement, Mr. Poling said the rest of the year and all of 1993 would be "challenging."
 
 
Stock Advances
 In trading today on the New York Stock Exchange, Ford's share price dropped $1.75, to $38.125.
Last week the Chrysler Corporation posted a $182 million third-quarter profit; the General Motors Corporation is expected to announce a third-quarter loss of up to $850 million Thursday morning.
David McCammon, Ford's vice president for finance, extended a compliment to Chrysler: "I have to give them a lot of credit. They had a better production situation in trucks than we did during the quarter."
Mr. McCammon, though declining to predict automotive sales for next year, said Ford was looking for steady but slow economic growth, reaching the 3.5 percent level next year. He conceded that Ford may be benefiting slightly from consumer unease over the corporate upheaval at G.M.
Ford's revenue for the quarter rose 10.5 percent to $23.33 billion from $21.12 billion.
For the nine months, Ford earned $681.4 million, or $1.10 a share, on revenue of $74.73 billion, compared with a loss of $1.78 billion on revenue of $66.3 billion a year earlier.
Ford's results were within the range predicted by most analysts. "If there was a surprise it was that Ford's profit margins in its automotive business deteriorated, principally because of European currency fluctuations and the costs of launching new models," Wendy Needham, automotive analyst for Smith Barney in New York, said. Ford recently introduced the 1993 Ford Probe, Ford Ranger pickup and Mercury Villager mini-van. It plans to introduce the Lincoln Mark VIII on Dec. 26.
Ford's worldwide automotive operations lost $464 million in the quarter, compared with $751 million a year earlier; automotive operations in the United States accounted for $153 million of the loss, compared with $197 million a year earlier.
Incentives to retail buyers averaged $1,050 a vehicle in the third quarter, up from $900 in the second quarter, largely because the third quarter is the "cleanup" quarter for remaining 1992 models.
 
 
Financial Services
 Ford's financial services, with fewer credit losses and better interest margins, posted a record $305 million third-quarter profit, up from $128 million last year.
With a strong balance sheet and a big increase in its American market share, Ford is well positioned for strong earnings if overall automotive demand increases -- unless economic conditions worsen in Britain, analysts say.
Ford's overall share of the car and light-truck market in the United States was 24.5 percent for the first nine months of the year, a level not reached since 1989. It compares with a 20.3 percent share a decade ago. A percentage point of market share is equal to sales of 130,000 to 150,000 vehicles, depending on the size of the market.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (98%); F (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (98%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO FORD MOTOR CO (98%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (83%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (69%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (73%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY LOSSES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (62%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P DAVID FORD (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



989 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Carrying Sushi to Osaka Proves an Unpopular Plan

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 28

 BODY:
A widely publicized plan by a Japanese restaurant chain to import frozen sushi from the United States again faces an uncertain future -- not because of opposition by Japan's Government to rice imports but because of a fight within the company.
Fujio Matsumoto, the president of the Sushi Boy chain, has quit the company, as has Haruhiko Saito, another executive behind the plan to import the sushi. Sushi Boy's remaining management is reviewing whether importing American sushi makes economic sense, said Jun Nakamura, a spokesman for the company. 
 The Osaka-based chain's plan drew international attention because it tested the boundaries of Japan's ban on imported rice. Earlier this month, however, the Japanese Government decided that sushi, which is a slab of raw fish on top of a chunk of rice, could be allowed in because it is a processed food, not rice itself.
 
Protests and Lawsuits
 Some agricultural groups have protested the plan and right-wing groups have hurled insults at the restaurants from loudspeaker trucks, Mr. Nakamura said.
He added that even before the sushi plan came to the public's attention, Mr. Matsumoto had a falling-out with three other large shareholders. In August, the company, apparently acting on orders from the three shareholders, filed lawsuits against Mr. Matsumoto and Mr. Saito. Mr. Nakamura said he could not discuss the charges in the suits but said they were not directly related to the import plan.
In addition, Mr. Saito, who owns the factory in Escondido, Calif., in which the sushi was to have been made, is on trial in district court in Kobe on charges he tried to evade duties on beef he imported from the United States.
 
New Company to Pursue Plan
 Mr. Matsumoto, in an interview, said he and Mr. Saito quit because the other shareholders were not enthusiastic about the import plan. He and Mr. Saito have formed a new company, named Rice Power, to import the sushi from the California factory and to distribute it to supermarkets. He characterized the Government charges against Mr. Saito as a mere dispute over the valuation of the imported beef.
As president of Sushi Boy, Mr. Matsumoto said the American sushi would be far less expensive because it could use California rice, which is a fifth or less the cost of Japanese rice, and because the sushi would be mass-produced rather than made by hand.
But Mr. Nakamura of Sushi Boy said the rice constitutes only a small fraction of the cost of the sushi, so using American rice does not cut overall costs much, especially once transportation is figured in. And the savings from mass production can be achieved equally well by using a Japanese factory, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 7901 (JASDAQ) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS323117 BOOKS PRINTING (92%); NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (92%); SIC2759 COMMERCIAL PRINTING, NEC (92%); SIC2754 COMMERCIAL GRAVURE PRINTING (92%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: OSAKA, JAPAN (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: SUSHI BOY (JAPANESE RESTAURANT CHAIN) MATSUMOTO INC (92%); SUSHI BOY (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUSHI BOY (JAPANESE RESTAURANT CHAIN) SUSHI BOY (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); OSAKA, JAPAN (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS RESTAURANTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); BEEF (78%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); IMPORT CONTROLS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW; MATSUMOTO, FUJIO HARUHIKO SAITO (92%); FUJIO MATSUMOTO (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



990 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER RATES;
Tax-Exempt Funds Are Up But Taxable Yields Decline

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Money market fund yields were mixed in the seven-day period ended yesterday, according to IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report survey of more than 862 tax-exempt and taxable funds.
The rise in tax-exempt yields this week, a contrast to last week's drop, came as no surprise to IBC/Donoghue's analysts. They noted that the municipal bond market was stabilizing, since the heavy issuance of debt had abated, allowing investor demand to catch up to supply. The oversupply had exerted upward pressure on yields. 
 Assets of tax-exempt money funds decreased by $137 million for the week, dropping the total assets to $96.8 billion, with the average number of days left to maturity of securities held in fund portfolios down one, to 65, Donoghue's analysts said.
The seven-day average compounded tax-exempt yield rose to 2.18 percent, up from 2.15 percent last week, with the simple yield up a like amount, to 2.16 percent. The 30-day average, which still reflects previous yield declines, is 2.36 percent for the compounded and 2.33 percent for the simple yield, both off 11 basis points. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
Not factoring in state taxes, the data mean that the taxable equivalent of the seven-day compounded yield was about 3.03 percent for investors in the 28 percent tax bracket and about 3.16 percent for investors in the 31 percent tax bracket.
Of the tax-exempt funds surveyed with assets greater than $100 million, IBC/Donoghue's said the Dreyfus Basic Municipal Money Market fund was the best performer with a yield of 2.90 percent.
 
Taxable Yield: 2.78%
 Among taxable money market funds, yields dipped about 5 basis points, while total assets dropped by $2.5 billion, to $491.2 billion. Of that total, institutional money fund assets lost $3.3 billion, to $170.8 billion, while the public funds gained $800 million, to a total of $320.4 billion.
The average seven-day compounded yield for a taxable money market fund was 2.78 percent, down from 2.83 percent last week and the simple yield was off 5 basis points to 2.74 percent. For the 30-day period, the average compounded yield is 2.83 percent and the simple yield is 2.79 percent, both down 3 basis points.
Analysts said the average days left to maturity of securities in portfolios rose by one, to 65, with the Standby Reserve Fund, distributed by Cowen & Company in New York, the top performer among general purpose funds with a yield of 3.78 percent. For government-only funds with assets under $100 million United Services Government Securities Savings fund, distributed by United Services in San Antonio was tops again at 3.97 percent.
Walter S. Frank, chief economist at IBC/Donoghue's, said he did not expect yields to move sharply, because recent economic news had taken the pressure off the Federal Reserve to ease rates over the short term.
Elsewhere, the average yield on a bank money market account fell to 2.79 percent this week, from 2.80 percent last week.


GRAPHIC: Following are average annual effective yields, in percent, on money-market accounts and C.D.'s offered on Oct. 28, 1992 by the 10 largest banks and savings institutions in each of the 10 largest metropolitan areas.

	Money	6-Mo.		Mkt.	C.D.	New York	2.73	2.87	Los Angeles	2.82	2.98	Chicago	2.81	3.07	San Francisco	2.72	2.92	Philadelphia	2.94	2.98	Detroit	2.89	3.04	Boston	2.81	3.01	Houston	2.69	3.05	Dallas	2.65	3.01	Washington	2.85	3.13	Bank Rate Monitor Index*	2.79	3.01	
 
*Annual effective yields offered by 100 large institutions in the 10 largest U.S. markets.
(Source: Bank Rate Monitor, N. Palm Beach, 33408)
 
Graphs: "Consumer Money Rates" tracks Donoghue's Money Fund seven-day compounded average taxable yield and the Bank Rate Monitor national index of money-market accounts since July. (Sources: Bank Rate Monitor, N. Palm Beach, Fla., and IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report, Holliston, Mass); "Maturities" tracks average days to maturity of securities held in money market mutual fund portfolios since November, 1991. (Source: IBC/Donoghue's)
Table: "Regional Bank Rates"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: COWN (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COWEN GROUP INC (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; MONEY MARKET FUNDS MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (93%); MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); BONDS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



991 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Lumber Prices Soar on Talk Of Small Timber Harvest

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Lumber futures rose the daily limit of $5 per thousand board feet yesterday amid speculation of a smaller-than-expected timber harvest.
Logging restrictions in forest lands of the Pacific Northwest and a cutback in production at smaller mills touched off a seasonal price rally for lumber. 
 In other markets, copper, platinum and sugar closed higher, while energy futures settled mixed.
The lumber industry sees the end of October as a seasonal low point for lumber prices, according to Curt Cunningham, president of Pacific Futures Trading in Seattle. In a typical year, a rally begins in late October and extends to February or March.
"I would expect a significantly larger rally this season," said Mr. Cunningham, who added that tight supplies, coupled with strong Japanese demand could possibly extend this rally into April.
On the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, November lumber futures closed on the highs of the day at $225 per thousand board feet, and January lumber ended at $226.60.
 
Strike Threat Stirs Copper Sales
A potential strike by 19,600 union workers at one of the largest copper mines in Chile reignited nervous buying of copper futures on the Commodity Exchange in New York.
December copper settled up 0.70 cent at 101.20 cents a pound, despite a Commerce Department report that orders for durable goods fell four-tenths of 1 percent in September. Copper is a component of many durable goods.
Another important durable good, platinum, closed on a firmer note at the New York Mercantile Exchange. Perceptions that supplies were tightening persisted, prompting the January contract to close with a gain of $2.20 at $356 an ounce.
Indications that thesugar cane crop in South Africa would be smaller than expected because of a drought helped support world sugar prices. March sugar rose 0.17 cent, to 8.81 cents a pound.
December crude oil settled 10 cents higher at $21.12 a barrel on the New York Merc, while November heating oil lost 0.25 cent, to 61.40 cents a gallon, after the American Petroleum Institute reported a 1.76 million increase in barrels in storage. November unleaded fell 0.25 cent, to 59.65 cents a gallon, at the close.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (90%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CHILE (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (76%); 

STATE: WEST USA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (91%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%); NEW YORK, USA (68%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (90%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CHILE (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (76%); WEST USA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (91%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%); NEW YORK, USA (68%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; OPTIONS TRADING; PRICES; WOOD AND WOOD PRODUCTS FUTURES (96%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (94%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (94%); LUMBER & PLYWOOD MARKETS (91%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); PLATINUM MARKETS (90%); COPPER INDUSTRY (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); COPPER MARKETS (90%); SUGAR MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); METALS MARKETS (89%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); SUGAR FARMING (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); BASE METALS MARKETS (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); SAW MILLS (79%); WOOD PRODUCTS MFG (79%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); FOOD PRICES (77%); HEATING OIL (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); STRIKES (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (74%); COPPER MINING (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); DROUGHT (68%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); 

PERSON: CURT CUNNINGHAM (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



992 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Up on Expectations Of Declining Rates Abroad

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar continued its steady advance yesterday, settling higher across the board on world currency markets.
Gold prices settled mostly higher. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current delivery settled at $339.40 an ounce, up $2 from Tuesday. Republic National Bank quoted a late bid for gold of $338.85, up $1.60. 
 Analysts said the dollar continued to test the upward limits of its recent trading range, briefly piercing an important technical barrier against the German mark before retreating and settling firmly above a critical level of 123 Japanese yen.
Concerns that Japanese and some European central banks will be forced to lower interest rates helped the dollar. Lower interest rates abroad make American securities more attractive to investors, increasing their need for dollars.
 
Help From the Bank of England
 The dollar received more help later in the day after Robin Leigh-Pemberton, the governor of the Bank of England, said he did not see inflation building in the British economy. "The prospect is for lower interest rates there," said Randolph Donney, director of research at Pegasus Econometric Group in Hoboken, N.J.
Separately, Mr. Donney said there was little reaction to Government reports showing that factory orders fell in September while personal income rose.
In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 122.05 yen, down 0.23 yen from Tuesday's close. Later in London, the dollar was quoted at 122.55 yen. In New York, the dollar settled at 123.18 yen, up from 122.15 yen.
In London, the British pound fell to $1.5745 from $1.5845 late Tuesday. In New York, it cost $1.5735 to buy one pound, down from Tuesday's $1.5775.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Tuesday's rates included: 1.5455 German marks, up from 1.5285; 1.3745 Swiss francs, up from 1.3595; 5.2470 French francs, up from 5.1860; 1,331.00 Italian lire, up from 1,327.00, and 1.2378 Canadian dollars, up from 1.2361.
Other late dollar rates in Europe, compared with late Tuesday's rates, included: 1.5405 German marks, up from 1.5315; 1.3715 Swiss francs, up from 1.3620; 5.2265 French francs, up from 5.1955; 1.7350 Dutch guilders, up from 1.7255; 1,331.75 Italian lire, up from 1,331.00, and 1.2400 Canadian dollars, up from 1.2381.
Gold rose in London to a late bid of $338.55 an ounce from $338.15 Tuesday.
Silver also gained ground. On the Comex, silver for current delivery settled at $3.757 an ounce, up from $3.739 Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (58%); HSB (PAR) (58%); HBC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (56%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); BANK OF ENGLAND (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES CURRENCIES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); GERMAN MARK (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); BRITISH POUND (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (66%); FACTORY ORDERS (51%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (51%); 

PERSON: RANDOLPH DONNEY (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



993 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Water, Water Everywhere . . .

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
A GLANCE at the big water projects bill on President Bush's desk might leave the impression of pork as usual: choice morsels include everything from $20 million to clean up an abandoned mine in Leadville, Colo., to an $85 million write-off for aqueducts to green the lawns of Phoenix.
But this is no ordinary exercise in pre-election benevolence. For the centerpiece of the legislation is a radical change in the way subsidized Federal water would be distributed to Californians -- one that would put the environment's interests ahead of agriculture, while creating a free market for water that would almost inevitably mean a lot more for parched cities and a little less for irrigation. 
 A Presidential signature on the bill would infuriate California farmers, who talk loudly and carry big wallets. Vetoing it, however, or letting it die this Saturday, would undermine candidate Bush's popularity in must-win Western states.
A veto, moreover, would dismay the pragmatic environmentalists who have been the President's sometime allies. "This is as close to free market environmentalism as one can expect in the real world," said Tom Graff, senior attorney for the Environmental Defense Fund.
One-fifth of the water used by Californians is drawn from the north and stored in a giant plumbing system built by Uncle Sam in the 1940's. And virtually all of it is used to make the desert bloom with everything from cotton to kiwis.
The catch -- well, one catch -- is that the farmers are charged just a fraction of the cost of this Central Valley Project. Bill Bradley of New Jersey, a leading Senate critic of the arrangement, estimates that Washington picks up 95 percent of the tab in the most generous of the water contracts.
For decades, opponents of the water subsidies, mostly urban Democrats, were brushed aside by politically savvy farmers. But rapidly growing cities have increasingly been puckered by periodic droughts. And environmentalists have increasingly become aware that water diverted to farms means double trouble, disrupting rivers that shelter wildlife and leaching chemicals into delicate ecologies.
Economists added fuel to their ire, pointing out that subsidies discouraged water-saving irrigation, while encouraging the cultivation of low-value grasses for cattle food along with what the Economist magazine once called "monsoon crops."
The Environmental Defense Fund has brokered deals in which urbanites paid for agricultural conservation and split the benefits with the farmers. But to the surprise of almost everyone, the breakthrough came in Congress.
Led by Senator Bradley and by Representative George Miller, a senior California Democrat with a suburban Bay Area constituency, Congress linked coveted Western water projects to changes in Central Valley pricing and allocation. Under the bill, the first 800,000 acre-feet -- roughly the amount consumed by a million suburban families -- would be dedicated to keeping wetlands wet.
Farmers would be allowed to renew their contracts for the other seven million acre-feet usually available. And they would be able to sell the water to urban water districts for whatever price the market would bear. But to induce conservation, they would be charged sharply higher prices for the last 20 percent of the water delivered. And a separate fee would finance a $50 million a year program to mitigate environmental damage.
The farmers and their important friends are furious. Senator John Seymour, the California Republican who faces an uphill battle against Diane Feinstein, bitterly fought the provisions and even tied up the Senate for a day by requiring a word-for-word reading of the 396-page bill. And earlier this month, Pete Wilson, the Republican Governor of California, wrote that its passage would be "a vicious economic blow to California."
Mr. Graff thinks the farmers are overreacting. He notes that they have long been at risk of losing some of their water by action in the courts, where environmental claims are being taken more seriously.
Nor is it clear that the new system would really disrupt agribusiness. Tom Jensen, the head of the Grand Canyon Trust who served as counsel to the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, believes that virtually all farmers should be able to cope simply by switching away from alfalfa, rice and cotton.
During the California primary, President Bush vowed to veto the Bradley-Miller bill. But it is very popular in other states where Mr. Bush is running close races with Bill Clinton. And free market types on the President's policy staff are making no secret of their enthusiasm for the bill's water-trading provisions.
Moreover, if the President is tempted to sign, he will have a good excuse. The bill is softer on farmers than the draft he criticized last May. Indeed, while the final version does exact a price, it insures their privileged access to Federal water for decades to come.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BAY AREA INSURANCE SERVICES (50%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (55%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (55%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; CALIFORNIA UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WATER; LAW AND LEGISLATION WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); VETO (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); IRRIGATION (89%); DROUGHT (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (76%); AGRICULTURE & ENVIRONMENT (75%); MAMMALS (75%); AGRICULTURE (70%); WETLANDS (70%); LAWYERS (67%); SUBURBS (60%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); GEORGE MILLER (US REPRESENTATIVE) (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



994 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 24; Column 1; Cultural Desk; Word and Image Page

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: Review/Television;
Assessing the Candidates' Health-Care Ideas

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN

 BODY:
If, with so few days left before you have to pull the lever, the differences between the Republican and Democratic proposals for health care still seem fuzzy, you could do worse than tune into tonight's edition of "The Health Quarterly" at 10 P.M. on Channel 13.
Roger Mudd visits families caught in what he calls "the great American health-care squeeze." All are worried about the loss of health insurance, a condition that afflicts 37 million people, most of whom make too much money to qualify for Federal help but too little to buy insurance on their own. 
 After laying out the plans put forward by President Bush and Gov. Bill Clinton, Mr. Mudd asks for assessments by two health-care analysts: Uwe Reinhardt, a professor of political economy at Princeton University, and Stuart Altman, who was a health-care adviser to Presidents Richard M. Nixon and Gerald R. Ford.
Both express skepticism that the Bush plan to give vouchers to low-income families can do the job. Mr. Reinhardt says he doubts that the maximum credit of $3,750 would enable most people to buy adequate insurance.
But he also says the Clinton plan, which would create pools of private insurers to offer group insurance to employers at lower costs, has not been spelled out sufficiently to permit an analysis of the figures. Moreover, as he sees it, compelling a business to offer health insurance is a way of using it as a tax collector for Washington. He concludes, "If both camps tell you they don't have to raise taxes to fund this, both are telling you a fib."
As for the promises of both candidates to contain ever-rising medical costs, Mr. Altman sees more hope in the Clinton plan than in the Bush plan, but he adds that the controls could mean limitations on certain kinds of care: "You might have to wait for a while." He gives the Clinton plan a B+ and the Bush plan a C.
Mr. Reinhardt gives both a sardonic A+: "They tell you very little, they leave things very vague and they play to an electorate that cannot stand the truth." For those who can stand the truth, tonight's program offers more of it than the candidates have.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: HEALTH QUARTERLY, THE (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: WNET (TV STATION) (NYC) PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WNET (TV STATION) (NYC) PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; REVIEWS US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (84%); TAX LAW (78%); POLITICS (78%); FAMILY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); INSURANCE (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (52%); 

PERSON: GOODMAN, WALTER BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



995 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Home Desk; Consumer's World Page

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: WHERE TO FIND IT

BYLINE: By Terry Trucco

 BODY:
"ALL people are not perfect," said W. Burdette Hunton, strolling past a row of dress forms made by his concern, the Wolf Form Company, in Englewood, N.J. Most of the forms were, in fact, a perfect women's size 8, which clothing manufacturers favor for sample garments. But there was also a custom-made women's size 16, with inches added to waist and bust; a child's form with a removable head, and a generous men's size 50, ordered by an opera company.
People with polished skills and pattern-perfect measurements seldom have problems fitting garments. But for most stitchers, a clothing form can be a vital tool, particularly if it is customized. Fitting problems are often eliminated by using a form, and for sophisticated methods of clothing construction, like French draping, a form is a necessity. 
 A custom form is also helpful when the sewer is shaping clothes to disguise a sloping shoulder, a raised hip or other minor imperfections.
The recession and sky-high clothing prices have contributed to a small boom in home sewing after years of decline. "Some people also find it satisfying to make their own clothes," said Bruno Ferri, the president of Wolf Form.
Wolf, which dates from the early 1900's, creates garment forms primarily for designers, clothing manufacturers and fashion schools. But the company sells directly to individuals as well, and it accepts custom orders. Clients can stop by for a fitting or can fill out a detailed measurement form, available by mail. Forms start at $450.
A Wolf form gets its shape from a sturdy papier-mache core made from molds. Cores are padded with cotton stock, covered with cream-colored Irish linen and placed on adjustable metal rods. The company has more than 1,200 molds in stock and makes new ones when needed. Sizes and shapes change, after all. "When I started here in 1931, a women's size 10 was a 34 1/2-inch bust, 24 1/2-inch waist, 34 1/2-inch hip," Mr. Hunton said. Today a size 8 is even larger than a size 10, measuring 36 inches, 26 inches, 38 inches.
WOLF FORM COMPANY , 17 Van Nos trand Avenue, Englewood, N.J. 07631; (201) 567-6556 or (212) 255-4508.
 
Make That 'Fashion Forms'
 "The word 'dress form' makes you think of something Grandma had in the attic," said LaVina Scott, a fashion design instructor for 25 years. So when Mrs. Scott invented a do-it-yourself method for making dress forms in 1968, she decided to call them fashion forms. In 1975 she published a book, "Sew Clothes to You," with step-by-step instructions ($24.95, available by mail). Based in Stockton, Calif., she now travels widely, giving seminars on making fashion forms.
"The idea was to make a form that fit the body perfectly," Mrs. Scott said. "A form that duplicates you offers proficiency in fitting, draping and pattern alteration." She also wanted a lightweight form that the stitcher could plunge pins into with ease. Her solution was to make a papier-mache model of the sewer's body and fill it with liquid polyurethane, then pad and cover the form.
Forms take 40 to 80 hours to make. "And you need someone to help you put the papier-mache on yourself," Mrs. Scott said. She suggests that the form be made on a day when the sewer is at a slightly heavier weight than average, since it is easier to fit fabric snugly.
Mrs. Scott also offers a three-hour video on French draping with a fashion form ($49.99 through December, $79.99 thereafter).
LAVINA SCOTT , 875 West Sonoma Avenue, Stockton, Calif. 95204;  (209) 463-3989.
 
Forms by Mail
 "It's so much easier to sew with a dress form," said Alan Wootton, the sales manager of the National Thread and Supply Corporation, a 44-year-old mail-order company specializing in sewing supplies. National offers several dress forms, all currently under $150. The biggest seller is the Dritz "My Double," a flexible plastic shell covered with a blue-gray nylon knitted material ($119.95). Small wheels at the neck, bust, waist and hips adjust each measurement. A free catalogue is available.
NATIONAL THREAD AND SUPPLY CORPORATION , 695 Red Oak Road, Stockbridge, Ga. 30281; (800) 331-7600.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "A form that duplicates you offers proficiency in fitting," said LaVina Scott, a fashion design instructor. (Michael Jones for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: WOLF FORM CO (75%); NATIONAL THREAD&SUPPLY CORP (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; MANNEQUINS (DUMMIES) FASHION DESIGN (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); APPAREL MFG (77%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (67%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (57%); 

PERSON: TRUCCO, TERRY LAVINA SCOTT (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



996 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 234 words

HEADLINE: Gross National Letdown

 BODY:
President Bush smiled when he learned this week that economic growth during the third quarter reached a surprising 2.7 percent, almost twice the previous rate. But his smile shouldn't be broad. The new figure almost certainly exaggerates the health of the economy, which continues to creep along at a painfully slow pace.
Even the 2.7 figure is half the normal rate of recovery and not enough to bring down unemployment. And there are plenty of reasons to question whether the third-quarter pace will continue. Part of the uptick was due to an aberrant surge in defense spending, another part to consumers drawing down savings at an unsustainable rate. And the figure may well be revised downward once the Commerce Department checks its technical procedures for handling inflation. 
 So after scouring the new data, what picture emerges? The economy is growing, but barely. Unemployment isn't likely to fall very much. Wages will probably continue to stagnate.
The picture isn't alarming, but neither is it encouraging. Unless the fourth quarter produces dramatic improvement, the first order of business for the new Congress will be to stimulate the economy with a package of temporary tax cuts and accelerated infrastructure investment. The package will have to be big enough to matter, but self- liquidating so that Wall Street need not fear a substantial increase in the Federal debt.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EDITORIALS; GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (GNP); ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX LAW (66%); NATIONAL DEBT (66%); DEFENSE SPENDING (55%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



997 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: For Congress From the Suburbs

 BODY:
Some of the more provocative Congressional contests this year are in New York City's suburbs. Here are our recommendations in some key contested races, based on interviews and an analysis of candidates' records.
 Second District (Suffolk County): It's disappointing that Representative Tom Downey, who went to Washington in 1975 as a young Democratic reformer, has let power go to his head. He still bristles at criticism of a 1990 junket to Barbados, where he and other lawmakers mixed with lobbyists who had business before their committee. Even so, on many domestic issues and especially child care and welfare, Mr. Downey continues to provide an unusually knowledgeable voice. 
 His Republican opponent, Rick Lazio, is an engaging Suffolk County legislator who clearly has a future in politics, but we endorse Mr. Downey for his mastery of substantive issues.
Third District (Nassau): This lively race pits Nassau County Comptroller Peter King, the Republican candidate, against the Democrat Steve Orlins, a businessman making his first try at elective office. Still supportive of failed Reagan-Bush economic policies and zealously opposed to abortion rights, Mr. King has misused his office by auditing abortion clinics. Though he sounded belated alarms, he also has to bear some responsibility for Nassau's shaky finances.
It's unfortunate that Mr. Orlins opposes any new tax increases, but we endorse him as the better bet to provide responsible representation.
Fourth District (Nassau): Voters would be well served by either candidate -- David Levy, a Hempstead Town Councilman, or Philip Schiliro, a Democrat and a top aide to Representative Henry Waxman of California.
Mr. Levy, a moderate Republican closely tied to the party machine, emphasizes the need to reduce the deficit and energize the economy. Mr. Schiliro focuses on environmental issues, reflecting his key role in shaping the landmark Clean Air Act. Both support abortion rights, though Mr. Levy would impose restrictions. Because of his Congressional experience, we favor Mr. Schiliro.
 19th District (Putnam and parts of Westchester, Orange and Dutchess counties): Voters in this revamped district have a choice between two well-qualified candidates. The veteran Hamilton Fish Jr., a Republican, has provided diligent leadership while his opponent, Neil McCarthy, a Democrat, is an impressively knowledgeable lawyer.
Mr. Fish's opposition to abortion rights is troubling, especially since he bases his position on a tortured and fragile legal argument. Still, it is difficult to reject a Congressman who has compiled such an admirably strong and progressive record on other issues, especially in the area of civil rights. We urge Mr. McCarthy to try again, but support Mr. Fish's bid for a 13th term.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); BARBADOS (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NASSAU COUNTY (NY); SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY); WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); ORANGE COUNTY (NY); DUTCHESS COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (93%); BARBADOS (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; EDITORIALS; ENDORSEMENTS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SUBURBS (90%); COUNTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ABORTION (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); LOBBYING (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLITICS (77%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (75%); TAX LAW (73%); TAX INCREASES (70%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (70%); CIVIL RIGHTS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (62%); 

PERSON: DOWNEY, THOMAS J (REPR); ORLINS, STEPHEN A; SCHILIRO, PHIL; FISH, HAMILTON JR (REPR) RONALD REAGAN (79%); HENRY WAXMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



998 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: Water to the Rich Shouldn't Be World Preservation Ethic

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Slaking California's Thirst" (editorial, Oct. 13), in which you commend a bill approved by Congress that says "water developed with Federal funds is a commodity no different from food and fuel that can be bought and sold within reasonable limits to the highest bidder": 
 Years of drought and economic depression are very poor excuses to extend the failed theory that water is a commodity, managed by market pressures and sold to the highest bidder. In Colorado, water all runs toward money, instead of downhill. East Slope cities divert most of their water from the West Slope of the Rockies, because they bought the right to do so. The result: megapopulations and megapollution in their part of the state. The natural alternative is a larger number of smaller cities downstream, all across the state. Much better for the human and natural environment, too.
The West Slope had an oil shale boom a few years ago; the oil companies bought water rights from ranches all over the drainage, then went out of business. The result? Dry, sagebrush-covered land replaced grassy grazing land. Plus a large pool of "water rights" for sale to the highest bidder, probably San Diego. Water for Colorado ranching generally drains slowly back into the rivers for use again downstream, but water for cities just disappears from here. Agriculture can never be the highest bidder for water.
The last 50 years haven't done anything except increase the size of the desert cities and their greed for water. Why expect anything different in the next 50 years? You state: "time enough to discover new ways to avoid waste." Yes, but human nature dictates eleventh-hour emergency measures only. Let this be the eleventh hour; deal with it now. If the will is there, there are other ways to achieve the good ends you cite, like guaranteeing enough water in streams and wildlife habitats to restore fisheries and other natural areas.
"Water limits population" sounds a better ethic for preservation of the world than does water to the rich. If there isn't enough water for additional desert-city growth, well, that's life. Literally.
 
LINDA JOHNSON
Basalt, Colo., Oct. 14, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WATER LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ETHICS (88%); APPROVALS (78%); DROUGHT (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); RIVERS (75%); WATER RIGHTS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (71%); WILDLIFE (65%); DESERTS (64%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (61%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (52%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



999 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Perot Plan Prescribes an Economic Disaster

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "Mr. Perot Presents Some Beef" (editorial, Oct. 19), you let Ross Perot off much too easy.
Mr. Perot's "beef" is spoiled and lacking in nutritional content. His television tables and charts, along with his book, are full of more obfuscations, inconsistencies and inaccuracies than you mention and, more fundamentally, lack understanding of how a modern economy functions. 
 You write that Mr. Perot presents "a damning indictment of how America's $4 trillion debt has inhibited productive investment and burdened future generations." Notwithstanding that the debt held by the public, that is, outside the Government itself, is $3 trillion, not $4 trillion, where did Mr. Perot explain how the debt inhibited investment and burdened future generations? It certainly is not in his oft-repeated one-liner that "we are spending our children's money."
As any economist can tell you -- or might have told him -- the issue is not using up people's money; money can always be printed. It is what we do to enlarge and use our resources of labor and capital productively.
The high-minded seminar with which you credit Mr. Perot was not high-minded at all, but a pandering to popular misunderstanding. A truly high-minded seminar would have explained that the real issues about debt and deficits relate to how they affect purchasing power, output and employment now, and how they affect our investment in the future. It would also have explained that Mr. Perot, or any business accountant, would hardly tolerate in his business the way our Federal deficits are calculated, failing to separate capital or investment spending from the current account.
Mr. Perot charges others with plans for which the numbers do not add up. My reading of his book and his not-too-clear television presentation of tables and charts is that a major part of budget balancing would come from increased taxes on gasoline, which he also pledges to use to rebuild our highways! I am all in favor of this, but one can't use the same tax dollars to reduce the deficit and to build roads! Economists have a phrase for that: double-counting.
But most fundamentally, Mr. Perot's plan of drastic tax increases and expenditure cuts would be a disaster for the economy in the short term, depriving us of billions of dollars of needed purchasing power over a period when none but the most sluggish recovery, if any, is in sight. And over the long term, Mr. Perot's single-minded focus on eliminating the budget deficit, as it is miscalculated, would prevent us from making the public and private investment in infrastructure, education, research and new technology on which our future depends. All of that has nothing to do with spending our children's money.
George Bush has presented no responsible fiscal plan, and his campaign has offered a variety of dubious tax cuts to be matched by unspecified decreases in "spending." Bill Clinton presents numbers that are hardly "wildly optimistic" and do add up, at least as well as any forecasts of an uncertain future can.
Governor Clinton too would reduce the deficit, somewhat more than in the forecasts of the Bush Administration's budgets, but he would do it in the one way that would help the economy and not wreck it.
That is, by increasing employment and income, so that less money will have to go out in unemployment benefits and welfare payments and more will go to the Government in higher tax revenues out of the higher incomes, with no general increase in tax rates.
 
ROBERT EISNER
Professor of Economics
Northwestern University
Evanston, Ill., Oct. 21, 1992

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); ELECTIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (74%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (70%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (66%); INFRASTRUCTURE (64%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (63%); FUEL TAX (61%); TAX LAW (61%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (61%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: PEROT, ROSS GEORGE W BUSH (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992



1000 of 1074 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
The Voting Trigger

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Perhaps you, too, have had a rough time this year deciding which candidate you are less against. Here is how one Undecided Voter reached a decision: I searched for my key trigger.
Each voter has an array of triggers inside his mind: these range from taxes (higher under Clinton) to concern for human rights (lower under Bush); from government domination of the economy (worse with Clinton) to government intrusion into private lives (worse with Bush). 
 The character trigger? My instinct is not to trust Clinton, whose campaign has achieved a Dewey-eyed smugness, but I have learned from hard experience not to trust Bush. (Perotnoia is not an option.)
My own key trigger this year, which is probably not most people's, is bunkerism -- a corrosive penchant for secrecy, compounded by ethical blindness to conflict of interest. A generation ago, I saw that arrogance of insiderdom destroy an Administration and many people's lives; that's why the need for Washington glasnost seizes me now.
As a test, I submitted a question to Bill Clinton last month about more open government: Did he support extension of the Freedom of Information Act, which permits citizen and press access to unclassified papers in executive departments, to cover Congress and the White House?
On any other subject, I would get a call back from Clinton aide George Stephanopoulos the same day; but on this, silence. After weeks of pestering came this fudge: "I support principles of FOIA. . . . Having said that, I have not studied the particular policy questions raised by extending FOIA to Congress and the White House." Having ducked, Mr. Clinton added soothingly: "As President, I would look at this issue with a strong preference for public disclosure. . . ."
He would sell dangerous F-15's to Saudi Arabia and keep open unnecessary defense installations to pick up a few votes, but on a matter that might open up closed-door political operations in the White House -- thereby keeping them clean -- Bill Clinton and his policy wonks were too busy to study the policy question. That puts those few of us whose votes are triggered by excessive secrecy between Little Rock and a hard place.
The hard place is George Bush's refusal to permit independent investigation of obstruction of justice within his Justice Department. He has just personally and publicly joined Attorney General William Barr, his former C.I.A. aide, in the Iraqgate cover-up.
Asked yesterday by Charles Gibson of ABC's "Good Morning America" about accusations in this space, Mr. Bush replied: "He's making charges that are not true. . . . The Justice Department had 40 lawyers that are nonpolitical. And they looked at these charges out of the partisan House [Judiciary] Committee and they said there isn't anything here. Forty that are nonpolitical wrote a 97-page report."
The President is associating himself with the unsigned apologia for nonfeasance attached to his Attorney General's rejection of the House's first call for independent counsel. The "career prosecutors" so often cited therein, whom Mr. Bush misidentifies as 40 "nonpolitical" lawyers, are mainly his political appointees. Most of these whitewashers serve at his pleasure and their jobs depend on his re-election.
The real career prosecutors at Justice include many who have been on the phone to me to express their disgust at the 97-page Barr apologia -- a document already exposed as misleadingly inadequate by the recent C.I.A.-F.B.I. accusations. These veteran straight arrows will not risk retaliation by volunteering evidence to their political boss's patsy prosecutor -- but will testify about their superiors' wrongful interference when a grand jury is convened by a court-appointed independent counsel.
Now to my voting trigger. Mr. Clinton's reluctance to stand foursquare against unnecessary secrecy is troubling, but Mr. Bush's embrace yesterday of a document that may figure in a criminal conspiracy is far worse: his encouragement of Barr's stonewalling places the Iraqgate scandal in the Oval Office.
New York Times columnists traditionally do not endorse any candidate, and I'm for traditional values. But any reader who cannot figure out against whom this lifelong Republican is voting this year isn't trying.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAQ UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION; SPECIAL PROSECUTORS (INDEPENDENT COUNSEL); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (84%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ETHICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (73%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); LAWYERS (63%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (57%); INVESTIGATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BARR, WILLIAM (ATTY GEN) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1992

 
