

1 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 3; Arts and Leisure Desk; THEATER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: A One-Man Rhyming History Slam

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE

 BODY:
THERE are no studies on the subject, but it's probably safe to say that few slam poetry champions have both an honors degree from Yale and an opera scholarship on their resumes. But Daniel Beaty has a gift for defying convention.
 At 30, this actor, singer and writer has grabbed the attention of the New York theater and is now poised to open his one-man show, ''Emergence-See!'' at the Public Theater on Oct. 10. 
''I was head over heels for him,'' said Oskar Eustis, the Public's artistic director, recalling how he felt after catching a performance of ''Emergence-See!'' in Harlem. ''You see and feel Def Poetry Jam. At the same time it was this old-fashioned evangelical, consciousness-raising aspect to it that set the audience on fire. I thought: This is theater that exists to serve something other than itself.'' 
 In ''Emergence-See!'', a one-act drama directed by Kenny Leon, a slave ship suddenly emerges on the modern-day Hudson River near the Statue of Liberty. Mr. Beaty plays more than 40 characters, including a ''militant negro,'' a ''ghetto girl'' and a ''high-class colored woman.'' One black character, Reginald, embittered and crazed by the killing of his wife years ago during a robbery, actually swims to the ship, called Remembrance by ''slave-ologists.''
 Another character is Wakeem, who attends a poetry cafe with a theme of embracing ''even the most painful part of one's past,'' not unlike what Mr. Beaty himself has done many times. In a poem to black superstars, Wakeem rages: 
 I hold you in poetic detention until you learn this lesson
 Our children will watch BET and buy your CD
 Before they ever think of reading a book
 So as you sip Courvoisier think of the knowledge you took.
 Mr. Beaty, who has close-cropped hair and a dazzling smile, has experienced his own flashes of stardom. He has appeared on HBO's ''Russell Simmons Presents Def Poetry,'' at the Kennedy Center in Washington as well as performing ''Emergence-See!'' across the country and in Europe. In 2004 the Nuyorican Poets Cafe named him the Grand Slam champion. But he remains ardently anti-bling. ''A lot of my themes are about redeeming the past,'' Mr. Beaty said, taking a break from rehearsal in an empty theater at the Public. 
 Too often black characters onstage on one-dimensional, Mr. Beaty said. ''I am hip-hop, but I'm also opera. I'm Ivy League, but I'm also the 'hood,'' he explained. ''In 'Emergence-See!' I'm really trying to paint a portrait of who we are with so many diverse personalities coming through me as one artist and my inhabiting them all.'' 
 He grew up in Dayton, Ohio, the youngest of five children. His mother worked hard as a real-estate agent, but his father was imprisoned for theft, Mr. Beaty said, and his oldest brother, who lived at home, was addicted to crack. That brother has now been drug-free for two years, and Mr. Beaty said he will attend a performance at the Public. 
 At school, teachers soon identified Mr. Beaty as gifted. In the third grade he began writing speeches and began making them publicly. The first speech was titled ''I Think the Best, I Expect the Best.'' His talents won him a scholarship to a private high school in Ohio and another one to Yale, where he studied English and music.
 ''Yale was the time when I came up against the question of am I going to be greater than my past, greater than the black men in my past?'' Mr. Beaty said. All his experiences, he said, told him that he was moving in the right direction. 
 After winning yet another scholarship to Aspen Opera Theater, Mr. Beaty landed a series of contracts to tour Europe. In the summer of 1997 while in Urbania, Italy, he met a group of students from Ghana. They told him that a Negro spiritual called ''Lord, How Come Me Here'' -- tacked on at the end of an evening of European music -- had the same melody as a song from their village.
 ''It had survived the middle passage,'' Mr. Beaty said. ''It's what I talk about in this piece. Though we have been displaced and disconnected, the core of who we are cannot be taken away. The consciousness can be taken away, but it's always there.''
 After living in San Francisco, he arrived in New York two weeks before 9/11, obviously not the most propitious time to start a career. He taught in the Bronx and also began making his mark at the city's slam poetry gatherings, all the while refining ''Emergence-See!'' 
 In 2003 he performed it at one of the city's many Off Off Broadway theater festivals in a nearly empty room. But when the lights came up that Sunday afternoon, a teary-eyed Ruby Dee was in the audience. She told Mr. Beaty that the world needed to see his play. 
 Since then Ms. Dee has written letters on Mr. Beaty's behalf, offered advice and produced ''Emergence-See!'' at the National Black Theater festival last year. 
 ''I believe him thoroughly when he's a little girl and when he's an African prince,'' Ms. Dee said in an interview. ''He's an entertainer well-grounded in social, political and economic realities. He embodies to me what actors should be.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Daniel Beaty has performed his own play ''Emergence-See!'' from Harlem to Europe. Now's he's taking it to the Public Theater. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); POETRY (90%); WRITERS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); HIP HOP CULTURE (77%); RAP MUSIC (77%); RELIGION (53%); ROBBERY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%); EUROPE (85%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



2 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2744 words

HEADLINE: Hope, at $4,200 a Dose

BYLINE: By ALEX BERENSON

 BODY:
CHARGING $4,200 a dose for a new version of an old cancer drug has helped make Dr. Patrick Soon-Shiong a billionaire.
 The drug, Abraxane, does not help patients live longer than the older treatment, though it does shrink tumors in more patients, according to clinical trials. And the old and new medicines have similar side effects. An independent review of Abraxane published in December in a cancer research journal concluded that the drug was ''old wine in a new bottle.''
Still, Dr. Soon-Shiong's company, Abraxis BioScience, has promoted Abraxane as a major advance in treating late-stage breast cancer -- that is, for patients who have not responded to other treatments and are now close to death -- and is seeking approval for patients to use it earlier in their treatment. And, in at least one way, Abraxane is a breakthrough: it costs about 25 times as much as a generic version of the older medicine, which is best known by its brand name, Taxol.
 Because of the odd economics of the cancer drug market, though, Abraxane's price does not seem to be hurting its popularity. 
 About 20,000 people have now been treated with the drug, and Dr. Soon-Shiong expects its sales to approach $200 million this year. By 2010, Abraxane's annual sales could reach $1 billion, analysts say.
 Those rosy forecasts illustrate the pricing power that makers of cancer drugs wield. With patients often facing grim prognoses and desperate for new therapies, and insurers relatively powerless to negotiate prices or deny coverage, the cost of treatments seems to have little impact on demand.
 The rise in cancer-drug prices is a microcosm of broader trends pushing up health care costs nationally. Despite decades of efforts by governments and insurers to restrain costs, patients continue to want the newest -- and most expensive -- drugs and medical devices. And doctors and the health care industry have little reason to keep costs in check, because insurers rarely deny coverage for new treatments on the basis of price.
 As a result, health care costs continue to skyrocket. On Tuesday, the Kaiser Family Foundation reported that the cost of employee health insurance coverage rose 8 percent, according to a survey conducted from January to May this year. Businesses now spend about $8,500 a year for health insurance for the average family, the foundation said, with employees adding $3,000, not counting the cost of deductibles and other out-of-pocket payments.
 Abraxane, and cancer drugs generally, are still a tiny part of total medical spending. But their costs are rising even faster than overall health care inflation. Worldwide, spending on cancer drugs is expected to more than double from 2004 to 2009, to $55 billion, with most of that in the United States.
 LARGELY as a result of investor enthusiasm for Abraxane, the stock market value of Abraxis is $4.6 billion.The company, which also makes several generic drugs used in hospitals, had a profit of $86 million last year on sales of $519 million. Dr. Soon-Shiong, the company's chairman, owns 84 percent of the stock, worth about $3.8 billion.
 Dr. Soon-Shiong, a Los Angeles surgeon with a controversial history in the drug industry, says Abraxane's price is justified because it causes fewer allergic reactions than Taxol, whose chemical name is paclitaxel. And his company is spending large sums on clinical trials to test Abraxane in new categories of cancer patients, he said.
 ''We have a breakthrough,'' he said. ''Look at the data.''
 Dr. Soon-Shiong also noted that although Abraxane has not been proved to prolong survival, it does appear to cause tumors to shrink more often than does Taxol. In the clinical trial that led to Abraxane's approval, about 24 percent of patients showed some response to Abraxane, compared with 11 percent for Taxol.
 Independent oncologists agree that reducing the risk of allergic reactions is an advantage -- and perhaps reason enough for doctors to choose Abraxane, costs aside. Still, in clinical trials, Abraxane's overall side-effect profile was similar to that of paclitaxel, which was approved as a chemotherapy treatment in 1992 and is still widely used. Both Abraxane and Taxol can kill white blood cells, leaving patients open to infection, as well as damage nerves in the hands and feet. Taxol causes more damage to white blood cells, while Abraxane causes more nerve damage.
 Drug industry experts say Abraxane's price reflects the fact that makers of cancer drugs can charge high prices for new medicines even if they are only marginally better than their older counterparts. That pricing dynamic is enabled by insurance, which shields patients from the full price of drugs. Without pressure from their insurers, patients have little reason to choose older treatments over expensive new therapies.
 Doctors, who ultimately decide what drugs to prescribe, also do not have to worry about paying for the treatments they choose.
 ''When I'm with a patient, my job is to be a patient advocate, not to try to save society money on chemotherapy,'' said Dr. Barbara L. McAneny, the chief executive of New Mexico Oncology/Hematology Consultants, in Albuquerque. 
 The Food and Drug Administration, meanwhile, does not regulate drug prices but considers only whether new medicines are safe and effective. Medicare, which pays for Abraxane, is also forbidden by law from considering cost in deciding what treatments to cover.
 While insurers have tried to save money in other drug categories by encouraging patients to use cheaper generic drugs, they face public pressure not to restrict access to new cancer treatments. At least since 1971, when President Richard M. Nixon declared a ''war on cancer'' and vowed to eliminate it, cancer has been viewed as a uniquely frightening disease that deserves the highest priority for research and treatment.
 At the same time, most cancer drugs cannot be easily substituted for one another, preventing insurers from playing one drug maker against a rival to achieve lower prices. Abraxis, despite having a close generic competitor for its drug, appears to be benefiting from the insurance industry's acquired habit of paying for whatever the cancer doctor prescribes.
 ''Everyone is well aware that prices keep going up,'' said Dr. Steven B. Miller, the chief medical officer at CuraScript, a division of Express Scripts, which helps companies manage their drug insurance plans. But employers are reluctant to tell Express Scripts to refuse to pay for costly new cancer drugs, Dr. Miller said.
 ''Do you want your employees calling and saying, 'You're denying my family the latest cancer care?' '' Dr. Miller said. ''Until the payor community'' -- that is, companies that provide health insurance -- ''develops the appetite to be more aggressive, it would be irresponsible for us to press them on it,'' he added.
 But Dr. John C. Hornberger, a senior research associate at the Sphere Institute, a nonprofit health and public policy group in Burlingame, Calif., says employers are wary of interfering in medical decision-making by their employees. ''They want to control costs,'' he said, ''but they don't want to be involved.''
 Carol Austin-Fink, who learned last year that she had cancer in her right breast, insisted on taking Abraxane after she received the diagnosis because the chemotherapy she received in 1996 for a different cancer in her left breast had caused severe side effects. The earlier treatment did not include Taxol, so she had no idea whether Taxol would cause problems for her, but she did not want to take the chance.
 Ms. Austin-Fink, a 59-year-old writer who lives in Las Vegas, said she received six doses of Abraxane over four months, a standard course of treatment. The cost of the drug did not concern her because she has excellent insurance coverage, she said.
 ''My insurance company just paid it, because my doctors said they needed it, and the insurance company doesn't argue with stuff like that,'' Ms. Austin-Fink said.
 The Abraxane had few side effects and caused her tumor to shrink almost immediately. Her cancer has remained under control since her final treatment a year ago, she said. She said she believes that Abraxane worked better for her than Taxol would have, though she acknowledged that she could not be sure.
 Drug companies have sharply increased prices for new cancer drugs in the last decade. Since 1998, for example, Celgene, a biotechnology company based in Summit, N.J., has raised the price of Thalomid, a drug for a cancer called multiple myeloma, to more than $35,000 a year from $4,000. 
 Celgene is not alone. New treatments now routinely cost several thousand dollars a month. Worldwide spending on cancer medicines, which was $24 billion in 2004, is expected to rise to $55 billion in 2009, making oncology treatments the biggest drug category, according to IMS Health, which provides data on drug sales. 
 The higher prices are beginning to strain the system, said Carolina Hinestrosa, executive vice president at the National Breast Cancer Coalition, an advocacy group. 
 Even if they have insurance, many patients face co-payments of 20 percent for their cancer drugs, an expense that can become ruinous for patients receiving combination therapy with several new drugs. For example, Abraxane is being tested along with Avastin, a treatment from Genentech that costs $8,000 a month for some patients.
 Drug costs are rising so fast that some patients cannot afford the newest treatments, and access to some therapies ''is beginning to be eroded,'' Ms. Hinestrosa said. 
 ORIGINALLY, Taxol itself was considered expensive. When the F.D.A. approved it in December 1992, its price of $986 a dose led to Congressional hearings. Since 2000, when Bristol-Myers Squibb's patent on Taxol expired, the drug has been available both as nonbranded generic paclitaxel and as branded Taxol, at a cost of about $150 a dose for the generic and $1,000 for the branded version, which is now sold mostly outside the United States.
 These days, though, high prices rarely draw public protests, in part because most patients are still receiving their medicines. That is accomplished through a mix of insurance coverage and programs sponsored by charities and drug makers, including Abraxis, that provide free supplies to the indigent. 
 ''There isn't an effort in terms of public policy to keep prices under control,'' Ms. Hinestrosa said.
 Megan Murphy, an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets who follows Abraxis, agrees. While doctors and patients have begun to complain, drug makers still have substantial pricing power, she said. ''At some point, something will change here,'' she said. ''But there doesn't seem to be any real resistance right now.''
 Dr. Soon-Shiong said in an interview that he, too, worried about the cost of cancer treatment. But Abraxane is fairly priced, he said, because it is based on a scientific breakthrough that the company refers to as ''nanoparticle technology.'' 
 This is not the first time that Dr. Soon-Shiong has aggressively promoted a new disease treatment. In the mid-1990's, he won attention for transplanting pancreatic cells into two diabetic patients. Eventually, the transplants failed. 
 At about the same time that Dr. Soon-Shiong was researching both diabetes treatments and Abraxane, he created a company called American Pharmaceutical Partners to market generic drugs to hospitals. American Pharmaceutical generated controversy by giving stock options to executives at a company responsible for buying drugs on behalf of hospitals nationwide. Some doctors said the stock options created a serious conflict of interest by giving the executives -- who were supposed to represent the hospitals -- a financial interest in American Pharmaceutical's success. American Pharmaceutical denied any wrongdoing and said all the arrangements were properly disclosed. 
 Dr. Soon-Shiong created Abraxis BioScience earlier this year by merging American Pharmaceutical Partners with another company he controlled, American BioScience. Shareholders in American Pharmaceutical Partners have sued him over the merger, contending that it benefited him at their expense. Dr. Soon-Shiong says that he has done nothing wrong and that the lawsuits are irrelevant to Abraxane's promise.
 ABRAXANE is a reformulated version of paclitaxel, a chemical found in the Pacific yew tree that destroys cancer cells. But paclitaxel, which is given intravenously, is difficult to use. Because it does not dissolve in water, the drug must be mixed in Cremophor, a combination of castor oil and alcohol that can cause severe allergic reactions. To reduce that risk, patients who receive Cremophor first receive a steroid and an antihistamine.
 Working with University of Illinois researchers in the 1990's, Dr. Soon-Shiong found a way to give Taxol without Cremophor by coating paclitaxel in fragments of albumin, a protein found in human blood. He named the new treatment Abraxane.
 Abraxane patients do not need antihistamines or steroids. The drug can also be given at slightly higher doses and injected more quickly than traditional paclitaxel, which requires a three hour-infusion.
 A third drug, called Taxotere, works similarly to paclitaxel but is a different chemical compound; it competes with both Abraxane and Taxol. Made by Sanofi-Aventis, Taxotere costs $2,500 a dose. It increases survival slightly in breast cancer patients, compared with Taxol. But because Taxotere has even more severe side effects, many patients and doctors prefer Taxol. Both drugs are widely used. There is no published data comparing Abraxane and Taxotere. 
 In the largest clinical trial comparing Abraxane and Taxol, covering 454 patients, the two drugs produced similar side effects -- although Taxol caused more patients to have low white blood cell counts.
 The trial also showed that Abraxane delayed the growth of tumors for 23 weeks in the average patient, compared with 17 weeks for Taxol. That difference was statistically significant, meaning that it probably did not occur by chance. But the trial did not show that Abraxane extended patients' lives longer than Taxol did, and that is the most important measure of effectiveness. After two years, roughly 75 percent of patients in the study had died, whether they received Abraxane or Taxol. 
 Over all, Abraxane may be slightly more effective than Taxol, and the lack of Cremophor is an advantage, said Dr. Andrew D. Seidman, a breast cancer specialist at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan who has studied Taxol and Taxotere since the early 1990's. But the two drugs are similar, he said. ''Is this a breakthrough in terms of the notion that this is a new class of drug with a new mechanism of action?'' he asked rhetorically. ''No.''
 Dr. Ramaswamy Govindan, a Washington University professor who was co-author of a December article in the Annals of Oncology about Abraxane and other, as-yet- unapproved Cremophor-free versions of Taxol, said that none of the new drugs had shown significant advantages over the older medicine. 
 ''In general, the novel formulations so far have not stood out as distinctly superior,'' Dr. Govindan said. The F.D.A. approved Abraxane as a last-ditch treatment for late-stage breast cancer in January 2005. Now Abraxis is asking the F.D.A. to allow the use of Abraxane as a treatment for early-stage breast cancer, a larger market than that for late-stage treatments. In an unusual move, the company asked the agency earlier this year to waive its typical requirement that the drug be tested in those patients before allowing the expanded use.
 On Sept. 7, the F.D.A. convened a panel of experts in Silver Spring, Md., to discuss Abraxis's request. 
 Committee members voted against the company's proposal 13 to 1, saying that Abraxis needed more data. The company expects to begin discussions soon with the F.D.A. about designing a clinical trial to test Abraxane in early-stage patients.
 At the Sept. 7 hearing, though, Dr. Michael Hawkins, Abraxis's top medical officer, made a remarkable observation about how the company's $4,200-a-dose drug compared with $150 generic paclitaxel. 
 Dr. Hawkins said the F.D.A. should approve Abraxane in early-stage patients without a clinical trial because such testing would probably not prove that his company's drug was different than the conventional treatment. ''These are just two forms of paclitaxel,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Carol Austin-Fink insisted on Abraxane last year after she learned she had breast cancer because previous chemotherapy caused bad side effects. (Photo by John Gurzinski for The New York Times)(pg. 7)
Dr. J. Michael Hawkins, chief medical officer at Abraxis BioScience, spoke last month about Abraxane to a panel of experts convened by the Food and Drug Administration. (Photo by Jamie Rose for The New York Times)
Dr. Patrick Soon-Shiong, chief of Abraxis, says Abraxane's price is justified because it causes fewer allergic reactions. (Photo by J. Michael Short for The New York Times)(pg. 8)Drawing (Drawing by Otto Steininger)(pg. 1)Chart: ''The Drug . . .''A timeline of the cancer drug paclitaxel and Dr. Soon-Shiong's development of a vastly more expensive version.Taxol approvedDEC. 1992 -- The Food and Drug Administration approves paclitaxel for treatment of ovarian cancer. The drug, sold under the brand name Taxol, later becomes a standard treatment for breast and lung cancer.Going publicDEC. 2001 -- American Pharmaceutical Partners, a generic drug maker controlled by Dr. Soon- Shiong, sells shares to public.Taxol patent expires2002 -- After expiration of Taxol's patent and protracted litigation, generic competitors enter the market. Paclitaxel's per-dose price of about $1,000 falls to $150.Abraxane approvedJAN. 2005 -- The F.D.A. approves Abraxane sales in the United States. A month later Abraxane reaches pharmacy shelves. Its cost is $4,200 a dose.. . . and the DoctorDeveloping a new drugMID-1990'S -- Dr. Patrick Soon-Shiong and researchers from the University of Illinois discover how to coat the active ingredient in Taxol, paclitaxel, in way that avoids the need for patients to take the drug with a castor-oil derivative that can cause allergic reactions. This new coated version of paclitaxel is called Abraxane.Presenting resultsDEC. 2003 -- American Bio-Science, a private company controlled by Dr. Soon-Shiong, presents results from a clinical trial comparing Abraxane and Taxol. Abraxane shrinks tumors in more patients than does Taxol, but it does not demonstrate a statistically significant survival advantage over Taxol. Overall side-effect profiles are similar.Ambitious mergerFEB. 2006 -- Dr. Soon-Shiong merges American BioScience and American Pharmaceutical Partners into a new, publicly traded company, Abraxis BioScience. Some shareholders of American Pharmaceutical Partners sue, contending that the deal unfairly benefits Dr. Soon-Shiong.(Sources by Abraxis BioScience
 Food and Drug Administration)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER DRUGS (94%); CANCER (93%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (90%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (90%); INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (86%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (86%); DRUG PRICES (78%); ONCOLOGY (78%); BREAST CANCER (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); TRENDS (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (77%); MEDICAL DEVICES (73%); CHRONOLOGIES (72%); FAMILY (72%); FOUNDATIONS (70%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); SALES PROJECTIONS (70%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (69%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (69%); APPROVALS (68%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (68%) Cancer; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Generic and Brand Name Products; Abraxane (Drug); Breasts; Taxol (Drug); Sales; Cancer

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (93%) Abraxis BioScience

PERSON: Alex Berenson; Patrick Soon-Shiong

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



3 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1918 words

HEADLINE: The Hunger Artists

BYLINE: By A. O. Scott. 
A. O. Scott is a film critic at The Times.

 BODY:
THE UNITED STATES 
 OF ARUGULA
 How We Became
 a Gourmet Nation.
 By David Kamp.
 Illustrated. 392 pp. 
 Broadway Books. $26.
Not so long ago, Newsweek magazine ran a cover story calling attention to a fascinating trend: ''In a burst of new interest in food,'' the article observed, ''U.S. chefs and home cooks are grappling with today's mounting concern for health, lower calories and higher nutrition. Americans are demanding -- and paying for -- the freshest and least chemically treated products available. The new gusto for experimenting with food ... stretches from the back-to-basics passion for organically grown vegetables to a boom in arcane ... food processors, from a surge in restaurants stressing regional Yankee cookery to cooking schools of every conceivable ethnic persuasion.'' 
 By ''not so long ago,'' I mean in 1975, roughly the midpoint in the postwar transformation of American gastronomy, a revolution that is the subject of David Kamp's lively, smart, horrendously titled new book. (The cover depicts Lady Liberty clutching a bunch of greens in place of her torch, proving that Kamp's publishers have turned a deaf ear to the wisdom of a leading American gourmand, Homer Simpson, who once observed that you don't win friends with salad. Alice Waters of Chez Panisse in Berkeley, the Lisa Simpson of American cooking and a central figure in the book, would obviously disagree, but that's between her and Homer.) Revolution is not, in Kamp's account, too strong a word, though it does suggest a suddenness, a punctuality, that his narrative does much to contradict. He traces a gossipy, richly detailed path from Le Pavillon, James Beard and curry powder in the late 1940's to Mario Batali, Thomas Keller and cryovacking in the mid-aughts, stopping along the way to kibitz with Julia Child in the WGBH greenroom, blow a few rails with Jeremiah Tower and company in the hectic kitchen of Chez Panisse and herald the opening of Dean & DeLuca in SoHo. 
 Bliss it was in those dawns to be alive; to be hungry was very heaven. The genius of the food revolution, as of the sexual revolution that unfolded analogously and contemporaneously, was that its defining events were as much subjective as historical. There were public benchmarks -- the publication of the Kinsey Report or Volume 1 of ''Mastering the Art of French Cooking''; the availability of the first birth control pills or bottles of extra virgin olive oil; the opening of ''Last Tango in Paris'' or An American Place -- but the change really happened when it happened to you. With some modifications of emphasis, in other words, the Newsweek story could have -- and, in some venue or another, has -- appeared at just about any time since World War II, as each generation has experienced its moments of culinary discovery, its bouts of trendy excess and its deep epiphanies about the complicated relationships between health and economics, refinement and convenience, environmental responsibility and gustatory delight.
 Anyone who cares about food has an anthology of personally transformative moments: the first time you tasted sushi or salsa, brought a souffle or a sauce bearnaise to successful fruition or dropped $100 on dinner for two. Taken together, these memories chart a significant passage in our cultural history, a process you might call the cosmopolitanization of American taste or perhaps the gentrification of the American kitchen. Most simply, perhaps, it is a radical expansion in the number of people who care about food, in the ways they care about it and in the available consumer expressions of that concern. For Kamp, it is largely a happy story, in which a heroic vanguard of writers, chefs and gastronomes leads the masses out of a world of dull, cautious, standardized food into a paradise of freshness, variety and sophistication. ''This is a book,'' he writes in his preface, ''about ... how food in America got better.'' 
 Following the Emersonian injunction that there is no history, only biography, Kamp, who is a writer and editor at Vanity Fair and GQ, presents a narrative driven by personalities. Some are well known -- the ubiquitous self-branders Emeril Lagasse and Wolfgang Puck, for instance, both of whom receive sympathetic treatment. Others are more obscure, like Jack Ceglic, the third partner in Dean & DeLuca, who kept his name off the store in the interest of alliteration. So much is in here -- the disputed origins of pasta primavera; the debate about whether Tower or Waters was the real genius of Chez Panisse in its early years; the odd fact that Jacques Pepin and Pierre Franey worked as consultants for the Howard Johnson chain -- that you can't complain too much about what isn't. Still, a book that is partly a history of American food writing could have spared more than a nod in the direction of Calvin Trillin, and a celebration of flavor diversity feels incomplete without a shout-out to Jim Leff, the indomitable field commander of the Chowhound insurgency. For my taste, there is too much emphasis on celebrity chefs and high-end dining, a top-down approach that scants the influence of immigrant, ''ethnic'' cooks whose largely anonymous contribution to the sophistication of the American palate should not be underestimated.
 In any case, you can hardly dispute the influence of the three giants who dominate Kamp's early chapters: James Beard, Craig Claiborne and Julia Child, pillars of a nascent ''food establishment'' who served as mostly benevolent authority figures for the generations to follow. Outsiders with respect to the Eastern social establishment -- Beard and Child were Westerners, from Oregon and California respectively, while Claiborne hailed from Mississippi -- they made their careers, as it were, from scratch. The idea of a rotund, gay epicure instructing the middle-class masses on the finer points of taste must have seemed as bizarre as the notion of a tall former United States intelligence officer with a funny voice becoming the nation's first culinary television star, but that is just what Beard and Child accomplished. For his part, Claiborne, The New York Times's first restaurant critic, turned its dining pages into a weekly codex of emerging taste. He not only reviewed the important dining spots in Manhattan, but also profiled home cooks and, with Pierre Franey, an impeccably trained, supremely talented (and very patient) French chef, provided readers with new and intriguing recipes to try. 
 By now, three or four generations have come up under the indirect tutelage of ''the big three.'' On the bookshelf in my kitchen I have my grandmother's copy of Claiborne's epochal ''New York Times Cook Book'' (1961), protectively covered in the remains of an ancient brown paper grocery bag and annotated in black felt tip pen. Beside it is the copy of ''Mastering the Art'' -- ''Julia'' as it is more widely known -- that I lifted from my mother's kitchen many years ago and that is by now so thoroughly dusted in flour that it should brown quite byootifully in a little hot butter. I still use these books frequently and trust them more than most of the flashier successor volumes that fuel my periodic bouts of dinner-party host anxiety.
 But those other books, like the later chapters of ''United States of Arugula,'' are a reminder that Claiborne, Child and Beard, however durable their influence has been, were just the beginning. (Not literally, of course. As Kamp points out, there were good restaurants, accomplished home cooks and innovative food writers around before they showed up, just as there was plenty of sex before Kinsey and the pill.) His ''food establishment'' is followed, in the late 60's and after, by a group he somewhat infelicitously calls ''the countercuisinists.'' Alice Waters is their Marianne, leading her culinary sans-culottes into battle with ''Fresh, Local, Seasonal'' emblazoned on their banner in place of ''Liberte, Egalite, Fraternite.'' 
 This generational shift -- from Julia to Alice, let's say -- is also to some degree a shift from East Coast to West, from France to California, and from a culinary practice based on technique to one organized around ingredients. The appetite for exotic delicacies -- including some, like balsamic vinegar and sun-dried tomatoes, that were barely known in their land of origin -- fed a desire for homegrown products of similar distinction. More than that, the ''countercuisinists'' took up the idea, implicit in the work of Claiborne, Beard and Child, that good cooking could be a mode of protest, a way of opposing the hegemony of the bland, processed, standardized American diet. The radical idealism of Waters and her Berkeley comrades combined with a practical need to win friends with good salad helped spark a renaissance in organic farming and the pasture-raising of livestock. It is telling that the designation ''free range'' as applied to chickens originated not with farmers or U.S.D.A. bureaucrats, but on the menu of a restaurant, Larry Forgione's American Place. 
 Without quite saying so -- and with admirable lightness of touch for just that reason -- Kamp uses food to suggest a broader history, a tale of tastes and trends embedded in the grand epic of American consumer capitalism. In his remarks about dinner parties and restaurant menus, and in his deft gleanings from writers like Gael Greene, Nora Ephron, Michael Field and Ruth Reichl, you can glimpse the anxieties and aspirations of a segment of the native bourgeoisie (boomers, yuppies, bobos, whatever) struggling with the burden of cultural hegemony, and struggling also toward a quintessentially American, defiantly utopian goal, namely the reconciliation of pleasure and virtue. It is not just that we want food to taste good and be good for us; we also, with increasing fervor, want it to be the vehicle and symbol of our goodness. The newest menu buzzwords -- ''line-caught,'' ''pasture-raised,'' ''housemade,'' ''wild'' -- are tokens of ideological commitment, evoking not France or Tuscany but a pastoral, agrarian, natural order -- reserved a month in advance and purchased for a month's rent.
 Which is to say that the dinner-table revolution involves some acute contradictions. ''The United States of Arugula'' pointedly tells only half the story. The other half has been told by Eric Schlosser in ''Fast Food Nation,'' which functions as a kind of dialectical companion to Kamp's book. The history of food in postwar America is as much a story of feedlot-raised hamburgers and strip mall franchises as it is of grass-fed steaks and cozy bistros. Kamp's last chapter, ''Toward a McSustainable Future'' (I swear, this book is much better than such titles suggest), tries to grapple with the paradoxes implicit in the attempt to promote gastronomic ethics on a mass scale, but readers of Michael Pollan's ''Omnivore's Dilemma'' may find it glib and lacking in rigor. Surveying the world from his dining-room table, Pollan looks at our present gastro-agriculture system and finds reason for alarm as well as a measure of hope. Kamp, having grazed widely and digested easily, finds himself pretty content with Whole Foods and Starbucks and the ubiquity of mesclun. And after the meals he has presumably eaten in preparing this book, why shouldn't he be content? He is a populist gourmet, and his argument is that, for the children and grandchildren of James Beard and Julia Child, that phrase is no oxymoron. More arugula, please. But let me have some fries with that.


GRAPHIC: Drawings: 1. Julia Child
2. James Beard
3. Craig Claiborne
4. Pierre Franey
5. Mario Batali
6. Alice Waters
7. Ruth Reichl
8. Bobby Flay
9. Kermit Lynch
10. Emeril Lagasse
11. Daniel Boulud
12. Rachael Ray
13. Jacques Pepin
14. Thomas Keller
 15. Wolfgang Puck (Drawings by Ed Lam)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); TRENDS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); LITERATURE (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); ORGANIC FOODS (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); OILS & FATS (76%); MOVIE REVIEWS (68%); CONTRACEPTION (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: NEWSWEEK INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: EMERIL LAGASSE (58%); BOBBY FLAY (57%); WOLFGANG PUCK (57%); RACHAEL RAY (56%) A O Scott; David Kamp

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (51%) UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



4 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: The Imperial Impulse

BYLINE: By MAX FRANKEL. 
Max Frankel, a former executive editor of The Times, is the author of ''High Noon in the Cold War: Kennedy, Khrushchev and the Cuban Missile Crisis.''

 BODY:
THE AMERICAN WAY OF STRATEGY
 By Michael Lind.
 294 pp. Oxford University Press. $24.
Whatever the worth of Michael Lind's prescriptions for American foreign policy, his glance back at our performance over the last 15 years is helpfully damning. The essence of his complaint concerns our pursuit of hegemony, which he describes not only as a desire for international dominance but also as a lust for unchallengeable power that is bound to wreck the American economy and enfeeble our democracy. 
 The imperial impulse is an aberration in American history, Lind contends in ''The American Way of Strategy,'' and is due primarily to the fact that our success in the cold war was achieved through our total domination of the anti-Soviet coalition. The resulting hubris produced not merely the current mess in Iraq and the resentment of much of the world, he warns, but a pattern of behavior that bodes ill for the American way of life -- our independence among nations and our domestic freedom from government regimentation. 
 Although Lind angrily traces our quixotic campaign to reorder the Middle East to the theologies of the neocon right, he blames the leaders of both political parties for the underlying failure, once the Soviet Union collapsed, to adopt ''a more modest and solvent'' foreign policy. ''Instead of welcoming the emergence of a peaceful multipolar world, America's bipartisan foreign policy elite in the 1990's and 2000's sought to convert America's temporary cold war alliance hegemony into enduring American global hegemony.''
 Our misguided ambition, Lind observes, was to monopolize military strength, to discourage other great powers, like Japan, China, Russia and Germany, from arming for their own defense. We felt entitled, even obliged, to punish upstart ''rogue'' regimes that wanted weapons of mass destruction, with preventive war if necessary. Other signs of overreaching, he thinks, were the expansion of NATO into Eastern Europe (to deny Germany and Russia a sphere of influence there) and the war against Serbia (to reassert America's dominance in Europe and to keep the Russians out of the Balkans). Washington's current agitation against North Korea's nukes and missiles, he suggests, bespeaks not a fear of attack but concern that Japan and South Korea would also soon want advanced weapons and thus upset the American protectorate.
 Implying that even the easy defense of Kuwait should not have been an American obligation, Lind writes that the gulf war of 1991 fully committed the United States to a ''grand strategy of global hegemony.'' He thinks it led directly to the disastrous attempt of the present Bush administration to turn Iraq into an American client state and military base so as ''to intimidate Iran and Syria, and to create a safer environment for Israel.'' Moreover, with new bases also in the former Soviet republics of Central Asia, America intended to command vital trade and oil routes and manage the ''soft containment'' of China and Russia. 
 In sum, the hegemonists were looking to transform overwhelming military superiority into diplomatic and economic pre-eminence, leaving other nations dependent or disadvantaged and America secure for the indefinite future. 
 What the pursuit of hegemony really guarantees, Lind argues most persuasively, is national bankruptcy, an imperial presidency, the erosion of our freedoms and diversion of precious resources. These are not just the temporary costs of the ill-fated Iraq venture, he contends, because hegemony requires commitment to three burdensome and permanent policies: (1) dissuasion -- forever spending much more for our military than all other nations to keep them safely inferior; (2) reassurance -- continually protecting other sizable powers and their interests, with military interventions as needed; and (3) coercive nonproliferation -- regularly threatening or punishing states that attempt to disrupt the decreed American order. 
 You don't have to subscribe to every element of Lind's critique to judge it a shrewd and plausible indictment of the drift of policy since the cold war. And you can surely dismiss the first half of his book, which argues that before the cold war, all our wars, foreign policies and territorial expansions were inspired by maneuvers to produce or restore global balances of power. This glib history is mere prelude to the power-balancing that Lind finally presents as the essential antidote for hegemony. His way, in other words, has long been a proven ''American way of strategy'' -- a clumsy phrase by which he stakes a claim to naming rights, a leg up, perhaps, in the rhetorical competitions of the think-tank punditry. 
 (Lind is a sometime journalist, public official and polemicist currently serving as the Whitehead senior fellow at the New America Foundation. He has been a protege of leading conservatives as well as a renegade; has written for The New Republic, The New York Review of Books, The New Yorker, Harper's Magazine and The New York Times; and has used his frequent books to challenge prevailing opinion in diverse fields.) 
 ''The American Way of Strategy'' challenges not only the neoconservatives now dominant in Washington but also centrists like Michael Mandelbaum, who some months ago presented a rival treatise entitled ''The Case for Goliath.'' It defended American dominance as essential, even if unappreciated, because it provides a virtual global government, offering other nations necessary regulation, stability and security. 
 Lind's case against Goliath is forceful but repetitive, and it culminates in only a vague and facile formula for a less taxing American posture. The United States should lead ''a concert of power,'' he says, defining it as ''a kind of hegemony shared among a number of great powers.'' Uncle Sam, as concert master, would rule alone over North and Central America but combine with different nations to manage different regions -- with China, Japan and Russia in Northeast Asia; with China, Japan and India in Southeast Asia; with China, India, Russia and maybe Iran and Turkey in Central Asia; and so on. 
 If all these proud lions actually worked in concert, Lind would ask them to enforce peace and order, ''not to produce liberty, democracy and the rule of law in every country.'' But he expects them also somehow to eliminate terrorism, prevent the spread of major weapons, rescue disintegrating states, end ethnic cleansing, manage energy supplies and protect the environment. 
 To stimulate such sweeping cooperation, Lind urges that we stop isolating Russia in Europe and threatening to fight China over Taiwan. He does not say what will happen if his regional teams fall out of balance and into conflict. And he concedes that no foreseeable concert can work in the Middle East, where the ''least bad'' option now, after retreat from Iraq, is for the United States to act as an ''offshore balancer,'' arming others to preserve an equilibrium. That hardly addresses our problems if Egypt or Saudi Arabia succumbs to radicals or Iran eludes balancing. 
 Still, Lind's main theme survives his porous prescriptions. The United States alone cannot afford to police the world, never mind democratizing it. And even if prudently conserved, our relative power among nations is destined to decline. So long as jealously sovereign nations refuse to submit to a higher level of law and order, we had better learn to share the travails of living in a condition of global anarchy. For indeed, there's no point in saving America at the cost of the American way of life.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Ray Bartkus)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); COLD WAR (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); DESERT STORM (74%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); HISTORY (70%); POLITICS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (67%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (67%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%)

PERSON: Max Frankel; Michael Lind

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); IRAQ (92%); GERMANY (90%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SYRIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); SERBIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



5 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 10-01-06: THE ETHICIST; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: What Friends Owe

BYLINE: By RANDY COHEN

 BODY:
Late one night, my partner and a friend came home with a guy they met at a bar. I was asleep, but joined them for a little while before going back to bed. The next morning, my iPod was missing. I had left it in the living room on the docking station. After talking to my partner and his friend, we deduced that the third guy had taken it. Who must replace the iPod? Dave, New York
Your partner. You shouldn't have to run background checks on his guests or bolt your possessions to the floor. He is responsible for people he brings into your home. He may in turn seek compensation from the light-fingered pickup, but his ever getting the money (or the guy's right name) seems unlikely. 
 One qualification to the general rule: if his guest inadvertently breaks a lamp or drops a wine glass, your partner should replace it but not pester the guest for payment. (A generous guest will offer unprompted; a gracious host will decline.) Ordinary mishaps are a part of being a host; deliberate theft or flamboyant negligence are not.
 In the Guy de Maupassant version of this tale, your partner would labor for years to replace the iPod, only to discover that it had not been stolen, merely fallen behind the couch, leaving us to marvel at Maupassant's sense of irony and ability to foresee the digital music player.
 A friend and I were returning from Paris. An Air France ticket agent offered me a free upgrade to business class. I refused, not wanting to leave my friend in economy. Later, at the gate, she was offered the same upgrade and took it happily. Wasn't this wrong of her, especially since I had another seven hours of travel after her journey ended? Janet Goodwin, Aurora, Colo.
 It was. By unilaterally accepting this offer and abandoning you to steerage -- sorry, coach -- your friend violated an unspoken assumption of travel: don't desert your companion. The challenge of unspoken assumptions is knowing what the other person actually assumes. Thus her conduct may be insensitivity rather than an ethical transgression. She ''errs in ignorance and not in cunning,'' as Desdemona says about Cassio. (How did that work out, by the way?) And, of course, your declining the solo upgrade is no less admirable for your friend's later selfishness.
 I was going to suggest this solution: divide the time in the spacious precincts of business class between you, sacrificing camaraderie for legroom. An Air France representative, however, told me that seat sharing is forbidden. (''Very special exceptions may be made'' in unspecified circumstances : A coach passenger's legs have actually turned blue? A coach passenger's legs are particularly attractive?) The airline's justification: sharing ''may disrupt other passengers' comfort, privacy and the ambiance of that particular cabin.'' As well as a ''commitment to passenger misery,'' she did not add.
 I had a summer job at a bank where my brother and I have accounts. When I mentioned to a co-worker that my brother owed me $50, she offered to move the money from his account to mine without consulting him. I believe it was ethical to do this because records were kept of the transaction, should a dispute occur, but friends think it was wrong. Was it? Cody Cobb, Houston
 Taking money from someone's bank account without consent? I'm neither a lawyer nor an accountant. Perhaps one day your co-worker's cellmate will be able to sort this out.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Christoph Niemann)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); ETHICS (74%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (72%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (70%); TICKET AGENCIES (64%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (64%) Robberies and Thefts; Airlines and Airplanes; Banks and Banking

COMPANY: AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (54%)

TICKER: AF (PAR) (54%); AF (AMS) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%)

PERSON: Randy Cohen

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (74%) COLORADO, USA (73%) FRANCE (74%); UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



6 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: Even if Rates Don't Move, the Interest Bill Will Rise 

BYLINE: By DANIEL GROSS. 
Daniel Gross writes the ''Moneybox'' column for Slate.com.

 BODY:
MONEY has gotten more expensive. The Federal Reserve's benchmark short-term interest rate has risen to 5.25 percent, from just 1 percent in June 2004. Long-term interest rates have risen less sharply. 
 When considering the broad impact of higher rates, economists have focused mostly on how they have affected businesses and the vast real estate complex. The truism that higher interest rates function as a tax on people who hold variable debt has been particularly apparent to homeowners holding adjustable-rate mortgages.
Mark Zandi, the chief economist at Moody's Economy.com, notes that about $2 trillion in A.R.M.'s are scheduled to reset at higher rates from the beginning of 2006 to the end of 2008. If the mortgages adjust upward by an average of 2.5 percentage points, the interest payments by holders of such mortgages would be $50 billion higher in 2009 than they are today. ''That's not much in the grand scheme of a $13 trillion economy, but it is a problem for those homeowners,'' Mr. Zandi said. 
 But a much larger group of Americans is already paying a steeper price: taxpayers. After all, the United States government is the largest adjustable-rate borrower in the world. Each year, the national debt grows. Congress spends more than it is willing to raise in taxes, so it finances operations by selling debt to the public. In the last five years, the gross national debt, which includes bonds pledged to fund Social Security and other entitlements, has risen 46 percent, to about $8.5 trillion, from $5.8 trillion at the end of September 2001.
 For much of the last decade, the rising national debt didn't weigh on taxpayers much. Interest rates were generally tame in the late 1990's, and Alan Greenspan, then the Federal Reserve chairman, cut short-term rates repeatedly in 2001 and 2002 and left them at historically low levels through 2004.
 ''Net interest spending, as a percentage of the overall budget, actually was cut in half between 1995 and 2004 because interest rates were dropping,'' said Brian M. Riedl, senior budget analyst at the Heritage Foundation in Washington.
 In the early years of this decade, even as President Bush and the Republican-controlled Congress sharply increased spending, net interest payments fell -- to $184 billion in 2005 from $206 billion in 2001. 
 Now the dynamic is reversing. The government relies on short-term financing to finance its operations, and with interest rates rising, its cost has gone up. According to the Bureau of the Public Debt, the average interest rate paid by the government on public debt rose to 4.853 percent in August from 4.176 percent in the same month last year -- a 16 percent increase. As a result, the government's interest bill is expected to rise to $220 billion this year from $184 billion in 2005. 
 This extra $36 billion makes interest the fastest-growing component of federal spending, noted Adam Hughes, director for federal fiscal policy at OMB Watch in Washington. And it has aggravated the budget strife on Capitol Hill, where bitter debate has raged over spending on everything from legislators' pet projects to the war in Iraq. In fiscal 2005, the government spent more on interest than it did on Medicaid ($182 billion). Citizens Against Government Waste, an advocacy group based in Washington, identified ''earmarks'' for lawmakers' pet projects that totaled $29 billion in fiscal 2006. ''Even if Congress were to get rid of all those, it wouldn't come close to making up for the higher interest payments,'' Mr. Hughes said.
 When it comes to debt, borrowers' pain generally translates into lenders' gains. ''The people who are holders of U.S. government bonds benefit because their disposable income rises,'' said Michael Mussa, senior fellow at the Institute for International Economics. 
 But a growing proportion of today's higher interest payments are not recycled into the domestic economy. ''Since 2000, a large share of the government debt has been financed by foreign purchasers,'' noted Robert E. Scott, director of international programs at the Economic Policy Institute, based in Washington. 
 As of June, foreign agencies and institutions owned $2 trillion in United States government securities, or more than 40 percent of the government's debt that is sold in the bond market. And so the rising interest rates are contributing to rising income in China, the Persian Gulf region and Japan. In 2005, the United States government paid about $77 billion in interest to foreign creditors, according to the Commerce Department. 
 MANY analysts believe that the Federal Reserve has stopped raising short-term rates. And in recent weeks, long-term interest rates have fallen as investors have fretted about slowing growth. But because the government continues to replace lower-yielding securities issued in the last 10 years with higher-yielding debt, the government's interest cost is also expected to continue to grow rapidly. The Congressional Budget Office projects that the interest bill, after climbing nearly 20 percent this year, will rise 13.2 percent in 2007, to $240 billion, and more than 8 percent in 2008, to $270 billion. With each passing year, interest payments are likely to eat up a bigger chunk of total spending and crowd out other priorities.
 In February 2004, Mr. Greenspan advised home buyers that they would be better off with adjustable-rate mortgages than they would be with the old-fashioned, fixed-rate variety. Taxpayers now find themselves in the same boat as those who followed Mr. Greenspan's advice, said Maya MacGuineas, president of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, based in Washington. 
 ''The government pursued a strategy of borrowing short-term debt while rates were low, so the interest costs would be lower in the short run,'' she said. ''But doing so leaves the borrower in a much more vulnerable situation when rates began to rise.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Taxpayer Interest''The fastest-growing portion of the federal budget is interest payments on government debt.Graph tracks net interest paid by U.S. Government from 1996 through projected 2011.(Sources by Office of Management and Budget
 Congressional Budget Office)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); BONDS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



7 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: INVESTING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: Is the Corporate Profit Machine About to Sputter? 

BYLINE: By NORM ALSTER

 BODY:
CORPORATE profits have grown at double-digit rates for 17 consecutive quarters, helping equity markets overcome the twin poisons of long-rising interest rates and high energy prices. Currently, most Wall Street analysts are cheerily forecasting continued double-digit growth through next year. But a few economists and money managers have begun to warn that the rumbling gravy train is about to derail. 
 With the help of favorable labor costs and robust consumer spending, the profits of Standard & Poor's 500 companies more than doubled from 2001 to 2005, according to Zacks Investment Research. S.& P. 500 profits now stand at 8.6 percent of gross domestic product, a high-water mark in Commerce Department data reaching back to 1947. And analysts predict that the median S.& P. 500 company will enjoy 12.8 percent profit growth this year and 12.9 percent in 2007, according to Zacks.
Not so fast, warns Thomas M. Doerflinger, equity strategist at UBS. Noting that analysts were projecting lush technology profits just as the bubble was about to burst in 2000, Mr. Doerflinger wonders if they might be repeating their mistakes. Weakness in housing and a slowdown in consumer spending will eat into profit growth next year, he said. ''We are looking for a significant slowdown'' in profit growth, to about 4 percent in 2007, he said. 
 William W. Priest, chief executive of Epoch Investment Partners, which manages over $3 billion in mostly institutional assets, says he believes that some factors that have swelled corporate earnings in the last few years are beginning to turn. Access to cheap labor overseas, along with productivity gains in the United States that have exceeded wage gains, created the best of all worlds for big companies, Mr. Priest said. 
 ''You essentially doubled the labor pool without really changing the capital pool,'' he said. ''The developed world has benefited tremendously. Unit labor costs have declined dramatically.'' But, he warned, ''this is all changing as we speak.'' Wage gains have begun to outstrip productivity gains, and much of the advantage of cheap offshore labor has already been exploited, he said.
 Mr. Priest also expects to see increasing evidence of retrenchment by consumers. ''In the last few years, there's been an acceleration of consumption relative to income,'' he said. ''It's essentially come from the home A.T.M. machine.'' But the combination of higher interest rates and declining property values in many areas will make it harder for consumers to draw on the value of their homes.
 Over all, Mr. Priest expects profit growth to slow to 3 to 5 percent next year. 
 Even more pessimistic is Douglas Cliggott, chief investment officer at the hedge fund Race Point Asset Management. Mr. Cliggott expects profits to shrink next year by 10 to 15 percent. 
 ''We're downshifting from a very favorable environment,'' said Mr. Cliggott, who bases his forecasts on a macroeconomic model. Over the years, he said, there has been an ''almost perfect correlation'' between corporate profits and changes in four factors: household savings, the government deficit, the trade balance and business investment (which includes capital expenditures and residential construction). Increases in investment spending and government budget deficits are positive for corporate earnings, as are an improving trade balance and a decline in household savings (which generally accompanies a climb in consumer spending). 
 Since 2001, he noted, overall corporate profits have doubled, to more than $1 trillion. Contributors to that gain include a cumulative $440 billion increase in investment, a $375 billion expansion of budget deficits and a $140 billion decline in household savings. The only negative during the period was a $405 billion widening of the trade deficit. 
 But Mr. Cliggott says he sees several positive factors turning into negatives over the next year or so. Consumer spending and investment in residential construction will both drop, he said, and he expects the budget deficit to narrow. Capital spending should climb and the trade deficit should shrink, he contended but these two positives for profits will not be enough to offset the other factors.
 Because he expects rising exports to be a bright spot for the domestic economy, he favors investing in strong export industries like farm equipment and aerospace. Consumer-staple and pharmaceutical stocks, traditional defensive plays in a weakening economic environment, should also fare well, he said.
 Mr. Priest agreed that ''our exporters will do better than importers.'' He also favors farm equipment companies, along with industrial and oil service equipment businesses. He would avoid real estate, bank and mortgage companies and retailers. 
 Predictions of a worsening housing slump that eventually crimps consumer spending are at the heart of bearish profit forecasts. Already, inventories of unsold homes have been rising, along with mortgage foreclosures, and there is growing evidence of falling prices. Several homebuilders have warned of profits that will not meet forecasts. 
 But some of the more bullish market watchers do not believe that housing woes will set off a full-blown, profit-smashing recession. ''Housing activity is declining faster than we expected, but we don't expect the spillover effects to produce a general decline in G.D.P.,'' said Brian Gendreau, investment strategist at ING Investment Management, a unit of the ING Group. ''People still have a large reservoir of housing net worth they can draw on.''. 
 Steven Wieting, lead economist for domestic equities at Citigroup, is also sanguine about the possible effects of a decline in the housing market. ''Industries boom and bust simultaneously,'' he said. ''Housing could bust and other industries continue to flourish.'' 
 The consumer wealth effect from the long, sustained climb in housing prices should survive any downturn, he said. ''If we're approaching a housing decline, it follows years of wealth accumulation, and that's not going to be easily reversed.'' Still, Mr. Wieting expects a gradual deceleration in profit growth next year, to roughly 7.5 percent.
 Slowing profit growth would not necessarily mean falling stock prices, said Mr. Doerflinger of UBS. Price-to-earnings multiples have declined in recent years, he said, as profits have grown faster than stock prices. If profit growth slows, investors may be willing to pay higher multiples, allowing stocks to rise even as profit growth stalls.
 Mr. Cliggott, by contrast, says he believes a market that has been strengthened by rising earnings will fall with weakened earnings. ''Robust corporate profits have supported equity markets in the face of rising interest rates and steeply rising energy costs,'' he said. But with an anticipated 10 to 15 percent profit drop next year, he added, ''we're expecting the market to go down.''
 AT Zacks, which compiles the analysts' forecasts that now call for double-digit earnings gains through next year, the research director, Dirk Van Dijk, wonders whether the rosy numbers will come to bloom. ''There is some doubt in my mind as to the '07 numbers,'' he allowed. ''There are a lot of yellow flags out there in the macro picture.'' 
 One concern is a sharp decline in the ratio of positive to negative revisions in analysts' earnings forecasts. In late August, the ratio stood at 1.35. Since then, it has fallen to 0.80, with downgrades now exceeding upgrades for the first time all year. Mr. Van Dijk called the increasingly pessimistic ratio ''the canary in the coal mine.''
 ''I don't want to overplay the decline in the revisions ratio, but it is a trend that bears very close scrutiny going forward,'' he said. ''If we see this trend continue, it's time to be afraid -- and very afraid.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''An Earnings Surge''Corporate profits as a percentage of gross domestic product reached 8.6% in the second quarter of 2006, the highest level in the last 60 years.Graph tracks corporate profits as a percentage of G.D.P.* since 1946.Historical average: 5.9%*Corporate aftertax profits with an inventory valuation adjustment and capital consumption adjustment(Source by Bureau of Economic Analysis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (76%); OFFSHORING (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (54%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) 

COMPANY: ZACKS INVESTMENT RESEARCH INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%)

PERSON: Norm Alster; Thomas M Doerflinger; William W Priest; Douglas R Cliggott

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



8 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Happy Birthday, Bull Market. (Now, Make a Wish.)

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a financial writer at U.S. News & World Report. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
NEXT week, the bull market will celebrate its fourth birthday. This means that this bull is on the verge of accomplishing what four of the past seven could not -- surviving to at least the start of Year 5. 
 If history is any guide, that fifth year may be surprisingly robust. Since 1942, bull markets that made it that far still had enough gas in the tank to generate average fifth-year gains of 10 percent, according to Standard & Poor's. 
If that's the case, why isn't Wall Street in a more celebratory mood? 
 It may have to do with how long this bull market is taking to bring stock prices back to their previous highs. It's been more than six years since equity prices peaked, in early 2000. Although the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has rallied for four consecutive years, that benchmark is still 13 percent below its highest close in the previous bull market. As for the Nasdaq composite index, it is still down a stunning 55 percent from its record high.
 To be sure, the Dow Jones industrial average last week flirted with its all-time high close of 11,722.98, set in January 2000. But one reason that the Dow may have recovered faster is that it had a shorter path to travel. From peak to trough, the Dow fell 38 percent in the most recent bear market. Compare that with the 49 percent loss suffered by the S.& P. and the 78 percent plunge in the Nasdaq.
 Historically, the S.& P. has needed 3.3 years, on average, to return to new highs after suffering through a bear market, according to an analysis by InvesTech Research. But this time, don't be surprised if it takes significantly longer.
 For starters, the bear market that preceded this bull was no ordinary sell-off. ''It was the bursting of the largest bubble in U.S. capital markets history,'' said Robert D. Arnott, chairman of Research Affiliates, an asset management firm based in Pasadena, Calif. 
 Investors must realize that ''great bear markets have a lasting effect,'' said Jeremy Grantham, chairman of Grantham, Mayo, Van Otterloo, the asset management firm in Boston. This hangover continues to influence the market today, he said.
 What's more, not all bull markets are created equal. Many, in fact, have simply not been strong enough to return stocks to their previous highs. 
 Since September 1900, there have been 33 bull markets, according to Ned Davis Research. Of those 33, only 15 were able to establish new all-time highs. In other words, more than half of all bull markets fail to return stock prices to their prior peaks.
 Much of this depends on what kind of bull market you're dealing with. Mr. Arnott says that there are two types of bull and bear markets. First, there are cyclical bulls and bears, which run their course in the span of a few years. Then, there are longer-term, secular bull and bear markets; those can last for decades.
 Mr. Arnott noted that short-term cyclical bull markets could occur within longer-term secular bear markets. From 1966 to 1982, for instance, the broad stock market went virtually nowhere. But within that period, there were several cyclical bull and bear markets that sent stocks prices up and down.
 Many market strategists say that the current bull market is a cyclical rally stuck within a secular bear. One telltale sign is that the S.& P. has yet to revisit its record high. 
 Consider, too, the modest range of the recent four-year rally. ''While this has been one of the longest bull markets we've seen historically,'' Mr. Arnott said, ''it's also been among the weakest.'' 
 From the market trough in Oct. 9, 2002, the S.& P. 500 has climbed 72 percent. By comparison, the average bull market has returned almost twice as much from trough to peak, based on data back to 1932, according to InvesTech.
 The solid but unspectacular returns are a classic symptom of a cyclical bull within a secular bear market, said Jeffrey A. Hirsch, editor in chief of the Stock Trader's Almanac. 
 Mr. Hirsch recently studied past cyclical bulls trapped in secular bears. In those instances, the Dow rose by only around 35 percent, on average, going back to 1929. By comparison, cyclical rallies within secular bull markets have typically pushed stocks higher by 110 percent. For the record, the Dow is up by about 60 percent in the current bull market.
 The last cyclical bull market to occur within a secular bear started in October 1974, according to S.& P. I It's hard to miss the similarities between today's market and that one.
 Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at S.& P., noted that the bull that started in 1974 produced gains of 38 percent in the first 12 months, 21 percent in the next 12 months, a loss of 8 percent in the third year and 7 percent gains in the fourth and fifth.
 In the current bull run, the S.& P. 500 gained 34 percent in the first year, 8 percent in the second and 7 percent in the third. And it is up by about 12 percent so far in the fourth. 
 Mr. Stovall added that the two periods have other things in common, like ''high oil prices, concerns over inflation, fallout from an expensive and unpopular war and a not-so-popular Republican president in his second term.''
 If this is a secular bear market, how long until it goes back into hibernation? That's hard to say.
 Given the enormity of the late-90's bubble and the duration of past secular bear markets, Mr. Arnott said, it could be that, taking inflation into account, ''15 years from now, stock prices won't be materially higher than they are today.'' 
 If he's right, investors will have to rely less on capital appreciation and more on personal savings to help them reach their investment goals. ''They're going to have to save more aggressively to get ahead,'' he said. 
 Investors must also reset their overall expectations. Just because we're in a bull market right now, the stock market won't necessarily produce the 20-percent-plus annual gains to which investors grew accustomed in the late 1990's.
 ''Forget it,'' Mr. Arnott said. ''Wake up -- this is a different market.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%) 

COMPANY: INVESTECH RESEARCH (53%); GRANTHAM MAYO VAN OTTERLOO LLC (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%)

PERSON: Paul J Lim

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



9 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OPENERS: THE COUNT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 174 words

HEADLINE: Does This Mean The Housing Party Is Really Over?

BYLINE: By HUBERT B. HERRING

 BODY:
Well, there was plenty of fodder last week for Americans' favorite parlor game: trying to figure out just where this crazy housing market will bounce next -- or, more particularly, what their own house will be worth next month or next year. 
 Until now, even with one report after another suggesting that the long, heady party is really and truly over, prices for existing homes (they're like used cars, minus the stigma) kept inching up -- if they were measured year to year. But in August, for the first time since 1995, prices slipped a bit from the previous August. (New-home sales rose in August, but that counts only the number sold, and economists warned not to read too much into that.)
Prices were down in most regions, with the median price in the Northeast going to $271,000 from $282,000, the Midwest to $176,000 from $178,000 and the South to $184,000 from $189,000. Only the perennially wild West showed a gain, to $345,000 from $344,000.
 But the way things are going, homeowners out West will get theirs, too. HUBERT B. HERRING


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Home Prices, by Region''Graph tracks median sales price of existing homes since August 2005.West:$345,000Northeast: $271,000South: $184,000Midwest: $176,000(Source by National Association of Realtors)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (77%); EXISTING HOME SALES (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); SALES FIGURES (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%) National Assn of Realtors

PERSON: Hubert B Herring

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



10 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFFICE SPACE: CAREER COUCH; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Out of the Office, Into the Home

BYLINE: By MATT VILLANO. 
Workplace or career topics may be sent to ccouch@nytimes.com.

 BODY:

Q. You recently spent a day working from home, and you can't believe how much you accomplished. How do you persuade your boss to permit this arrangement on a more permanent basis?

A. It may not be easy. Jeff Davidson, president of the Breathing Space Institute, a time management consulting firm in Chapel Hill, N.C., said that unless your boss already managed a number of employees who worked from home, he probably would not embrace your suggestion right away.
 ''Corporate cultures are steeped in ritual,'' he said. ''If working from home isn't part of that ritual, you need to deal with the fact that it may take time to get what you want.''

Q. How do you know if working from home is right for you?

A. The arrangement obviously doesn't fit every job. If you operate heavy machinery or work in a laboratory, fulfilling day-to-day responsibilities outside the workplace may be hard. Sales, management and other positions that require face-to-face interaction with other people may also prove challenging if you're home alone. 
Personality is a factor, too. Dean Simpson, program manager for economic services at the Wake County human services department in Raleigh, N.C., said that only the most disciplined and organized employees benefited from working at home. ''If you are easily distracted or you are someone who procrastinates, working all by yourself isn't the best kind of work setting,'' she said. Ms. Simpson, who oversees 19 telecommuting workers and 148 employees in the office, said that she would be a ''terrible'' candidate because she would ''do things like mow grass and wash clothes all day.''

Q. Why do people ask to work from home?

A. Employees may see working from home as a solution to many difficult situations. Intolerable commutes, health problems and child care issues all rank high on this list. Some people want to get away from an office that's too loud and boisterous.
 Whatever the reason, employees must be careful how they phrase their requests. Rita Mace Walston, executive director of the Telework Consortium, an advocacy group in Herndon, Va., said that many companies considered working at home a privilege, not a right, and that employees should make their requests respectfully, without a sense of entitlement.
 And characterizing the office as unruly may not be wise, Ms. Walston said. because a boss could interpret this as an attack on the atmosphere he had created. ''Any time you complain about the workplace environment, you're putting yourself in pretty serious danger,'' she said. ''Instead, talk about work-life balance, or your state of mind from a creativity standpoint. This will get you farther in the long run.''

Q. Should you go to the boss with a formal proposal?

A. It certainly can't hurt. Pete Drozdoff, vice president for marketing at SureWest Communications, a telecommunications company in Roseville, Calif., says that a proposal offers a great way to summarize your goals and to explain how you planned to make working from home a success.
 These documents should include detailed information about the physical layout of the home office, how you plan to be accessible and methods for evaluating productivity.
 Proposals should also include a timetable; Mr. Drozdoff says gradual transitions and pilot programs are the best way to make bosses comfortable with change.
 Diana Gil-Osorio, director of public relations at the Ritz-Carlton at Half Moon Bay, Calif., learned this in July, when she submitted a proposal to work from her apartment in San Francisco, 30 miles away. The proposal stated that Ms. Gil-Osorio would convert a second bedroom into an office and that she would continue to spend at least two days a week in Half Moon Bay for meetings. Her bosses accepted on the spot.
 ''They were very cool about it,'' she said, noting that her old workspace at the hotel is now shared by two other employees. ''What they liked was that the move wasn't all or nothing, and that one simple change seemed to benefit everyone.''

Q. Are there downsides to working from home?

A. Like any decision in the workplace, the choice to telecommute has its risks. Lisa A. Mainiero, co-author of ''The Opt-Out Revolt: Why People Are Leaving Companies to Create Kaleidoscope Careers'' (Davies-Black Publishing, 2006), said that many employees feared that if they removed themselves from the day-to-day office environment, they might be passed over when it was time for raises and promotions.
 ''With many bosses there's a definite penalty for employees who aren't in the office every day to show what they can do,'' said Ms. Mainiero, a management professor at Fairfield University in Connecticut. ''You've heard the saying, 'out of sight, out of mind'? This is the modern-day application of that.''
 Employees who work at home may also miss out on the everyday activities and banter that make employees feel that they are part of a team. While this camaraderie is secondary to business goals, Holly Ross, director of programs for the Nonprofit Technology Enterprise Network, a business services provider in San Francisco, said it was an important part of the work experience that could not be found at home. ''There's something about being a few feet away from someone and chatting about last night's 'Project Runway' episode that you don't get when you're alone,'' said Ms. Ross, who occasionally works from home. ''You can have a nice working relationship if you work remotely, but it's just never the same.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Chris Reed)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUTING (91%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (90%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (78%); SALES MANAGEMENT (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (72%); CORPORATE CULTURE (70%); CHILD CARE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (58%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



11 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 8559 words

HEADLINE: The Inside Agitator

BYLINE: By Matt Bai. 
Matt Bai, a contributing writer for the magazine, is at work on a book about the future of the Democratic Party.

 BODY:
Not all states are equal on an election map, and Alaska is one of those less populous states -- like Kansas or Idaho or Alabama -- that national Democrats almost never bother to visit. For one thing, just getting there presents a logistical ordeal: the journey from Washington takes as long as it would to reach, say, Nigeria, and even then you sometimes need a hydroplane to get around. And more to the point, there aren't a whole lot of people to see once you get there. Registered Republicans outnumber Democrats by a margin of 2 to 1 in oil-crazed Alaska, which hasn't sent a Democrat to the House or Senate in more than 30 years. To put it another way, there were more Democrats in Central Park for the Dave Matthews concert a few years back than there are in the entire state of Alaska -- all 656,000 square miles of it. 
It seemed somewhat bizarre, then, when Howard Dean, the chairman of the Democratic National Committee, chose to make the long odyssey to Alaska at the end of May, near what was the beginning of one of the most intense and closely contested national election campaigns in memory, when every other Democrat in Washington was talking about potentially decisive states like Ohio, Pennsylvania and Connecticut. It was also strange that no one in Democratic Washington seemed to know he was going. Although I had been following Dean closely for months, I found out about the trip accidentally and invited myself along -- an intrusion that Dean seemed merely to tolerate. We met up first in Las Vegas, where he was making appearances with Harry Reid, the Senate minority leader. Dean, who enjoys his image as an unpretentious New Englander, is given to finding his own flights on discount Web sites, so it's sometimes hard for even his own staff to track his itinerary. On the morning we left for Alaska, Dean went missing for a good half-hour. It turned out that he was in the business center of the MGM Grand, where he had been trying to figure out how to print his boarding pass but somehow ended up in an impromptu game of online backgammon with a guy who claimed to be in China.
 Touching down in Anchorage, we were greeted by Jonathan Teeters, a 25-year-old former offensive lineman at the University of Idaho who had been hired to help the state party begin to organize Democrats. It took less than 10 minutes, as Teeters drove us through a pounding rainstorm to the state headquarters, for Dean, seated in front, to unleash his usual brand of havoc on a state unaccustomed to it. First, he absently asked Teeters what kind of radio interviews he would be doing during his 24-hour stay and was told that he was booked on the local Air America affiliate, the only liberal radio option in town. This is what party chairmen get paid to do -- rally the faithful, collect their money and urge them to vote.
 ''Bull,'' Dean snapped, using a slightly more elongated version of the term.
 ''Huh?'' Chris Canning, Dean's personal aide, suddenly looked up from a loose-leaf binder. He seemed to think he had misheard.
 ''I'm not going to do that,'' Dean replied firmly, craning his neck to address Canning in the back seat. ''I didn't come all the way up here just to talk to people who already agree with us. I want to talk to everyone else. I'm fine with doing Air America, but we have to do something else too. Isn't there some conservative show we can do?'' Teeters warned that the few right-wing shows in town could get nasty for the chairman. ''If you can set something else up too, great,'' Dean said with finality. ''Otherwise, I won't do Air America.'' 
 Then Dean wanted to know how many organizers the state party now had on the ground, and Teeters told him there was just one: Teeters himself. The D.N.C. created his job -- along with a position for a communications director -- last year as part of Dean's signature program, known as the 50-state strategy. Under this program, the national party is paying for hundreds of new organizers and press aides for the state parties, many of which have been operating on the edge of insolvency. The idea is to hire mostly young, ambitious activists who will go out and build county and precinct organizations to rival Republican machines in every state in the country. ''We're going to be in places where the Democratic Party hasn't been in 25 years,'' Dean likes to say. ''If you don't show up in 60 percent of the country, you don't win, and that's not going to happen anymore.''
 In paying for two new staffers, Dean had, virtually overnight, doubled the size of Alaska's beleaguered state party, which used to consist of only an executive director and a part-time fund-raiser. But now, as Dean considered the vastness of the state's landscape, he decided that one organizer wasn't enough. ''In most states, we have three or four,'' Dean said, thinking out loud. ''Seems like you should really have more. We should be able to find that money in the budget.'' 
 That night, after meeting with Dean at the sad little storefront office that houses the state party, Alaska's party chairman, Jake Metcalfe, announced to 400 assembled Democrats at a fund-raiser that Dean had just promised to hire an additional organizer for the state. The ballroom erupted in grateful applause as Dean sat there beaming. The members of his staff, gently rolling their eyes, began calling back to Washington, warning the political staff that they would need to find the money for yet another salary in, of all places, Alaska. 
 In just a few hours, Dean had nicely demonstrated why so many leading Democrats in Washington wish he would spend even more time in Alaska -- preferably hiking the tundra for a few months, without a cellphone. It's not that Democrats in Congress don't like the idea of building better organizations in the party's forgotten rural outposts. Everyone in Democratic politics agrees, in principle, that party organizations in states like Alaska could use help from Washington to become competitive again, as opposed to the rusted-out machines they have become. But doing so, at this particular moment and in this particular way, would seem to suck away critical resources at a time when every close House and Senate race has the potential to decide who will control the nation's post-election agenda, and when the party should, theoretically, be focused on mobilizing its base voters -- the kind of people who live in big cities and listen religiously to Air America. 
 It's true that adding a second organizer in Alaska will cost the national party only a modest sum, maybe $35,000 this year, but that same money could pay the salaries for canvassers in Pennsylvania or Connecticut, where a few thousand votes could mean the difference between swearing in Speaker Hastert or Speaker Pelosi next January. Overall, Dean's investment in state parties could cost the D.N.C. as much as $8 million this year, every dime of which could be crucial when you consider that the Republican National Committee says it will pour as much as $60 million into local races to defend its Congressional majorities. (The D.N.C. has pledged to spend $12 million on this fall's races.) With the president's approval ratings stuck around 40 percent, and polls suggesting that the Democrats may have a real chance of rolling back 12 years of Republican rule, numerous Democratic insiders are privately and, at times, publicly deriding the 50-state strategy as an indulgence that could cost them their best and last opportunity to sweep away the Bush era, once and for all.
 This conflict between the party's chairman and its elected leaders (who tried mightily to keep local activists from giving him the job in the first place) might be viewed as a petty disagreement. But in fact, it represents the deepening of a rift that has its roots in the 2004 presidential campaign -- a rift that raises the fundamental issue of what role, if any, a political party should play in 21st-century American life. Dean ran for president, and then for chairman, as an outsider who would seize power from the party's interest-group-based establishment and return it to the grass roots. And while he has gamely tried to play down his differences with elected Democrats since becoming chairman, it seems increasingly obvious that Dean is pursuing his own agenda for the party -- an agenda that picks up, in many ways, where his renegade presidential campaign left off. Now, at power lunches and private meetings, perplexed Washington Democrats, the kind of people who have lorded over the party apparatus for decades, find themselves pondering the same bewildering questions. What on earth can Howard Dean be thinking? Does he really care about winning in November, or is he after something else?
 The mere fact that Democrats would consider a ''50-state strategy'' to be novel -- as if a national party might reasonably aspire to something less -- says volumes about the rapid deterioration of the party that was, for most of the last century, America's dominant political force. Back when Democrats were the established majority, the state parties were run by bosses who doled out jobs and delivered votes, while the national party, functioning as a subsidiary of whoever happened to occupy the Oval Office, worried about electing presidents. For decades, the party claimed a sizable majority of the nation's governors, senators and congressmen, and in every one of the states where it controlled those seats, there was a centralized organization -- a party ''infrastructure,'' in the parlance of today's activists -- whose job it was to recruit candidates and make sure voters got to the polls.
 All that began to change with the social movements of the 1960's and 70's, which redefined the Democratic Party, in the minds of many rural voters, as mostly a coalition of urban blacks and high-minded intellectuals. From the Deep South up through the populist Plains, voters began abandoning Democratic candidates at the polls, and the old state machines found themselves out of power and starved for patronage. Slowly, the parties in these states atrophied, laying off staff members and allowing their network of local volunteers to dwindle. ''We were on the verge of extinction, pretty much,'' Barry Rubin, the executive director of the Nebraska Democratic Party, told me recently. 
 When Dean took over the D.N.C. last year, he sent assessment teams, made up of veteran field organizers and former state party officials, to every state. A typical assessment report on one rural state -- I was allowed to see the report only on the condition that I not name the state involved -- bluntly stated that its local activists were ''aging'' and that its central committee was ''dysfunctional.'' In most states, there were hardly any county or precinct organizations to speak of. More than half the states lacked any communications staff, meaning that no one was there to counter the Republican talking points that passed from Washington to the state parties to the local media with a kind of automated precision. 
 For the Democrats, winning presidential elections came to mean doing so without any help from the South or West, and that, in turn, meant cobbling together a relatively small number of so-called battleground states rather than running a truly national campaign. The D.N.C. quit doing much of anything in conservative rural states, and the party's presidential candidates didn't bother stopping by on their way to more promising terrain. Every four years, the national party became obsessed with ''targeting'' -- that is, focusing all its efforts on 15 or 20 winnable urban states and pounding them with expensive TV ads. The D.N.C.'s defining purpose was to raise the money for those ads. The national party became, essentially, a service organization for a few hundred wealthy donors, who treated it like their private political club. 
 None of this was much on Howard Dean's mind when he set about running for president in 2003 with drab notions of health-care reform and a balanced budget; by the time he made his infamous ''scream'' speech in Des Moines a year later, however, Dean had become a folk hero for marginalized liberals. How this happened has been largely misunderstood. Dean has been credited with inciting an Internet-driven rebellion against his own party, but, in fact, he was more the accidental vehicle of a movement that was already emerging. The rise of Moveon.org, blogs and ''meet-ups'' was powered to some extent by the young, tech-savvy activists on both coasts who were so closely associated in the public mind with Dean's campaign. But the fast-growing Internet community was also a phenomenon of liberal enclaves in more conservative states, where disenchanted Democrats, mostly baby boomers, had long felt outnumbered and abandoned. Meet-ups for Dean drew overflow crowds in Austin, Tex., and Birmingham, Ala.; what the Web did was to connect disparate groups of Democratic voters who didn't live in targeted states and who had watched helplessly as Republicans overran their communities. These Democrats opposed the war in Iraq, but they were also against a party that seemed to care more about big donors and swing states than it did about them. Attracted to Dean's fiery defiance of the Washington establishment, these voters adopted him as their cause before he had ever heard of a blog. 
 ''What our campaign was about, not that I set out to make it this way, was empowering people,'' Dean told me recently. ''The 'you have the power' stuff -- that just arose spontaneously when I realized what incredible potential there was for people to get active who had given up on the political process because they didn't think either party was helping them.'' 
 Over the course of the campaign, Dean turned into an apostle, in politics, of the economic concept of ''disintermediation'' -- the idea that, in the Internet age, voters could connect with candidates, and with one another, without the party acting as the conduit. In a sense, this is what his candidacy was all about. He still believed, though, that only a strong national party could mobilize voters on Election Day. At the Democratic convention in Boston, six months after he dropped out of the presidential race, he met with frustrated delegations from 18 ''untargeted'' states, meaning that the national party and its candidate, John Kerry, had completely ignored them. Dean was appalled. ''The best window we have to talk to Democrats, the time when they pay the most attention, is in the presidential campaign,'' Dean told me, ''and we were just saying to the people of those 18 states, 'We're not interested in you.' You cannot be a national party if you say that to anybody. Anybody.''
 It didn't take long, after the election, for a new band of Democratic outsiders -- some inspired by Dean's campaign, others not -- to begin asserting themselves on the local level. In Maryland, Terry Lierman, a venture capitalist who had been one of Dean's campaign-finance chairmen, ran for state party chairman, despite having had no previous involvement in local Democratic politics, and won. In North Carolina, Jerry Meek, a 35-year-old lawyer, took over the state party on a promise of re-energizing county organizations, even though both the governor and the state's leading national figure, John Edwards, strongly backed an inside candidate. Colorado and Arkansas, too, rejected incumbent chairmen in favor of obscure newcomers. In Texas, Fred Baron, a trial lawyer and Democratic contributor, established a privately financed effort to rebuild the Texas state party from the ground up -- without the party's consent.
 Meanwhile, the bloggers who supported Dean were taking up the same cause, inciting sporadic local rebellions. Chris Bowers, an influential blogger on the leftist site MyDD.com, demanded that the national party focus less on targeting races and more on recruiting candidates to run in every Congressional district in America. Bowers's call for individual activists to overwhelm and rebuild their local parties became a rallying point for the emerging Netroots party-reform movement. Setting his own example, Bowers got himself elected the captain of his local precinct in Philadelphia's 27th Ward and then won a seat on the party's state committee.
 The question for Dean was how to harness and aggregate this state-by-state uprising that he had, by example, helped to create. Immediately after dropping out of the presidential race, he formed a political action committee called Democracy for America, whose mission was to raise money for ''progressive'' candidates seeking local offices, from mayoral and Congressional seats down to the local water board. This was revolt on a small scale, however, and Dean continued to ponder some grander strategy. He admits now that at the time he considered forming a third party, deciding, ultimately, that such ventures never went far in American politics. 
 Like Ronald Reagan, whose activist insurgency during the 1976 primaries failed to topple the Republican president, Gerald Ford, Dean might have begun work instantly on the next presidential race, building on his support among the Democratic base. But unlike Reagan, Dean had always exhibited more passion for campaigning among the grass roots than he did for the prospect of actually being the nation's president; he seemed less focused on changing the country than he did on changing the party. And the best way to do that, he concluded, was to run for chairman. 
 Dean, the celebrity candidate in a crowded if rather underwhelming field, campaigned on what seemed like a brazenly political promise to lavish spoils on the forgotten state parties, whose local activists held most of the votes for the chairmanship. The outcome was never much in doubt, although some skeptical Democrats refused to support him. Metcalfe, the Alaska chairman, told me that he supported Simon Rosenberg, a party strategist. ''Simon was saying, 'I don't know if I can fund all the states,' and I thought that was honest,'' Metcalfe said. ''Dean said he would give money to all the states, and I thought, That's not going to happen -- not out here. I thought I was being realistic. He proved me wrong.''
 There were awkward moments during Dean's first months in Washington, early in 2005, when he found himself working among the party leaders he had repeatedly maligned. In his first official visit to the newly renovated D.N.C. building, Dean was greeted in the lobby by his predecessor, Terry McAuliffe, a close friend of the Clintons and probably the most gifted fund-raiser in the party's history, whom Dean's supporters had long pilloried as the personification of a party run by hacks and obsessed with corporate money. McAuliffe, a man of maddeningly good cheer, pointed to the new wall-size glass building dedication in the lobby, which featured McAuliffe's name at the very top, followed by a list of contributors. ''Now, Howard,'' he said, ''don't you go chiseling that down.'' 
 Not long after, Dean sat down with the party's Congressional leaders, Harry Reid and Nancy Pelosi, who had tried, ineptly and with almost comical desperation, to find a candidate who could stop him from becoming chairman. Reid and Pelosi promised to work with Dean, but they asked him to resist speaking out on key policy positions and acting as if he were the party's public face. In other words, Dean would be doing everyone in Washington a favor if he would just stay out of sight and raise money. 
 The latter goal proved challenging. The truth was that neither Dean nor the aides he brought with him from the presidential campaign knew much about the inner workings of the national party, and some of what they assumed they understood, based on contempt for anything they perceived to be the status quo, turned out to be more complicated than it first appeared. Determined to break the grip of millionaires on the party apparatus, Dean's team came into the D.N.C. with a plan to raise huge sums of money online, as Dean had done during the presidential campaign. Dean didn't bother reaching out to many of the party's top contributors, who were as suspicious of him as he was of them. But getting small-dollar donors excited about an established party proved a far more arduous task than getting them excited about an insurgent campaign. The situation grew perilous until, several months into his term, Dean relented and brought in one of McAuliffe's old acolytes, Jody Trapasso, to get the fund-raising operation in order. Trapasso introduced Dean to the big spenders, pushing him to devote a few hours of every day to making calls until the checks started rolling in.
 Dean was discovering that he needed to find some Washington insiders to trust, after all -- and he found them in what seemed an unlikely quarter. In his primary campaign in 2003, Dean struck up a friendship with Tina Flournoy, a well-respected operative who worked with Al Gore and Joe Lieberman during the 2000 presidential race and who now held a senior position at the American Federation of Teachers, one of the party's most influential unions. Flournoy was also a charter member of an informal dinner clique whose members referred to themselves, good-naturedly, as the Colored Girls. The core group included several African-American women who had reached the highest echelons of Democratic politics. Donna Brazile, the veteran organizer who managed Gore's presidential campaign, was a regular; so were Minyon Moore, a consultant who worked in the Clinton White House; Yolanda Caraway, a public-relations specialist; and Leah Daughtry, who was McAuliffe's chief of staff (and who was retained in that job by Dean). Guest speakers at their dinners frequently included probable presidential candidates and top members of Congress. During the race for chairman, Flournoy brought Dean in as well, and he quickly clicked with the group. 
 Dean tapped Flournoy to run his transition team, and although she later returned to her job at the teachers' union, it is now common knowledge among Democrats in Washington that few big decisions are made at the D.N.C. without Flournoy's approval. The Colored Girls, as a whole, are unusually influential with Dean. It's an odd pairing, given that Dean governed one of the whitest states in the country, but what Dean and these women share is resentment, sometimes subtle and sometimes not, of the elite Washington Democrats who have always run the national party. Activists like Flournoy and Brazile have attained star status in the party, but they have never thought of themselves as insiders. This is partly because they are black women in a party dominated by white men -- men who often seem to prize them more as symbols of diversity than for their expertise. But it is also because the women came up in Democratic politics as local field operatives -- that is, as young organizers who knocked on doors, principally for Jesse Jackson -- in an era when all of the power in the party was concentrated in the hands of the Washington consultants who made TV ads and polled the electorate. Dean came to Washington vowing to take power from the insiders and give it, instead, to ground-level activists. ''That's our loyalty to Dean,'' Brazile says. ''He gets it.''
 With help from Flournoy and the others, Dean cultivated an outsiders' culture inside the D.N.C. building. (It is more than symbolic that Dean himself never moved to Washington; he stays at the Capitol Hill Suites a few days a week before heading back to Burlington, Vt.) Dean's political staff hails largely from the state organizations, rather than from Washington; his political director, Pam Womack, formerly ran the Virginia party and the National Governors Association. Top Washington reporters and senior aides on Capitol Hill frequently complain that they now have trouble getting their calls to the D.N.C. returned, while state activists rave about the new responsiveness at headquarters.
 Flournoy also introduced Dean to the pollster Cornell Belcher, who became a constant fixture inside Dean's D.N.C. Belcher, a deep thinker and jazz aficionado who wears suit coats with unlaced Converse sneakers, had been an outsider, too, in the sense that he didn't fit into the capital's pinstriped culture and wasn't well known before Dean started taking him to meetings on the Hill. In public appearances, Dean almost always refers proudly to the fact that he has retained a ''37-year-old African-American pollster'' to shake up the staid Washington crowd. In fact, the main theme of Belcher's work concerns the white middle-class men and women who have deserted the Democrats in recent years. These voters care more about their faith and the character of their communities than they do about individual issues, Belcher says, and Democrats do better with rural and small-town voters when they frame their positions as values rather than as policy prescriptions. This is not an entirely new insight, but to Dean it is critically important. In his mind, it means that any voter in any state can be a Democrat, if only you bother to talk to him, and if only you make the right kind of argument.
 The ultimate manifestation of this philosophy, of course, is the 50-state strategy, under which, for the first time, the national party has begun directly financing the staff at all but a few state headquarters. It's probably fair to say that if there hadn't been a quagmire in Iraq or a Hurricane Katrina -- if the White House's political fortunes hadn't imploded over the last year -- the 50-state strategy would not have aroused much opposition among Washington Democrats. It was only when they realized that they actually had a chance to take back the House, and maybe the Senate too, that Democratic leaders began to ask, with increasing urgency, what it was that Dean was doing with all the party's money.
 This fall, the question of who will control Congress is likely to come down to about 40 Congressional districts and some dozen states with close Senate races, including such perennial battlegrounds as Pennsylvania, Ohio and Missouri. Candidates raise most of their campaign funds themselves, but they rely on additional money from Washington to pay for voter-turnout programs and last-minute TV ads. Each party has three separate entities to raise and disburse those dollars: a committee for Senate races, a second committee for House campaigns and the national party headquarters. 
 For Democrats, the fund-raising environment has improved over the last two years, as Bush has blundered from one legislative or foreign-policy disaster to another and as Democratic donors have seen the prospect of controlling at least one house of Congress -- a notion that seemed unthinkable in 2004 -- become a possibility. The Democrats who lead their party's Senate and House campaign committees, Senator Chuck Schumer of New York and Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, respectively, have done their parts to make the party competitive. The Democratic Senate committee, which narrowly outperformed its Republican counterpart in 2004, has opened up an even wider margin in this election cycle. The Democratic House committee, which raised only half as much as the G.O.P.'s committee did two years ago, has closed that gap somewhat and, at last count, had virtually the same amount in the bank as its rival. Over at the D.N.C., however, it's a very different story. In 2004, the D.N.C., under McAuliffe, actually raised slightly more money than the Republican National Committee. Since Dean has taken over, however, the R.N.C. has taken an almost 2-to-1 lead in fund-raising, and going into the fall campaign it had more than $39 million stashed away, compared with just over $11 million for the Democrats. For Schumer and Emanuel, this discrepancy between the two parties is like a train coming down the track, and they're the ones sitting in its path. The R.N.C. will dump tens of millions of dollars into individual House and Senate races in the closing weeks, through TV ads and get-out-the-vote operations, and Democrats won't be able to counter it.
 In a city rife with unchecked egos, few politicians exhibit the kind of unbridled self-assuredness for which both Emanuel and Schumer are known; to call the two of them pushy would be like calling Tom Cruise excitable. Emanuel, a triathlete who was Bill Clinton's deputy chief of staff and enforcer, speaks in violent bursts of shrapnel, profanities flying in all directions. Schumer, like his native Brooklyn, can be, by turns, charming or downright dangerous, depending on which route delivers him faster to his destination. 
 Before this midterm election-year began, but not long after Dean became party head, Emanuel and Schumer decided that if Dean wasn't going to raise anywhere near as much money as his rivals at Republican headquarters, then he ought to at least give them whatever resources he could muster. They went to work on Dean, pleading with him to transfer as much as $10 million to the two committees to help them respond to the Republican TV barrage. Emanuel told anyone who would listen that back in 1994, when Republicans sensed a similarly historic mood swing in the electorate, the R.N.C. kicked in something like $20 million in cash to its Congressional committees. (This argument was impressive, but not exactly true; the R.N.C. spent roughly that much on federal and local races combined in 1994, and little, if any, of that money went directly to the committees themselves.) Dean categorically refused to ante up. Having opposed the very idea of targeting a small number of states and races, he wasn't about to divert money from his long-term strategy -- what he calls the ''unsexy'' work of rebuilding the party's infrastructure -- to pay for a bunch of TV ads in Ohio. He wanted to win the 2006 elections as much as anyone, Dean told them, and he intended to help where he could. But Democratic candidates and their campaign committees were doing just fine on fund-raising, and the party couldn't continue giving in to the temptation to spend everything it had on every election cycle -- no matter how big a checkbook the Republicans were waving around. 
 For Schumer, Emanuel and their allies, this rejection was irritating enough. When they heard the stories of how Dean was actually spending the party's cash, however, it was almost more than they could take. Dean was paying for four organizers in Mississippi, where there wasn't a single close House race, but he had sent only three new hires to Pennsylvania, which had a governor's race, a Senate campaign and four competitive House races. Emanuel said he was all for expanding the party's reach into rural states -- roughly half the House seats he was targeting were in states like Texas, Indiana and Kentucky, after all -- but he wanted the D.N.C. to focus on individual districts that Democrats could actually win, as opposed to just spreading money around aimlessly. The D.N.C. was spending its money not only in Alaska and Hawaii, but in the U.S. Virgin Islands as well. Democratic insiders began to rail against this wacky and expensive 50-state plan. ''He says it's a long-term strategy,'' Paul Begala, the Democratic strategist, said during an appearance on CNN in May. ''What he has spent it on, apparently, is just hiring a bunch of staff people to wander around Utah and Mississippi and pick their nose.'' 
 The disagreement with Emanuel and Schumer frayed Dean's already fragile detente with Washington's Democratic elite. Since coming to Washington, Dean had worked hard to forge a level of trust with Congressional leaders, subjugating some of his more combative impulses. In particular, he had formed what he thought of as a genuine friendship with Harry Reid. Nonetheless, the party's elected leaders and their legions of consultants remained uneasy about Dean. They suspected, correctly, that he strongly sympathized with outside forces -- militant bloggers, disillusioned donors, Moveon.org -- that were fomenting rebellion at the grass roots. It didn't help that Dean's younger brother, Jim, a onetime salesman who had taken over the PAC Dean started, Democracy for America, was out there proselytizing for insurgent candidates like Paul Hackett, whom Schumer eventually muscled out of a Senate primary in Ohio, and Ned Lamont, who upended Joe Lieberman in Connecticut. While campaign laws prohibited the Dean brothers from coordinating their activities, Washington Democrats assumed that Jim Dean's job was to carry out the chairman's subversive wishes. 
 In separate conversations, Reid and Pelosi each asked Dean -- Reid in his quiet way, Pelosi more stridently -- to send some money to the two campaign committees. Dean rebuffed them too. But he did promise that the D.N.C. would help with get-out-the vote campaigns. Emanuel and Schumer then began pressing Dean for a specific field plan -- that is, a blueprint for how the D.N.C. would spend money on mobilizing voters, and where. The argument finally exploded during a meeting in May among Dean, Emanuel and Schumer in Dean's third-floor office at the D.N.C. Emanuel told Dean that the 50-state strategy was a waste of money; Dean shot back that winning elections wasn't only about TV ads. Emanuel wanted to know what Dean was doing to help in California's 50th district, where voters were about to hold a special election. When Dean said he had organizers on the ground, Emanuel erupted. ''Who?'' he demanded. ''Tell me their names!'' Emanuel, who had a vote at the Capitol, stormed out of the meeting, cursing as he walked down the hall. 
 By now, the situation had as much to do with clashing egos as it did with the elections. ''The issue here is not our field plan,'' Dean told me. ''The issue is an issue of control. I'm the new guy on the block, and they thought they were going to get me writing the check.'' For his part, Emanuel, who had been a pivotal adviser in several national elections (he was the model for the character Josh Lyman in ''The West Wing''), seemed annoyed that Dean wouldn't defer to Democrats with more experience. That Dean raised money by talking about the closeness of the 2006 elections -- and then spent much of that money in states that had nothing to do with the midterms -- made Emanuel, whose office sits a floor below Dean's in the D.N.C. building, want to reach through the tile ceiling and throttle him. ''I'm for a long-term strategy,'' Emanuel told me, ''but I don't see how you have a long-term strategy if you take a historic election and walk away from it.'' 
 What was remarkable about this fight, as it dragged on throughout the summer, was just how public it became, and the extent to which it seemed to be pulling influential Democrats into its vortex. Bren Simon, a wealthy Democratic patron from Indiana who has entertained virtually every leading Democrat at her second home in Washington, told me that she warned Emanuel and Schumer that she wouldn't write them any more checks if they didn't stop fighting Dean over his 50-state strategy. Then there was the morning early in the summer when Brazile ran into Emanuel on the steps of the D.N.C. building and started loudly lecturing him about his attacks on the chairman, in full view of party employees. Emanuel protested that he just wanted to win back the House. Two of the Democratic Party's leading strategists -- one who had helped run the White House, the other who had managed a presidential campaign -- stood there barking at each other on the street.
 Underneath this clash of field plans and alpha personalities lay a deeper philosophical divide over how you go about rebuilding a party -- which was really a dispute about cause and effect. Did you expand the party by winning elections, or did you win elections by expanding the party? Most party insiders had long put their faith in elections first, arguing that the best way to broaden the base of the party was to win more races. Schumer said as much in a written statement that his spokesman forwarded to me in response to my questions about his differences with Dean. ''Our long-term goal is the same -- a strong Democratic Party,'' Schumer stated. ''But we'' -- meaning he and Emanuel -- ''believe that nothing does more to further that goal in 2006, 2008 and beyond than taking back the House and Senate so that we can implement a Democratic platform.'' 
 Recent history, though, would seem to undercut this theory. In the 1990's, the Democrats won two presidential elections behind a popular leader, and yet the party didn't grow. In fact, Democrats lost ground at every level of government except the White House and cemented their position as the party of coastal states. Steadily investing in political activity on the local level, as Republicans have done for years, seems to Dean and his allies a more realistic way for Democrats to expand the electoral map than simply trying, every four years, to piece together the same elusive majorities. Of course, every Democrat in Washington says he's for expanding the party's efforts beyond the familiar 18 or 20 battleground states, but only Dean, among his party's leaders, has been willing to argue that there is a choice involved, that you cannot actually invest for the long term unless you're willing to forgo some short-term priorities.
 It takes courage, Dean told me, to try something new in the face of failure, which is why Washington Democrats were resisting his plan. ''I think politicians are incredibly risk-averse, especially legislating politicians,'' he said. ''This is like deciding to go to a psychiatrist -- the risk of staying the same has to be greater than the risk of changing. And right now, in the history of the party, that's exactly where we are. The risk of doing nothing, the same old thing, is enormous. The risk of trying something new is much smaller. The risk of the 50-state strategy is much smaller than if we continue to do what we've been doing.''
 But you can accept Dean's premise and still wonder whether his 50-state strategy is really the best way to go about building the party. Even some Democrats who support Dean's larger vision have doubts about whether he has built enough accountability into his model for financing state parties. Republicans, as I saw firsthand in Ohio during the 2004 campaign, demand certain metrics of their local organizers. Field workers are expected to sign up so many new voters, or knock on so many doors, by a given date, and people who don't meet their quotas and deadlines can find themselves replaced -- even if they're volunteers. Republican staffs in the states are required to take part in an unrelenting succession of conference calls with Washington. 
 By contrast, Jonathan Teeters, the 25-year-old activist I met in Anchorage, told me that he wished he spoke more often with his superiors at the D.N.C. ''It's kind of an as-needed thing,'' he said. ''As far as I can tell, they trust me to get it done. As long as I'm staying in contact, and as long as we're having success, that's how they know we're getting it done.'' When I asked Teeters how he knew if he was having success, he mentioned having attracted several hundred people to ''Democratic reunion'' barbecues across the state. ''The first thing we have to do is create this energy, so people know we're here and we're active,'' he said. 
 Dean has no illusions that the 50-state strategy will succeed in every state. ''They're going to make terrible mistakes -- I know that,'' Dean said. ''You never make changes without people making mistakes.'' He said he had visited 46 states as chairman, and each time he goes into a state, he gets some sense of the progress on the ground. 
 Unlike past chairmen, who mostly traveled to see donors and do some interviews, Dean spends a fair amount of time visiting party offices and mingling with grass-roots activists. His trips to more rural, conservative states, however, the kind of places where a sizable segment of voters go to church and follow Nascar, also raise some complicated issues for his fellow Democrats. Dean is treated like a Beatle by rank-and-file activists who have rarely seen a party leader in their midst, but for the rest of the country, Dean is that lefty who howled on national TV. Some Democratic governors and candidates have avoided Dean when he has been in town, for fear that their opponents would portray them as extremists. Which underscores the peculiar situation of Dean and his 50-state plan: he is the one guy in Washington determined to deliver the Democratic message to every part of the country, but as it turns out, he is also a guy from whom much of America doesn't want to hear it.
 It's not that Dean doesn't try his damnedest to make himself palatable to culturally conservative voters. Acting on the advice of Cornell Belcher, his young pollster, he has taken to framing his positions in terms of faith and values, sometimes so transparently that it can make you wince. In Las Vegas, I heard Dean, who is not known to be a religious man, say to a Latino audience, ''I don't expect the church to come out for gay marriage, but I do expect that we could say on an issue like this, 'What would Jesus do?' Equal rights under the law is not something that can be abridged by the Democratic Party, because it's really the law under Jesus Christ.'' The audience stared at him a little blankly, as you might stare at your mechanic if he rolled out from underneath your car and suddenly started speaking Latin.
 Fairly or not, Dean has come to embody a species of Democrat that a lot of Americans of both parties find off-putting: the 60's antiwar liberal, reborn with a laptop and a Prius. On the day we landed in Anchorage, Tony Knowles, the former Democratic governor of the state, had just announced that he would run to reclaim the post. This was exciting news for Dean, since he and Knowles had served as governors together, and the two men would be attending the fund-raiser that night. But while we were at the party headquarters, the state party's executive director cautioned Dean, gingerly, that he should probably avoid getting too close to Knowles in public or saying nice things about him from the lectern. ''I think he'd prefer to distance himself from the national party as much as he can,'' the executive director, Mike Coumbe, said. 
 Later that night, at the fund-raiser, I approached Knowles and asked him if it was true that he felt he needed to put some space between himself and his old friend. ''I think they're about to introduce me,'' Knowles said, glancing helplessly toward the front of the room. ''I do want to answer your question.'' But he was already backing away.
 When dean and I last spoke, in August, I wondered aloud if the entire 50-state program wasn't, in a very basic way, inconsistent with the larger philosophy that guided his 2004 campaign. If Dean believed in disintermediation, then why was he spending so much money to strengthen the intermediaries? Weren't the state parties essentially just middlemen between the voters and the Democratic National Committee? What Dean seemed to be creating was a multilevel field organization modeled after the political machines of the 20th century rather than a new party that fostered direct communication between local activists and their leaders in Washington.
 ''That would be true if we thought we had to be centralized,'' Dean replied, raising an index finger. In fact, he went on, the Democratic Party needed to be decentralized, so that grass-roots Democrats built relationships with their state parties but had little to do with Washington at all. ''State parties are not the intermediaries,'' he said. ''If I get them trained right, they're the principals.''
 In other words, I suggested, he was talking about ''devolving'' the national Democratic Party, in the same way that Reagan and other conservative ideologues had always talked about devolving the federal government and returning power to the states. ''That's what I want to do,'' Dean said firmly.
 This struck me as a radical idea, and one that went to the heart of what Howard Dean is really thinking. Now that Dean has wrested control of the national party, his real agenda, it seems, is to radically reduce its relevance, in the same way that Grover Norquist and his crowd of conservative activists talk about ''starving the beast'' of the federal government they now control. Once you understand that, it's easy to understand why Dean isn't troubled by having less cash in the bank than people think he should, and why he isn't concerned about quantifying the success of the state parties he's financing. In Dean's mind, every dollar that goes to Alaska or Mississippi, or even to the Virgin Islands, even if it isn't perfectly utilized, is a dollar that isn't going into the pockets of the Washington syndicate of admen and pollsters who seem to profit more from each election cycle. And that is an end in itself. By shipping the party's money out of Washington as fast as he can collect it, Dean is trying to finish what he started three years ago -- namely, the slow dismantling of the Democratic establishment.
 This philosophical shift is bound to have consequences for the party's next presidential nominee. Dean argues that the 50-state strategy is actually going to broaden the playing field in 2008. By the time the next nominee is crowned, he says, a field network will already be in place, covering most of the counties and precincts in the United States; flip a switch, and the whole grid will light up with activity, from Baton Rouge to Boise. More than that, rebuilding Democratic ground operations in more states will force Republicans and their nominee to spend millions more dollars in states that the G.O.P. usually takes for granted, dollars that would otherwise be spent in the Midwest or in the pivotal Sun Belt. 
 This makes some sense, but it's also true that presidential candidates have long relied on the D.N.C. to do two simple things: underwrite TV ads and coordinate extensive field operations in a handful of perennially contested states -- so much so, in fact, that every four years the nominee essentially takes over the D.N.C., installing his own strategists and fund-raisers to provide his campaign with air and ground support. If Dean isn't going to relinquish control or shift his resources into battleground states, the next nominee could find himself (or herself) outspent by the R.N.C. -- and as piqued at Dean as Emanuel and Schumer are now.
 Some more conspiracy-minded Democrats discern in Dean's decentralizing strategy the careful machinations of a shrewd and ambitious politician. After all, if the party's nominee loses in 2008, doesn't that set up Dean, potentially, as the grass-roots choice for 2012? Might this be his real plan -- to strengthen the local activists who form his natural base of support while at the same time weakening the Washington apparatus that once tried to derail him? 
 It's an elegant theory, but it doesn't take into account Dean's basic ambivalence about electoral politics. In Vermont, Dean, a physician and part-time lieutenant governor, turned down the chance to run for governor, taking office only when his predecessor died. He may have run for president, as a former confidant of his once explained it to me, largely because he was looking for something to do. Dean has never evidenced much in the way of Machiavellian ambition. It's easier to imagine him, several years from now, serving as a cabinet secretary, or maybe running a university, than it is to see him rising up to lead a Reagan-like revolt at a raucous nominating convention in Las Vegas or Phoenix.
 The more immediate question is whether Dean can make it through this year's elections without becoming a permanent pariah among his party's elected leadership. In September, Dean finally reached a compromise of sorts with Rahm Emanuel. In the end, Dean didn't pull any money from his 50-state strategy, nor did Emanuel successfully pressure him into giving cash directly to the campaign committees. Dean agreed, in principle, to pour about $2.6 million, on top of what he was spending on the 50-state strategy, into field operations in 40 targeted districts. ''We have a basic understanding,'' Emanuel told me, sounding more peeved than conciliatory. ''It's not everything I want, but I don't have any time to waste anymore, and I'm not waiting for Godot. I've got to get going.'' The deal seemed to ensure, at least, that Dean and the House campaign committee would be able to work in harmony through the elections. (Peace talks with Schumer were still going on.) It did not, however, do anything to resolve the underlying, more intractable disagreement: the importance of winning elections versus a longer-term investment in state parties. That argument will continue well after November's referendum on Republican rule. 
 Nor, clearly, did the compromise do much to endear Dean to his critics in Washington. ''I'm not going to be on his holiday mailing list, and he's not going to be on my holiday mailing list,'' Emanuel snapped at one point during our conversation about Dean. ''But this isn't about him or me.'' If Democrats fall short of retaking the House of Representatives in November, the party's elected leaders will almost certainly blame Dean for the near miss. They will say that he squandered their best chance in more than a decade to control the country. They will say it proves that Dean's risky strategy has badly hurt the party. 
 And yet, you could make a compelling argument that anything short of total victory in November would prove precisely the opposite. With polls consistently showing voters to be deeply nervous about a protracted war, high gas prices and stunted wages, this is that rare election that should turn less on tactics than on fundamental choices about the direction of the country; in other words, this election season is about the fear and fury of the electorate, not the addition of a few more door-knockers in New Haven or some negative 30-second spot broadcast in Columbus. As the Democratic strategist James Carville told Al Hunt, the Bloomberg News columnist, in August, ''If we can't win in this environment, we have to question the whole premise of the party.'' 
 Most analysts in both parties now believe that Democrats have better-than-even odds of winning at least the House. But if they don't, rather than dissect the mechanical failures that cost them a few thousand votes here or there, Democrats might be forced to admit, at long last, that there is a structural flaw in their theory of party-building. Even a near miss, at a time of such overwhelming opportunity, would suggest that a national party may not, in fact, be able to win over the long term by fixating on a select group of industrial states while condemning entire regions of the country to what amounts to one-party rule. Which would mean that Howard Dean is right to replant his party's flag in the towns and counties along America's less-traveled highways, even if his plan isn't perfect, and even if he isn't the best messenger to carry it out. As another flawed visionary, the filmmaker Woody Allen, once put it, 80 percent of success is just showing up.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mission in Motion: At D.N.C. headquarters in Washington, from top, Dean works with Chris Canning, an aide
prepares to lunch with the Women's Black Caucus
and meets with his communications staff -- all stops on the journey that is his ''50-state strategy.''
 Getting Out the Vote: Dean, focused on the long-term health of his party rather than on near-term victories, is determined to deliver the Democratic message to every state in the Union. (Photographs by David Turnley?Getty Images, for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (72%) Finances

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%) House of Representatives (US)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (55%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (55%)

PERSON: DAVE MATTHEWS (67%); HARRY REID (58%) Howard (Dr) Dean; Matt Bai

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%) ALASKA, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NIGERIA (92%); CHINA (73%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



12 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 5; Automobiles; GREEN TECH; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 294 words

BYLINE: By AUSTIN CONSIDINE

 BODY:

DOUBTS ON ETHANOL
 In its October issue, Consumer Reports takes a detailed look at E85 ethanol and finds the glass half-empty, despite government and industry enthusiasm for biofuels. 
 The magazine's study, which included road tests of a 2007 Chevrolet Tahoe that runs on either gasoline or E85 ethanol (a gasoline blend that is 85 percent ethanol), concluded that although E85 ''emits less smog-producing pollutants than gasoline,'' it ''provides fewer miles per gallon, costs more and is hard to find outside the Midwest.''
Because of these factors, government support for E85-compatible vehicles ''is indirectly causing more gasoline consumption rather than less,'' the magazine said.
 Excerpts from the report are online for nonsubscribers at consumerreports.org. 

CALCULATED LOBBYING
 The Sierra Club wants to put more money in your wallet, at least theoretically, as the environmental advocacy group pushes to raise fuel economy standards for cars.
 The group's Web site features an ''m.p.g. calculator'' (sierraclub.org/mpg) that tells drivers how much they might save ''if automakers put current technology to work'' in the interest of fuel efficiency.
 The site invites visitors to enter a make and model, estimated annual mileage and the price of gasoline. It suggested that while a Nissan Sentra (no model year specified) gets 25 miles a gallon, the car could theoretically achieve 39.3. Driven 10,000 miles a year with gas at $3 a gallon, the Sentra is costing $436 annually more than it has to, the site suggests, or $5,232 over the car's lifetime. 
 The site explains that the mileage gains are in line with what would result if carmakers observed a fleetwide average of 40 m.p.g. -- 67 percent higher than the 2006 model year baseline. AUSTIN CONSIDINE


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHANOL (94%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); BIOMASS (90%); BIOFUELS (90%); ALCOHOLS (90%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (90%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); LOBBYING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); SMOG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Ethanol; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Fuel Efficiency

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (83%) Sierra Club; Consumer Reports (Magazine)

PERSON: Austin Considine

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Midwestern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



13 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL/2007 BMW 328i and 335i; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1474 words

HEADLINE: A Lot More Firepower For BMW's 6-Shooter

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
IT has been nearly 30 years since two debuts, of an engine and a car, ushered in the modern era of BMW. At the 1977 Frankfurt Motor Show, the company displayed a new version of its highly respected in-line 6-cylinder engine. That was also the year when BMW began importing its 3 Series coupe to America.
 At that point, the first 3 Series car, the 320, had been on sale in Europe for nearly two years; it was a handsome replacement for the boxy 2002, the original Ultimate Driving Machine. But while the 320 had a come-hither price of less than $9,000 -- almost unimaginable in today's world of six-figure performance cars -- it had come only a 4-cylinder engine.
The new 6 changed that, though only for Europeans. It would be seven more years before BMW would entrust Americans with the smooth-running, more powerful engine. 
 The 320 became a legendary success, igniting sales and helping to transform the Bavarian automaker from a niche brand to a respected mass-market player. But in 1984, BMW replaced the beloved 320 with two new derivatives: the 318i, perhaps the crummiest Bimmer ever, a gutless wunderkind that cost twice as much as the 320, and an even pricier 6-cylinder upgrade. 
 Buyers proved willing to pay dearly for straight 6's, and over the next 20 years they did so in ever higher numbers. In the same period, the basic engine architecture and output changed relatively little.
 For 2007, BMW has brought out new fifth-generation coupes, the BMW 328i and 335i, cheering enthusiasts who haven't seen a new two-door 3 Series since 1999. Both cars have new 3-liter in-line engines, which BMW insists are its most sophisticated 6's yet. 
 But as BMW celebrates the pearl anniversary of its 6-cylinder 3 Series (in case you're thinking of sending a gift), I find myself wondering, ''How much longer can this go on?'' The in-line 6 has, arguably, come to define this car. But insomuch as horsepower expectations escalate from year to year, where else can BMW go with its 6-shooter? From a development standpoint, will they still be viable power plants seven or eight years from now, when the sixth-generation 3 Series arrives?
 Never suggest to anyone at BMW that a V-6, now the power plant of choice for most competitors, might be a better alternative; that's as heretical as suggesting that sauerkraut is too sour, that wiener schnitzel ought to include wieners or that iDrive controls were a blunder.
 BMW doesn't easily change course. The basic layout of six cylinders in a row produces a velvet-smooth, almost vibration-free supply of power. But V-6's, while less smooth, have often been coaxed into generating more horsepower and torque -- outrageous amounts, in fact, if they are turbocharged to force in more air for combustion.
 To get more power from in-line 6's, BMW has made them rev ever higher, and increased their displacement. As size grows, however, fuel efficiency declines.
 For its 2007 models, and to one-up its competitors in the horsepower wars, BMW had to adjust its conservative corporate mindset and reconsider its decades-old stance against turbocharging. BMW always believed the tradeoff for turbocharging would be searing-hot operating temperatures, poorer fuel economy and unacceptable throttle lag while the turbos spooled up.
 But technology advances have changed the game. The latest turbochargers can work more precisely with direct fuel injection, yielding a broader power band and unexpectedly better mileage.
 The new 335i's 3-liter engine has twin Mitsubishi turbochargers and is rated at 300 horsepower and 300 pound-feet of torque. The outgoing M3 supercar, with its larger 3.2-liter, 333-horsepower 6, can barely outrun it. Car and Driver magazine reports that the 335i's 0-to-60 m.p.h. time of 4.9 seconds is just 0.1 second slower than the current M3, which costs at least $7,000 more.
 The 335i, however, consumes far less fuel than the M3; the new coupe carries a government rating of 20 miles a gallon in town, 29 on the highway, compared with the M3's 16/23. 
 The only lag I felt was around 1,500 r.p.m., when I tried to leave cellphone yakkers and other slowpokes behind. The six-speed manual transmission seemed to have more gears than it needed; usually, when I wanted to do something in a hurry, I wasn't anywhere near the right gear. I actually preferred the automatic, which can pick the proper gear faster than mortal man.
 I also preferred driving the nonturbocharged 3-liter engine in the 328i, which delivers better economy (21/29 m.p.g.) and is faultlessly direct in its throttle response. The 328i's 230-horse engine has 46 more horses than the 2.5-liter engine it replaces.
 For now at least, the 3 Series sedans -- new for the 2006 model year -- retain different engines from the coupes, though the 335i's turbo 6 may become an option on the sedan next year. A convertible model (with a retracting hardtop) will be introduced in December at the Los Angeles auto show; BMW convertibles have traditionally shared their engines with the coupes. The rollout will continue next year with a new M3 coupe.
 Externally, the coupes share family resemblances with the sedans, of course, though BMW says it made a serious effort to differentiate them. Put coupe and sedan photos side by side and try to spot the differences; no points are given for noting that the coupe has two fewer doors.
 The coupe is roughly two inches longer and sits nearly two inches lower than the sedan, although each rides on the same chassis. Handling characteristics feel similar. An optional sport package for the 335i nicely fills the fender wells with 18-inch Bridgestone Potenza tires on alloy wheels. Even with the firm sport suspension and the run-flat Bridgestones, the 335i's ride remains compliant enough to avoid the M3's denture-rattling harshness. Large brakes (13.7 inches in front, 13.2 inches in the rear) are good for 160-foot stops from 70 miles an hour.
 To compensate for the heavier twin-turbo, the 335i went on a diet, with slimmed down body panels and plastic front fenders.
 Fortunately, the driving experience loses nothing in this painstaking redesign; handling is still crisp, precise and rewarding. Above 75 m.p.h., the optional active-steering system provides better on-center feel -- a worthwhile feature in West Texas, where the speed limit was recently raised to 80 m.p.h. 
 The driving position is well suited to high-performance driving, but the seats were as hard as Adirondack chairs. I much prefer the cushy seats in the BMW 5 Series.
 As usual, the indecipherable instrument panel is a black forest of buttons, and the annoying iDrive controller has migrated like a virus to this platform. (Fortunately, iDrive comes only with the optional navigation system.) So layer upon layer of redundant switches, dials and toggles have been added to compensate for the system's shortcomings. (Wasn't eliminating switches the reason iDrive was developed?)
 During this test, I did peruse the 244-page owner's manual to unlock some of iDrive's mysteries. It does have some useful features, if you can twist, click and beat on it accurately enough to navigate its labyrinth of menus -- while driving 80 m.p.h. (recommended in West Texas only) and balancing a scalding-hot latte.
 That brings me to the twin-turbo cup holders. These engineering marvels boing-boing out of the dashboard on either side of the glove box -- often when you don't want them to.
 They will hold the aforementioned latte, though not a 44-ounce Super Big Gulp. (Hello again, West Texas!) While deployed, the cup holders will also remove the kneecaps of inattentive front-seat passengers as they enter or exit the vehicle.
 There is no need to discuss rear seat passengers, because there are unlikely to be very many. Any adult consenting to climb back there risks being speared by the odd seat belt presenter arms that stick out to make the front belts easier to find. Only two legroom-challenged rear seating positions exist.
 These are mere nitpicks, if you will, about what is still the world's quintessential sport coupe. Inarguably, it's the best 3 Series coupe yet. What is arguable is whether you will be happy with the ever-escalating price. BMW says the new coupes cost less than the cars they replace, when comparably equipped. Technically that's true if you count new and possibly unwanted features like the power moon roof, but the bottom line is that the price of admission has ballooned to $35,995 for the 328i and $41,295 for the 335i. A loaded 335i can easily top $52,000.
 If that price doesn't scare you, you may want to wait for the new M3 due out next year, which will reportedly make 400 horsepower. But, get this: the latest version of that car, hitherto the ultimate 6-cylinder driving machine, will be powered by, yes, a V-8.

INSIDE TRACK: An unbearable lightness of quintessence.


GRAPHIC: Photos: New for 2007, a BMW with two turbos.Chart: ''Classy Coupes: 2-Door 6-Cylinder Imports'' lists features and specifications for selected 2-Door 6-Cylinder Imports. (pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR MODELS (90%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (89%); POWER PLANTS (86%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (86%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (62%) Automobiles; Reviews

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Bayerische Motorenwerke Ag (Bmw)

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (92%); BMW (BIT) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: Jerry Garrett

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



14 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: October 1, 2006

 BODY:


	 	 	 			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	1		1	THE THIRTEENTH TALE, by Diane Setterfield. (Atria, $26.) A biographer struggles to discover the truth about an aging writer who has mythologized her past.		 	 	 	2	1	2	THE BOOK OF FATE, by Brad Meltzer. (Warner, $25.99.) The apparent murder of a presidential aide reveals Masonic secrets in Washington and a 200-year-old code invented by Thomas Jefferson.		 	 	 	3		1	THE MEPHISTO CLUB, by Tess Gerritsen. (Ballantine, $25.95.) A Boston medical examiner and a detective must solve a series of murders involving apocalyptic messages and a sinister cabal.		 	 	 	4	2	3	RISE AND SHINE, by Anna Quindlen. (Random House, $24.95.) The lives of two sisters, one the host of a popular morning television show and the other a social worker, in two very different New Yorks.		 	 	 	5	4	7	JUDGE & JURY, by James Patterson and Andrew Gross. (Little, Brown, $27.99.) An aspiring actress and an F.B.I. agent join forces against a powerful mobster.		 	 	 	6	3	2	DARK CELEBRATION, by Christine Feehan. (Berkley, $23.95.) Carpathians from around the world join together to oppose their enemies' plot to kill all Carpathian women.		 	 	 	7	5	5	RICOCHET, by Sandra Brown. (Simon & Schuster, $25.95.) A detective is attracted to a judge's wife who he suspects is not telling the truth about a fatal shooting.		 	 	 	8	10	2	THE GUY NOT TAKEN, by Jennifer Weiner. (Atria, $24.95.) Stories about women and relationships from the author of ''In Her Shoes.''		 	 	 	9	8	3	THE EMPEROR'S CHILDREN, by Claire Messud. (Knopf, $25.) A group of privileged 30-somethings try to make their way in literary New York just before 9/11.		 	 	 	10	6	4	THE AFGHAN, by Frederick Forsyth. (Putnam, $26.95.) To foil a Qaeda plot, a British operative masquerades as a Taliban commander just released from Guantanamo.		 	 	 	11		1	WORLD WAR Z, by Max Brooks. (Crown, $24.95.) An $(3$)oral history$(2$) of an imagined Zombie War that nearly destroys civilization.		 	 	 	12		1	A SPOT OF BOTHER, by Mark Haddon. (Doubleday, $24.95.) The world of a mild-mannered British family man falls apart; from the author of ''The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time.''		 	 	 	13		1	ONLY REVOLUTIONS, by Mark Z. Danielewski. (Pantheon, $26.) Two teenagers, forever 16, describe a 100-year road trip; their versions begin at opposite ends of the book, upside down from each other.		 	 	 	14		1	AFTER THIS, by Alice McDermott. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) The life of a Catholic family on Long Island at midcentury.		 	 	 	15	14	3	FOOL ME ONCE, by Fern Michaels. (Kensington, $24.) A young woman grapples with revelations about her mother's true identity and her past.		 	 	 			Weeks			 	 	 	This	Last	On			 	 	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	1	2	48	MARLEY & ME, by John Grogan. (Morrow, $21.95.) A newspaper columnist and his wife learn some life lessons from their neurotic dog.		 	 	 	2	1	7	I FEEL BAD ABOUT MY NECK, by Nora Ephron. (Knopf, $19.95.) A witty look at aging from a novelist and screenwriter (''When Harry Met Sally'').		 	 	 	3	4	6	THE LOOMING TOWER, by Lawrence Wright. (Knopf, $27.95.) The road to 9/11 as seen through the lives of terrorist planners and the F.B.I. counterterrorism chief.		 	 	 	4	3	76	THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) A columnist for The New York Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy. 		 	 	 	5	6	4	STATE OF EMERGENCY, by Patrick J. Buchanan. (Thomas Dunne/St. Martin's, $24.95.) The conservative commentator argues that unchecked immigration means that the American Southwest is being reconquered by Mexico, and offers a border-security plan.		 	 	 	6	7	75	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $25.95.) A maverick scholar and a journalist apply economic theory to everything from cheating sumo wrestlers to legalized abortion and the falling crime rate.		 	 	 	7	5	8	FIASCO, by Thomas E. Ricks. (Penguin Press, $27.95.) How the Bush administration's and the military's failure to understand the developing Iraqi insurgency contributed to its further growth.		 	 	 	8		1	HUBRIS, by Michael Isikoff and David Corn. (Crown, $25.95.) The planning and marketing of the invasion of Iraq, featuring the president, administration officials, neoconservatives, Iraqi exiles and credulous journalists.		 	 	 	9		1	THE WAY WE WERE, by Paul Burrell. (Morrow, $25.95.) Diana's former butler reminisces.		 	 	 	10	14	81	BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) The author of ''The Tipping Point'' explores the importance of hunch and instinct to the workings of the mind.		 	 	 	11	10	5	WINS, LOSSES, AND LESSONS, by Lou Holtz. (Morrow, $25.95.) The retired football coach turned motivational speaker tells his life story.		 	 	 	12	12	2	BANKRUPT, by David Limbaugh. (Regnery, $27.95.) The intellectual and moral bankruptcy of the Democratic Party, by a lawyer and syndicated columnist.		 	 	 	13	8	3	ELIZABETH, by J. Randy Taraborrelli. (Warner, $26.99.) A biography of E. Taylor.		 	 	 	14		2	READING LIKE A WRITER, by Francine Prose. (HarperCollins, $23.95.) A novelist, critic and teacher describes the art of close reading.		 	 	 	15		1	DRIVING HOME, by Jerome Bettis with Teresa Varley. (Triumph, $29.95.) The Pittsburgh Steelers running back describes the 2005 season, his last, from training camp to Super Bowl victory.		 	 	 	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Sept. 16, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

Editors' Choice
 Other recent books of particular interest

THE LOST: A Search for Six of Six Million, by Daniel Mendelsohn. (HarperCollins, $27.95.) Grappling with the Holocaust in both its personal and geopolitical dimensions, Mendelsohn reconstructs the story of his great-uncle's family.
 YOKOHAMA BURNING: The Deadly 1923 Earthquake and Fire That Helped Forge the Path to World War II, by Joshua Hammer. (Free Press, $26.) Hammer argues that the disaster in the cosmopolitan city marked a turning point in Japan's embrace of militant nationalism.
 IT'S GETTING LATER ALL THE TIME: A Novel in the Form of Letters, by Antonio Tabucchi. Translated by Alastair McEwan. (New Directions, paper, $15.95.) Letters by 17 men to distant or long-lost lovers, and a single reply to them all.
 CREATIONISTS: Selected Essays, 1993-2006, by E. L. Doctorow. (Random House, $24.95.) Respectful, text-centered literary musings on Poe, Twain, Fitzgerald, Dos Passos and others. 
 FORGETFULNESS, by Ward Just. (Houghton Mifflin, $25.) In this novel, one of Just's best, a small-time American spy uneasily revisits his earlier life after his French wife is murdered. 
 THE INHABITED WORLD, by David Long. (Houghton Mifflin, $23.) This novel's hero, a ghost, looks back ruefully on his suicide and longs to help a woman survive her own despair. 
 BLUE FRONT, by Martha Collins. (Graywolf, paper, $14.) Poems built around a 1909 lynching in the hometown of Collins's father.
 ANCESTOR STONES, by Aminatta Forna. (Atlantic Monthly, $24.) This debut novel's emigrant heroine learns about the history of Sierra Leone, her homeland, from tales told by her four aunts. 
 THE THEOCONS: Secular America Under Siege, by Damon Linker. (Doubleday, $26.) A study of a group of Roman Catholic thinkers who have helped spread America's religious revival from the masses to the intelligentsia.
 THINGS I DIDN'T KNOW: A Memoir, by Robert Hughes. (Knopf, $27.95.) Writing after a near-fatal car crash, the Australian art critic describes his formative years and the evolution of his craft. 
 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); LITERATURE (78%); HISTORY (77%); ORGANIZED CRIME (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); ADOLESCENTS (73%); WOMEN (73%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (71%); SHOOTINGS (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); JURY TRIALS (68%); FAMILY (68%); TALIBAN (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (55%); FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: JAMES PATTERSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



15 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; DEVELOPMENT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: After 40 Years, 2 Hotel Plans Vie for Port Washington's Heart

BYLINE: By BEN GIBBERD

DATELINE: PORT WASHINGTON, N.Y. 

 BODY:
FOR more than 40 years, this North Shore hamlet of about 15,000 people has not had a hotel. Then came a proposal for not one but two hotels, within a short distance of each other on Main Street.
 The proposals have raised concerns in Port Washington and surrounding municipalities about increased traffic and the size of the buildings. The need for a hotel, however, appears to be generally accepted.
The first proposal, which was made public in 2004, called for a three-story, 55-room hotel named the Bradley to be built near the busy intersection of Main Street and Shore Road, across from a park bordering Manhasset Bay. The site is near the location of the last hotel in town, also called the Bradley, which burned down in 1962. 
 The second proposal, a few hundred yards down Main Street and right on the bay, was made public only a few months ago. It consists of only a preliminary sketch, but it is for a much more ambitious project that would also include a marina and retail development.
 Jennifer Rimmer, the executive director of Residents for a More Beautiful Port Washington, a nonprofit group that encourages environmentally sensitive development on the Port Washington peninsula, said that a desire for a hotel and the economic development it could stimulate were among the main findings from two years of public meetings the group held with residents and local officials.
 The results of this process, published in 2005, also made clear that residents wanted more street life in their communities, something these projects might offer, Ms. Rimmer said.
 Joe D'Alonzo, a third-generation resident of Port Washington and a developer of the proposed Bradley hotel, said: ''The site cries out for a hotel. It's right by the water, by the town dock, by the local restaurants. Everything's in walking distance.''
 Erwin Schnellinger, who is the developer of the second proposed site and lives in North Bellmore, declined to comment until his plans were more developed, but he did say he may withdraw the hotel from his plan should Mr. D'Alonzo's proceed first. 
 The Bradley is awaiting a zoning variance and site plan approval from the Town of North Hempstead and could start construction next summer, Mr. D'Alonzo said. 
 Mr. D'Alonzo and his partner, Sam Suzuki of the real estate company Vintage Group, said they had met several times with local officials and residents and, in response to those comments, agreed to reduce the number of rooms to 46 and lower the building's height to 40 feet. 
 Mr. Suzuki said a hotel would have less impact on traffic than any other new use of the site. In addition, the hotel would contribute significantly to the local property taxes, he said, perhaps as much as $250,000 a year.
 Some residents, particularly those near the proposed Bradley site, remain unconvinced.
 ''It's the right idea in a bad location,'' said Shawn Landau, whose house backs up to the rear of the proposed site and who fears its value would fall. Mr. Landau said he favored Mr. Schnellinger's site, which is not adjacent to any residential property and is on the water. 
 With Long Island having undergone a hotel-building boom -- 18 have opened in the last seven years, although occupancy rates have gone down -- Ms. Rimmer said her biggest concern was that Port Washington did not get stuck with a white elephant.
 ''We want something viable, and these developers feel very strongly that they can make it work,'' she said.
 Jon Kaiman, the North Hempstead town supervisor, agreed that there was ''a desperate need for a new hotel'' in Port Washington but said that he had not yet seen the revised plans for the Bradley or Mr. Schnellinger's sketch.
 ''The real issue is location,'' he said, ''and no judgment can be made until we've balanced out all the competing factors.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: UP FOR DEBATE -- Joe D'Alonzo, far left, and Sam Suzuki say Main Street cries out for a hotel. Another developer agrees. (Photographs by Barton Silverman/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ZONING (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (72%); RETAIL PROPERTY (72%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%) Hotels and Motels

ORGANIZATION: Vintage Group

PERSON: Joe D'Alonzo; Sam Suzuki; Irwin Schnellinger; Ben Gibberd

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Port Washington (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



16 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; HOME FRONT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Adding a Personal Touch to Hotel Etiquette

BYLINE: By LOUISE KRAMER. 
This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
SUSAN CARLIN is stretched out on a king-size bed at the Regency Hotel in the middle of a workday.
 ''If you wouldn't mind, get on the bed,'' she says to a travel agency representative, patting a spot. ''It's supremely comfortable.''
There is nothing inappropriate going on here. Ms. Carlin, the director of business travel sales for the Regency, is dressed in a dark business suit and closed-toe shoes. She is in the midst of a sales pitch to a company that books large blocks of rooms for corporations and celebrities. 
 Her ''try it; you'll like it'' approach is not only sanctioned, but encouraged by her employer, Loews Hotels, parent to the Regency and 16 other properties in the United States and Canada. Ms. Carlin is one of the first graduates of a new corporate training program called ''Living Loews.''
 The program, begun in August, is meant to set Loews employees apart by their behavior, dress and personalized approach to sales. It is a combination of courses that cover behavior, communication, presentation, salesmanship, public speaking and etiquette -- from how to put a new spin on a business pitch to how to hold a fork. It includes a new, more formal dress code and new words to replace tired hotel industry adjectives like ''spacious'' and ''upscale.'' 
 With all luxury hotels now offering the same great beds, special toiletries and flat-screen television sets, it is becoming harder to stand out in this crowded segment of the lodging industry, said Josh Davies, president of the Council of Hotel and Restaurant Trainers. He predicts that more hotel companies will beef up behavior training for executives. Almost every hotel company already has customer service training programs for lower-echelon staff members.
 ''What some of the smarter companies, like Loews, are realizing,'' Mr. Davies said, ''is that they are going to have to hit the one piece they haven't yet, and that is their sales associates.''
 While most executive training courses run a couple of hours, Loews is devoting two full days to the task. Its course is for members of the sales staff and other executives. 
 ''There are a lot of different little etiquette classes out there,'' said Irwin Fisher, vice president of sales administration and training for Loews. ''We really wanted a more comprehensive, in-depth look at the big picture of etiquette.'' 
 One session covers how to work a room. Skulking in a corner is verboten; so is chatting with fellow employees as a security blanket. A Loews employee is taught how to enter a room with confidence, even if he or she does not know a soul. The trick is to appear animated from the outset, and to pretend to recognize a friend across the room, even if that ''friend'' is a total stranger, said Ms. Carlin, who recently tried this and ended up with a new business prospect.
 In a session on language, participants are encouraged to come up with words that reflect the particular hotel they work in, and the chain as a whole. Loews has a mix of properties, including the Ventana Canyon Resort in Tucson and the Madison, a business hotel near the White House. Words that resonate will be part of a corporate glossary so everyone can talk the same talk.
 ''Old'' words included beautiful, upscale, oversized, spacious, lovely and pretty. ''New'' words and phrases include supremely comfortable, uniquely local, vibrant, dynamic, discreet, effortless and authentic.
 Most salespeople know that they should shake a customer's hand. In the training, they are taught the ''Loews way'' -- hand web-to-web, a firm grip and two pumps. And of course, they must make eye contact. 
 To break through the clutter of e-mail messages, handwritten notes are a must. 
 By the end of this year, Loews will have put 400 staff members through the training. Ms. Carlin, once an aspiring actress, was already the company's top-performing sales executive. It may seem as if she did not need the training, but it is already paying off.
 ''Before, I would describe a room and I felt like the client didn't feel comfortable enough to touch the bed or try the bath products,'' she said. ''In the training, it came to me that I had to let them literally experience the hotel.'' 
 That epiphany is what led Ms. Carlin to plop down on the bed during her Regency sales pitch. Her client, Corinne Cricks, director of hotel programs for Tzell Travel in New York City, was impressed.
 ''I saw a big change,'' Ms. Cricks said. ''I used to see the hotel as stiff and sterile. The site visit was very whimsical. It was definitely fun.''
 And more important for the Regency, she said she planned to expand the list of clients she would steer there.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Susan Carlin, right, director of business travel sales for the Regency Hotel, offered a snack to Corinne Cricks of Tzell Travel as part of a sales pitch in early September. (Photo by Casey Kelbaugh for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (90%); LODGING (89%); SALES FORCE (89%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (89%); SALES MANAGEMENT (89%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (77%); CELEBRITIES (76%); WORKPLACE DRESS CODES (76%); SALES & SELLING (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); RESTAURANTS (73%); TRAVEL AGENTS (72%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (50%) Hotels and Motels; Labor; Customs, Etiquette and Manners

COMPANY: LOEWS HOTELS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Loews Hotels

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (56%)

PERSON: Louise Kramer

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



17 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: As Competition Builds, So Do Colleges

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
ON local streets, new home and business construction may be leveling off, but it is booming on college campuses across the region.
 Educators and real estate analysts say that colleges and universities, public and private, big and small, are adding classrooms, dormitories, student centers and athletic centers at a scope and rate that have not been seen in decades. While students consider many factors when choosing a college, educators say that first-rate physical facilities are becoming increasingly important in attracting students.
 ''It's not always because a school is cheap or that their dad went there,'' said David A. Cain, a vice president at Carter & Burgess, a consulting firm in Fort Worth that advises colleges on building programs. ''Facilities do matter.'' 
 Under pressure to compete for students, Iona College, a 3,000-student Roman Catholic school in New Rochelle, N.Y., recently spent $26 million on two major buildings for its compact 36-acre main campus. 
 At the Hynes Athletic Center, which opened in January next to the Mulcahy Campus Events Center, there are classrooms for activities like Irish step dancing and rowing tanks for crew; the centers boast 109,000 square feet of athletic space. Across the football field is the Robert V. LaPenta Student Union, which opened a year ago, with a dining hall, radio station and bookstore.
 To pay for the buildings, Iona began an $83 million capital campaign -- the first in the college's 66-year history, said Brother James Liguori, its president.
 The buildings were necessary to compete for students who might otherwise attend rival colleges in the area, like Siena, Marist or St. John's, he said. Iona is locked in an ''arms race'' with those schools, Mr. Liguori said, with each trying to outdo the others.
 ''What one does, everyone has to do, and it puts tremendous pressure on us,'' he said. ''But if we are going to compete, we need to accommodate.'' 
 Like Iona, which charges about $32,500 a year for tuition, room and board, many colleges are financing large-scale expansions by going to alumni for big-ticket gifts. Others are issuing bonds, petitioning the state for money or increasing tuition -- or, more often, a combination.
 Given the economic and demographic trends, college administrators say this is the time to expand. 
 Enrollment tends to increase when the economic outlook is uncertain, college officials say, and there will soon be more people of college age. Projections from the National Center for Education Statistics released in September say that enrollment nationwide will increase 13 percent over the next seven years.
 Betting that the swelling number of students will translate into increased demand, Montclair State University, with 16,000 students in Montclair, N.J., is rushing to burnish its 234-acre, Spanish-mission-style campus. Since 1999, it has spent $144 million to more than double the space in its campus buildings, to 3 million square feet from 1.3 million. 
 Montclair State is building a $28 million recreation center with a six-lane swimming pool, racquetball courts and a cafe that will open next spring. That will join the seven-story, $80 million University Hall, which added 40 percent more classroom space when it opened in January.
 ''I don't think there's a lot you can do in higher education these days without state-of-the-art facilities,'' said Susan Cole, who has been Montclair State's president for eight years and who has made increasing enrollment a priority.
 Yet historical trends are working against her. New Jersey sends more high-school graduates out of state than any other, 32,000 a year, and attracts only 5,600, Dr. Cole said.
 At the same time, she said that New Jersey had been frugal in supporting its eight public colleges; for instance, it has kicked in only $18 million since 1999 for new buildings at Montclair. And the state recently cut $80 million from next year's budget for higher education.
 So, colleges often borrow heavily to build. Montclair State, for example, borrowed $113 million of the $144 million building costs. That debt, however, is passed on to students in their tuition, which at Montclair State totals $8,300, including fees. 
 Not everyone agrees that the building boom is in students' best interests. ''Students could be paying off debt for decades,'' said Allison Cairo, director of the New Jersey Public Interest Research Group. ''It's a huge burden in terms of what types of careers they can go into. Government and universities need to make it more affordable, not less affordable, for kids to go to college.''
 Whether schools are building to handle increased numbers of students or more students are going because of the new buildings is a chicken-or-egg question. 
 Administrators at Quinnipiac University, a private liberal-arts college with 7,400 students in Hamden, Conn., which is more than doubling its physical size with its new 240-acre York Hill campus, say the expansion is about meeting existing demand.
 Plans include the TD Banknorth Sports Center, a hockey and basketball arena that will open at the end of January. Quinnipiac is also set to feature a student center, a science center and 2,225 parking spaces. 
 York Hill will also include 21 dorms for 1,450 beds, a chance to relocate students from housing in residential neighborhoods.
 ''One of our difficulties has always been making more and better housing available,'' said Lynn Bushnell, a university spokeswoman. 
 Administrators said some of the cost of Quinnipiac's $400 million expansion, financed by fund-raising and bonds, would undoubtedly be passed on to students, whose tuition already clocks in at $36,980 a year.
 However, ''the financing plan associated with the York Hill project has yet to be fully developed,'' Patrick Healy, the senior vice president for finance, said in an e-mail message.
 FROM a state's perspective, improving a campus can boost the state's economy, educators say. The return is a well-educated work force that takes jobs in the area.
 This was the rationale behind a capital program begun in New York in 1998 for the state university system's aging and outdated buildings, said David Henahan, a State University of New York spokesman.
 One SUNY campus that has been a noticeable recipient is Farmingdale State, on the Suffolk-Nassau border.
 A $19.7 million science center is rising next to the glass-fronted Broad Hollow Bioscience Park, which opened in 2001. Last year, Farmingdale cut the ribbon on its first dorm in 30 years, the gold-and-gray Orchard Hall, which houses 392 students. And a $21.7 million student union is moving ahead.
 For a campus encircled by acres of asphalt, the new real estate may already be helping produce tangible results; applications have jumped 65 percent since 2001, said Kathy Coley, the Farmingdale spokeswoman. 
 ''We build because they already have come,'' Ms. Coley said, ''and so they will come.''

Building All Over
 Here is a cross-section of building projects on campuses across the New York metropolitan area.

Montclair State -- Montclair, N.J. $144 million, classrooms, dormitories, arts theater
William Paterson -- Wayne, N.J. $165 million, classrooms, dormitories, student center
Hudson Community College -- Jersey City. $55 million, new campus
Union County College -- Elizabeth, N.J. $18 million, new campus
Quinnipiac -- Hamden, Conn. $400 million, new campus
Stony Brook -- Stony Brook, N.Y. $85 million, new campus, labs
Hofstra -- Hempstead, N.Y. $48 million, classrooms, theater, dormitory, pedestrian bridge, library renovation
Adelphi -- Garden City, N.Y. $94 million, classrooms, performance space, athletic center
Farmingdale State -- Farmingdale, N.Y. $41 million, academic buildings, student center, dormitory
Iona -- New Rochelle, N.Y. $28 million, athletic center, student center, dormitories


GRAPHIC: Photos: FIRST RATE -- Montclair State University's $28 million student recreation center is scheduled to open next spring. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)
 ARMS RACE -- The rowing machine in Iona's new Hynes Athletic Center. (Photo by Susan Farley for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); STUDENT HOUSING (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); TRENDS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); BONDS (77%); CITIES (74%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); STATISTICS (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (60%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); PHILANTHROPY (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (53%); RELIGION (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Colleges and Universities; Building (Construction); Finances; Philanthropy; Tuition; Dormitories; Colleges and Universities

PERSON: C J Hughes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



18 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: The 11 Million-Gallon Solution

BYLINE: By Martin E. Robins, Scott A. Weiner and Jeffrey Zupan. 
Martin E. Robins is the director of the Alan M. Voorhees Transportation Center at Rutgers University and Scott A. Weiner is the former director of the university's Center for Energy, Economic and Environmental Policy. Jeffrey Zupan is the senior fellow for transportation at the Regional Plan Association.

 BODY:
DESPITE the temporary lull in the climb in gas prices, which peaked at more than $3 a gallon this summer, our recent experience with volatile energy prices has brought new urgency to the need to wean Americans off their oil dependency and move toward more self-sufficiency. 
 New Jersey can play a leadership role in that quest through steps that take advantage of the state's extensive public transit system and the eagerness of its cities to attract economic development. As we improve our state's energy efficiency, we can create jobs, accelerate ''smart growth'' urban redevelopment, increase public transit use and bolster state revenue. 
A recent Rutgers study documented the energy benefits that derive from commuting to cities by public transit versus commuting by car to suburban work sites. We found that driving to a suburban office campus in Morris County's Parsippany-Troy Hills area consumed 57 percent more energy than taking a train or a bus to downtown Newark. If the substantial job growth predicted over the next two decades was in downtown Newark and similar cities instead of in distant suburbs along highways, New Jersey would see huge energy savings. Nearly 11.5 million gallons of gasoline a year would be saved by increasing the number of jobs in downtown Newark, essentially doubling them, instead of locating them in the suburbs. 
 While these results confirm the conventional wisdom, the question now is how to turn conventional wisdom into policy initiatives. 
 For starters, the state needs to establish financial and zoning incentives for developers to build and encourage companies to move to areas where public transportation is readily available to their employees. Over the last decade, the state has designated 17 municipalities in New Jersey, including South Orange, Rahway and Collingswood, as ''transit villages.'' The state has given these villages incentives, like transit station improvements, to encourage them to build housing units and retail and commercial space. This should be broadened to include office development in major cities, like Newark, Elizabeth and Camden, that are served by public transportation.
 To further encourage transit use, cities well served by public transportation should set strict limits on the number of parking spaces associated with new buildings in downtowns, following the example of Jersey City, which has a maximum of 0.9 parking space per 1,000 square feet of office space. Too much supply lowers the price, making driving too competitive with transit. Tightening the parking supply, as in Manhattan, drives prices higher and leads commuters onto trains and buses. 
 And transit planning should focus on projects that support downtowns, like upgrading neighborhood bus routes into the Newark business district and extending the southern New Jersey River LINE light rail system into downtown Trenton. These investments would further exploit the transit system's potential and encourage commuters to abandon their cars for the train or the bus. 
 The New Jersey Department of Transportation could also help by working with municipal governments to ensure that local land use decisions do not result in traffic that exceeds existing or planned highway capacity. What this means in many suburbs is less office development. If necessary, the department should be given the authority to prevent developments that would increase highway traffic.
 As Gov. Jon Corzine begins to update the state's strategy for conserving energy, he should encourage initiatives that integrate energy, transportation and land use policies. At the state level, energy planning has focused primarily on stationary energy sources like power plants instead of cars and trains. But now, more than ever, energy and transportation issues need to be melded. 
 New Jersey pays a tremendous cost for energy by neglecting its transit-accessible inner cities, which are eager for jobs and development. This nexus of energy, urban revitalization and transit could become a core principle of New Jersey's economic policy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); SUBURBS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); TRAINS (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (88%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); GASOLINE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (73%); PRICE CUTTING (73%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (72%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (69%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (67%) Transit Systems; Area Planning and Renewal

PERSON: Martin E Robins; Scott A Weiner; Jeffrey Zupan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



19 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; CITY PEOPLE; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: Ray Lopez vs. the Critters of the Night

BYLINE: By JOHN FREEMAN GILL

 BODY:
THEY shun the daylight and prey at night, sucking the blood of their slumbering human victims. They move with astonishing stealth and speed, slipping into the shadows at dawn. And they are notoriously difficult to eradicate. 
 They are bedbugs, and after decades in abeyance they have returned to the city with a vengeance.
 ''It's horror stuff,'' said Ruth Reyes, a 45-year-old East Harlem resident, as she frantically scratched the constellation of red welts the nocturnal parasites had left on her body. ''I can't sleep; I dream of bedbugs bothering me all the time. I don't know what to do.'' 
 But if bedbugs sometimes seem like tiny bloodthirsty vampires to those cursed with them, Ray Lopez may be the closest thing East Harlem has to a full-time vampire slayer.
 Mr. Lopez, a soft-spoken 29-year-old with a shy smile, runs the environmental program at Little Sisters of the Assumption Family Health Service, on East 115th Street near First Avenue. Before 2003, he spent his time battling mold problems and fielding calls about roaches and rats. But in the past three years, his professional life has become virtually all bedbugs, all the time. ''It's taken over my job, basically,'' he said.
 Complaints of bedbugs in rental housing surged fivefold to 4,638 in the last fiscal year, according to the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development. On Sept. 18, the City Council held a hearing on a bill by Councilwoman Gale Brewer of Manhattan that would ban the sale of reconditioned mattresses and create a task force on bedbugs.
 In the meantime, it is largely the self-taught bedbug fighters on the front lines, like Mr. Lopez, who come to the rescue of itchy victims.
 Last Tuesday, Ms. Reyes, a large woman who was wearing pink Betty Boop pants, greeted Mr. Lopez with a beleaguered air at the door of her tenement apartment on East 115th Street. Mr. Lopez wheeled in his black shopping cart full of supplies and went to work.
 ''I can't sleep at night,'' Ms. Reyes moaned as Mr. Lopez examined her furniture with the help of a small purple flashlight. ''I'm epileptic, and I could have a seizure.''
 Within moments, Mr. Lopez had spotted an intruder in the folds of Ms. Reyes's clean suede sofa. ''That's an adult,'' he said, pointing at an insect about the size of a lentil that was scuttling along the crease of a cushion. In the center of its body could be seen a dark red mass that was probably the blood of either Ms. Reyes or her cat, Pelua.
 After scanning the rest of Ms. Reyes's furniture for bedbugs -- their small size and flat shape allow them to find lodging in obscure spaces like screwheads -- Mr. Lopez gave her the news she had been waiting for: ''How I want to help you is to enable you to sleep through the night and not get bitten.''
 First, he told her, she needed to move her wooden bed frame, between whose sections bedbugs often hide, into the living room; it could later be dismantled, cleaned and reassembled. Next, he gave her a vinyl mattress cover he had gotten from someone he knew at the city's Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, and he told her to put her mattress inside to suffocate the bedbugs. Finally, to keep the insects from climbing into bed with her from the floor, Mr. Lopez showed Ms. Reyes how to wrap duct tape around the edge of her mattress as a kind of sticky moat.
 WHILE bedbugs are rampant all over the city, they can be especially difficult to eradicate in a neighborhood where cluttered and crowded apartments offer countless nooks and crannies in which to hide.
 In Ms. Reyes's building, exterminators hired by the landlord, a nonprofit property manager called Hope Community, made emergency visits to 18 apartments in August at a cost of $27,000, according to Carmen Vasquez, Hope's community relations manager. But five families refused to cooperate, she said. Mr. Lopez has offered to help mediate between those tenants and their landlord.
 Mr. Lopez, a self-described Nuyorican who says he was ''raised on both sides of the tracks'' because he grew up in the Fordham Road area of the Bronx and was educated at the Dalton School on the Upper East Side, never expected to be battling bedbugs for a living. After graduating from Amherst College in 1999 with a degree in economics, he worked as a production assistant on an HBO documentary before going to work for Little Sisters five years ago. ''When I moved to El Barrio, I didn't want to be part of the gentrification wave,'' he said, ''so I wanted to be tied into the community.''
 Although bedbugs do not transmit disease and are thus considered more a nuisance than a health threat, Mr. Lopez, who estimates that he has helped 600 victims, hears daily of the toll they can take on psyches.
 Carmen Stella, a married mother of three who lives in Thomas Jefferson Houses, a public housing project on East 115th Street, was so overwhelmed during the summer by a bedbug infestation, which forced her to throw out thousands of dollars' worth of beds and clothing, that she became ill. ''I wound up in the emergency room with shingles because of the stress,'' she said. 
 In response to her complaints, the New York City Housing Authority sent exterminators to Ms. Stella's apartment four times in August, said Howard Marder, a spokesman for the authority.
 But a week ago, her 13-year-old son, Jonathan, was bitten again. And this time she called Mr. Lopez. Last Monday, he arrived on the scene and listened intently as Ms. Stella told him she was certain that bedbugs were hiding in the electrical outlets.
 Like a latter-day Bram Stoker protagonist, he reached into his cart and withdrew neither a silver cross nor a garlic-clove necklace but a bag of something called diatomaceous earth, a mixture of the hard shells of sea creatures that slices the bodies of insects that crawl across it. With quiet confidence, Mr. Lopez put on a dust mask and carefully decanted some of the powder into a plastic container, leaving it for the Stellas to place in the electrical sockets.
 ''To me he's a savior,'' Ms. Stella said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: LONE RANGER -- Ray Lopez, self-taught bedbug fighter, plying his trade in East Harlem. (Photographs by James Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BED BUGS (94%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CATS (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (72%); CITIES (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (65%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (65%); EPILEPSY (60%) Bedbugs

ORGANIZATION: Little Sisters of the Assumption Family Health Services

PERSON: Ray Lopez; John Freeman Gill

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



20 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 238 words

HEADLINE: Help the Poor. All of Them. 

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''The Mayor's War on Poverty'' (editorial, Sept. 24) appropriately praises the mayor's Commission for Economic Opportunity for its systematic plan to reduce poverty. However, its limited vision for the nation's wealthiest and most unequal city is disappointing. 
 The commission's focus on children under 5, working poor adults and young people out of work and school perpetuates the unfair distinction between ''deserving'' and ''undeserving'' poor. Further, this choice includes only half of those living in poverty. This segmentation makes it harder to tackle the real causes of poverty: low wages, insufficient jobs, inadequate schools and poor health.
The mayor and City Council can get at poverty's roots by joining other cities in passing living wage laws. Businesses can increase wages and benefits for low-paid workers. City agencies can reduce the obstacles they erect for people seeking to escape poverty. Schools can make improving completion rates a top priority, and City University can restore affordable tuition. 
 Finally, the city can develop comprehensive plans to help poor people manage the health problems that interfere with employment. 
 The mayor and the City Council should expand the commission's tentative steps and commit our city to joining the global effort to make poverty history. 

Nicholas Freudenberg
Washington Heights

The writer is a professor of public health at Hunter College.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (96%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LIVING WAGE (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); TUITION FEES (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); WRITERS (73%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (69%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Children and Youth; Editorials

PERSON: Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Nicholas Freudenberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



21 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; STREET LEVEL: Greenwich Village; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: The Kids of Christopher Street

BYLINE: By STEVEN KURUTZ. 
E-mail: streetlevel@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IF some out-of-town visitors had stood on Christopher Street on Wednesday evening, they might have thought they had stumbled upon a ragtag, two-way parade. All night long, a steady stream of gay teenagers, many black and Latino, clustering in small groups and shouting to friends, walked up and down Christopher Street, headed to and from Pier 45.
 Many of these gay teenagers live outside Manhattan and are drawn to the Village as a secret haven. 
''I've been coming here for a few months now,'' said a Latino boy wearing a royal blue cap and a pink polo shirt, who would identify himself only as Jonathan because his father back in Astoria did not know he was gay. ''If you're gay, you can't show yourself to everybody. A friend from school told me about the pier. They said I could be myself.''
 But if the so-called pier kids are attracted to the Village, some Village residents and workers are not happy about their presence, complaining about sleepless nights, open-air drug dealing and public urination.
 ''They have no manners,'' said Ahmed Mouhed, 40, resting between customers at the counter in Shada Deli and Grocery on Christopher Street, the last deli before the water. ''They're loud. They're a lot of trouble.''
 Many suggestions for easing the conflict have been made, but so far, no answer has satisfied residents while grappling successfully with the complex issues of the gay teenagers, some of them homeless or truant. But Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker, has a plan.
 Ms. Quinn's idea offers something for both sides. To appease residents, the police presence around the pier would be increased, with up to eight officers patrolling the area overnight from Thursdays to Sundays. To help the teenagers, staff members from a youth aid organization called the Door have begun visiting the pier from 11 p.m. to 1:30 a.m., counseling the youths about issues like HIV testing. The Door is receiving $157,500 from the city to cover its program through June.
 ''We can't prevent every last incident from happening, but we will try to create an atmosphere of mutual respect,'' said Kate Gunther, the group's director of development. The Door also has a youth center several blocks away on Broome Street, which will stay open two nights a week until 10, two hours later than usual. The center has a weight room and a dance studio, and it stages activities like fashion shows put on by gay teenagers.
 But Bob Kohler, a retired theatrical agent and veteran gay rights campaigner who lives on Charles Street, dismissed the plan on both its counts. ''We'll be tripping over cops,'' he said of the beefed-up police presence. As for the Door and its work, he said, ''The problems happen after 1 a.m., when the pier closes and the kids have nowhere to go.'' 
 Like Mr. Kohler, some teenagers seemed skeptical, too. When asked about the Door, one boy, who was wearing a baggy white T-shirt and sitting on a bench at the edge of the pier, rolled his eyes and said, ''Whatever.'' 
 But others are positive. ''I don't see the new plan as a be-all, end-all,'' said Steve Ashkinazy, a member of Community Board 2. ''But I think it's a step in the right direction.''
 Ms. Quinn, whose Council district includes the area, defends her plan, seeing it as different from previous proposals to ease the friction. ''There has never, as far as I can recall, been a moment when we did both simultaneously in a focused way,'' she said of the two-pronged police-and-outreach approach.
 The pier itself has been transformed in recent years, and the changes have heightened tensions between residents and the pier kids. Once a crumbling and desolate area that gay men and teenagers claimed for themselves and fashioned into a sort of West Side Casbah, the pier has become a buzzing, crowded part of Hudson River Park.
 On Wednesday evening, people whizzed by on Rollerblades and members of a group called Jews for Racial and Economic Justice gathered on the lush green lawn for a religious ritual tied to the Jewish New Year. Nearby, as a reminder of the pier's historical role, two young Latina women walked hand in hand toward the edge of the pier, as a breeze blew in off the Hudson River. 
 ''For a place that seems so pretty when you first go down there,'' Mr. Kohler said, ''it's really a hotbed of controversy.''


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Jessica Dimmock for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); AIDS & HIV (77%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (77%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (77%); CHILDREN (73%); CITIES (73%); LGBT RIGHTS (72%); FASHION & APPAREL (69%); HOMELESSNESS (69%); POLICE FORCES (68%); DANCE EDUCATION (68%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (66%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (64%); FASHION SHOWS (60%); AIDS & HIV TESTING (50%) Homosexuality; Children and Youth; Homeless Persons

ORGANIZATION: Door (Orgn)

PERSON: Christine C (Councilwoman) Quinn; Steven Kurutz

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; Greenwich Village

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



22 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: End of the Road for Glamour on Wheels

BYLINE: By Jamie Lincoln Kitman. 
Jamie Lincoln Kitman, a lawyer, is the New York bureau chief for Automobile Magazine and the United States editor for Top Gear, a British magazine.

DATELINE: Nyack, N.Y. 

 BODY:
NOT unlike the decommissioning of London's red Routemaster buses last year, the demise of the Lincoln Town Car -- widely forecast after the announcement by Lincoln's parent, Ford Motor Company, that it will soon close the Wixom, Mich., plant that builds the long-lived luxury sedan -- has opened the floodgates of wistful remembrance for a city of closet transport watchers. 
 In New York City, where they have served as a primary means of transport for generations of bankers, lawyers and harried magazine editors, Town Cars have always struck a more patrician note than London's egalitarian, double-decked emblem. No mere public conveyance, the Lincoln has resided in a rarefied world that no bus (or subway) ever could, occupying a space one large step up the transport food chain from the Ford taxis to which it is so closely related. 
 In a city fascinated by wealth, celebrity and power, the Town Car -- invariably painted black and tended, behind smoked power windows, by neatly coiffed and nattily attired drivers -- has marked a grace note and reward for those of accomplishment, a ride which suggests nothing more than privilege, including the privilege of being forced to work late (again) or getting to travel to La Guardia Airport at rush hour to begin a soul-crushing business trip to Cincinnati.
 As one whose lifelong fascination with automobiles improbably began on the streets of New York City, I, too, am hard-pressed to keep nostalgia at bay for the Town Car's imminent passing, although, it must be said, I've not ridden in the back of many.
 To be fair, we'll not lose the Town Car right away. If New York's immutable code of the road remains true to form, today's shiny Town Car will be tomorrow's battle-scarred livery cab, plying the outer boroughs, a shadow of its former self, for some time to come. 
 If only the passing of the Town Car meant that drunken investment bankers would no longer be able to descend en masse at preferred eateries after closing big deals, one might even make the case that the Lincoln's exit was worth it. But a new motorized conveyance will soon appear that is capable of filling the Town Car's ample shoes. 
 The key parameters for New York's new limo of choice will be set, as always, by the city's fleet operators, to include not only sufficient presence and heft, but also economy, meaning any replacement must be cheap to buy, cheap to run and reliable. On all these scores, the Town Car's direct association with the Ford Crown Victoria, whose roots may be traced back to the 1970's, made it a winner. No special degrees are required for those who maintain and repair Town Cars; replacement parts are cheap and readily available.
 As long as gasoline prices go no higher, all these factors point to the big S.U.V.'s, which Detroit continues to build, as the Town Car's likely replacement. With their solid rear axles and primitive yet rugged ''body-on-frame'' construction, these are (save the Crown Victoria and most pickup trucks) the last vehicles to employ the Old World engineering and construction methods for which the Town Car has become a geriatric icon. 
 But, more than anything, the death of the Town Car is a conspicuous nail in the coffin of the body-on-frame car. Body-on-frame construction, whose history dates back to horse carriages, was Detroit's ticket to success in its heyday. This type of construction remained its preferred formula long after the rest of the civilized world had ditched it in favor of lighter, stronger and safer monocoque construction, which dispensed with the old-fashioned, separate frame in favor of a boxlike ''unibody.'' 
 Though it has experimented widely, Detroit never fully cottoned to the unibody the way Japanese and European manufacturers did, unibodies being more expensive to engineer and build and more complex to redesign than the tried and true body on frame. Indeed, its lasting fascination with body on frame led Detroit to misguidedly champion the S.U.V. -- a passenger transportation device built on the frame of a pickup truck -- that allowed the industry to once more recycle the production lines and engineering nous it historically relied on. It was this willingness to leave well enough alone long after others had moved on that has seen Lincoln selling the backward Town Car several decades later, at a price fleet owners loved to pay -- as little as possible.
 Unfortunately, aside from a few bluehairs in Florida, the rest of the car-buying public share neither the priorities of airport limousine services nor the patriotic buying policies of government agencies. They don't buy Town Cars anymore, no matter how cheap, even with as much as $7,500 cash rebates now available to individuals who wish to purchase them (fleet buyers demand and receive much larger discounts.) So while the prospect of the Town Car's final days make us think of New York City, it reminds us more of the last gasp of another great town: Detroit.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 15, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An Op-Ed article on Oct. 1, about the Lincoln Town Car, suggested that Ford may end production of the car. Although the factory in Wixom, Mich., where the Town Car is built, will close, Ford has said that it is transferring production to Ontario.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Frank Stockton)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); SEDANS (77%); CLOSINGS (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (70%); RESTAURANTS (68%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (60%) Automobiles

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (95%)

ORGANIZATION: Lincoln Division of Ford Motor Co

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (95%); F (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (95%)

PERSON: Jamie Lincoln Kitman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



23 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: Road to Progress, or End of a Rural Lifestyle?

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

DATELINE: Moorefield, W.Va. 

 BODY:
OWN a piece of West Virginia!'' urges a billboard along a winding two-lane road here in rural Hardy County, 111 miles west of Washington. Rolling farmland and gracious plantation estates dating back to the early 1800's increasingly share the Appalachian Mountain landscape with sections of Corridor H, a four-lane federal road planned in the mid-1960's but only now being built. 
 Part of the national defense highway program during the cold war, Corridor H was intended to provide an escape route from the nation's capital in case of an emergency. These days, some residents here in the still-sleepy town of Moorefield, the county seat, consider it to be more of a conduit for urban sprawl than an evacuation route.
As the billboard suggests, subdivided lots of former plantation land are for sale in Hardy County, at prices appealing to several groups: residents of Washington and northern Virginia looking for a parcel that they can afford outside of a metropolitan area; retailers like Wal-Mart, which recently opened one of its super discount stores on a local hayfield; and local manufacturers, including a poultry processing company and a large cabinetmaker. 
 Renick Williams, 71, a farmer whose ancestors were among the first European settlers in West Virginia, says he believes in changing with the times. He sold the hayfield to Wal-Mart and has built a hotel and a multiscreen movie theater in Moorefield. 
 ''I love farming, but things are changing around here,'' Mr. Williams said, ''and if my family doesn't take advantage of that, then someone else will.'' 
 Mr. Williams and his two sons and son-in-law own the RCS Land Company, which holds about 5,000 acres of undeveloped land, and is subdividing and selling parcels of 1.5 acres or more for about $30,000 each to developers and investors. In a 24-parcel subdivision the company created two years ago, more than half of the lots have been sold, he said.
 But for those who want to preserve a rural way of life in Hardy County, where stretches of open space roll uninterrupted into mountainsides, the new push for development is unwelcome. The 584-square-mile county has a population of about 13,000, or about 22 people per square mile, according to the latest census data. ''This is a really, really pretty area, one of the few untouched areas we have left, and it's going to be ruined just like the rest of the country,'' said Diane Hypes, news editor of The Moorefield Examiner and Hardy County News, a weekly newspaper. 
 Ms. Hypes lives on 80 mountaintop acres in Hardy County that she bought 18 years ago for $46,000. She said she was recently offered $250,000 for the property, but refused to sell it.
 She is opposed to the four-lane, $2 billion Corridor H project and has recused herself from writing any articles about it in the newspaper, instead hiring a correspondent to cover the topic.
 Tim Ramsey, an owner of Lost River Real Estate in Hardy County, said there has been ''almost a land rush'' in the area since the terrorist attacks of 2001. His customers -- among them second-home owners, retirees and workers who telecommute part of the week from Hardy County and spend only a few days in Washington -- are buying up land as a safe haven. Two-bedroom, two-bath mountain cabins on five acres sell for about $200,000 to $300,000, he said.
 A year after the attacks, Mr. Ramsey himself moved out of Washington and opened his real estate office, along with a restaurant and a motel, in Lost River, which is named for a river that disappears into the ground at one point and emerges several miles downstream. 
 Neda Akbarzadeh, 33, who lives in Fairfax, Va., and is a project manager for a government consulting firm in Washington, owns 20 acres in Hardy County that she recently bought for $70,000. She plans to build a small cabin there among the trees.
 Ms. Akbarzadeh sold property in Greenbriar, farther west in West Virginia, because the advent of Corridor H has reduced travel time from Northern Virginia to less than two hours, making it a more desirable place for a second home, she said. And while she is not against subdividing land, she said, she is opposed to new owners who come in and strip the land of its trees.
 For Hardy County officials like Harold K. Michael, a representative to the West Virginia House of Delegates, eventual economic development of the rural Appalachian area is the greatest potential benefit of Corridor H, which begins at Wardensville in West Virginia and will eventually end 110 miles west in Elkins. 
 The corridor has many sections built but is not complete yet, and opponents have fought its progress, claiming it is environmentally invasive and calling it the ''road to nowhere,'' because it does not directly connect to Virginia. 
 Mr. Michael holds a different view. ''The road is opening up the northern panhandle of West Virginia,'' he said. ''And while it may not go anywhere at the moment, it will. For now, it's stirred a lot of interest in real estate and changed the internal commute patterns of the county. People used to go to Virginia to work and shop, and now they're staying in the county to do those things.''
 Another plus, Mr. Michael said, is the fact that the road is relieving traffic on local routes that wind along river beds. They are often the site of serious accidents involving cars and trucks transporting supplies to and from Hardy County factories, like Pilgrim's Pride, a major chicken processing company, and American Woodmark, which builds kitchen and bath cabinets.
 ''It's also ironic,'' he added, ''that Corridor H may still be called upon as an escape route in a major emergency to transport six to eight million people out of the D.C. area to West Virginia.''
 All of the economic optimism notwithstanding, the issue of urban sprawl hangs heavy on planners, like Mallie J. Combs-Snider, executive director of the Hardy County Rural Development Authority, the economic development organization for the county. 
 One concern is that as the cost of residential real estate rises, factory workers who live in the area could be priced out of homeownership, she said. The addition of work force housing to the current stock of homes is a major item on the agenda, she said.
 Another is the preservation of agricultural land, although that may be a more difficult goal because of its voluntary nature. 
 ''Our goal is to encourage property owners to save as much farmland as possible, and toward that end, we're offering tax-break incentives,'' she said. ''But it isn't a mandatory program, and we can only encourage land-banking.''
 The highway, which weaves like a sleek band through the misty mountain ridge line, is to some a beautiful sight and a feat of modern highway engineering. 
 One who sees it that way is Kenneth W. Dyche, executive director of the Region 8 Planning and Development Council, a state group created to encourage economic growth. 
 ''Yes, urban sprawl is in all honesty a worry,'' Mr. Dyche said. ''But on the other hand, the highway has opened up scenic mountaintop vistas I never knew were here, and I've been a resident of this area for 30 years.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 8, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A map with a National Perspectives article last Sunday about development along Corridor H, a highway in West Virginia, erroneously included a symbol for a Highway 9 in Virginia.

GRAPHIC: Photos: MOUNTAIN CONFLICT -- The Corridor H highway, still under construction, left, is spurring development in rural West Virginia. But residents like Diane Hypes, far left, think the highway will adversely alter the area's way of life. Renick and Robert Williams, pictured left and right below, are selling off pieces of undeveloped land. (Photographs by Jeff Swensen for The New York Times)Map of West Virginia shows Corridor H.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); COUNTIES (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); MOUNTAINS (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); CITIES (74%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (73%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (73%); RETAILERS (73%); COLD WAR (71%); POULTRY (68%); POULTRY PROCESSING (66%); CENSUS (63%); POPULATION DENSITY (58%) Roads and Traffic; Security and Warning Systems; Area Planning and Renewal

PERSON: Elsa Brenner

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (95%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) West Virginia; Moorefield (W Va); Hardy County (W Va); Appalachian Region

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



24 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 4; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Financing a Vacation Home 

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
THE American dream used to include owning a house. Now, it's owning two.
 Vacation homes, once the sole province of the upper classes, are increasingly becoming standard fare for mainstream Americans. According to a study earlier this year by the National Association of Realtors, there are nearly seven million vacation homes in the United States, compared with roughly 75 million owner-occupied houses -- a significant jump from decades past, the association said.
Much of that surge is from investors who have pinned their hopes on a rising real estate market. But in recent years lenders have also made it easier to finance vacation homes. 
 ''In most situations, the interest rate on a second home is the same as a primary residence,'' said Doug Perry, a senior vice president at Countrywide Home Loans, one of the nation's biggest lenders. ''And you can get a loan with 5 percent down. That's a change from 5, 10 years ago.''
 Mr. Perry said that lenders once evaluated loans on second homes in a manner similar to rental properties, which tend to carry more risk and therefore higher interest rates and down-payment requirements. ''It's an acknowledgment that people have more second homes now,'' he said. ''It used to be reserved for the very affluent, but it's becoming somewhat common now.''
 According to the Realtors' group, of the owners who have bought vacation homes since 2003, 23 percent used the proceeds from other real estate sales to finance their purchases, and 19 percent used equity or sales proceeds from their primary residences.
 Those who are considering taking equity out of their primary homes to buy vacation homes should consider refinancing their existing mortgages and taking cash out to provide the down payment on the second home, instead of taking a second mortgage or a home-equity line on the primary residence, said Don Romano, the president of the Shelter Rock Mortgage Corporation in Lake Success, N.Y. 
 ''Second mortgages carry a higher interest rate than a first mortgage, and credit lines leave you exposed to interest-rate changes,'' Mr. Romano said. ''So keeping your existing low-interest-rate first mortgage can actually be more expensive than refinancing it.''
 Aside from the obvious psychological benefits of owning a getaway home, vacation properties offer tax advantages as well. Mortgage interest is tax-deductible as long as the borrower's total mortgage liability does not exceed $1 million. If so, the interest on the first $1 million is still tax-deductible.
 There are caveats. For instance, the more often a vacation home is rented, the less mortgage interest can be deducted, said Tom Ochsenschlager, a vice president of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. But if the owner rents the house for 14 days or fewer, there is typically no penalty. (As with all tax laws, some exceptions apply.) 
 When a vacation house is bought by several people -- two couples, perhaps -- tax deductions are simply split in line with the ownership shares, he added.
 But too often couples or disparate family members do not weigh the factors that can complicate multiparty vacation home ownership, said Mr. Romano of Shelter Rock. Among other things, if one person has a credit rating that is significantly different from those of the other prospective owners, snags can result.
 Mr. Romano said that he discusses how one person's financial situation could affect his or her ability to carry the costs of the venture and how it could raise the borrowing cost for the whole group. 
 ''If there are any rough spots, having that discussion focuses light on them, and they either address things, or they don't go through with it,'' he said. ''People don't want to jeopardize their personal relationships because of this.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); SECOND MORTGAGES (77%); HOME EQUITY CREDIT LINES (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING (75%); EXECUTIVES (68%); ACCOUNTING (50%) Housing; Mortgages

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (58%)

PERSON: Bob Tedeschi

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



25 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Editorial Desk; Op-Chart; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: The State of Iraq: An Update

BYLINE: By NINA KAMP, MICHAEL O'HANLON AND AMY UNIKEWICZ. 
Nina Kamp is a senior research assistant at the Brookings Institution in Washington. Michael O'Hanlon is a senior fellow at Brookings and the co-author of ''Hard Power.'' Amy Unikewicz is a graphic designer in South Norwalk, Conn. Andrew Kamons of Brookings assisted in researching the chart.

 BODY:
FACTS have a way of shrinking under the weight of politics. The fierce partisan debate last week set off by the new National Intelligence Estimate on the struggle against terrorism was a case in point. Similarly, our own tracking statistics from the last four years in Iraq will provide ammunition for both supporters and critics of the war. But one fact seems clear: this year's violence was the worst since liberation, and probably the worst over all since 1991. 
 American troop fatalities, thankfully, declined somewhat this summer, but it is hard to view that as a positive development since much of the modest improvement was due to the reduced rate of American patrols (down from a daily average of 400 to, in the last year, 100 a year). When American forces do venture out of their base, they are in as much peril as ever. Similarly, the drastic falloff in kidnappings of foreigners primarily reflects the fact that foreigners now rarely leave the Green Zone in Baghdad. Iraqis continue to be kidnapped in large numbers.
While the economy is far from healthy, it has shown some improvement. Oil production has returned, at least for the moment, to levels seen at the end of Saddam Hussein's rule, and electricity production is at higher levels, especially outside of Baghdad. School enrollment continues to increase; childhood vaccination rates are now respectable; Iraq's media continue to flourish. 
 However, unemployment remains at 30 percent or more, as coalition and Iraqi authorities continue to resist the notion of adopting a Roosevelt-style public works program to mitigate joblessness. Inflation is up; private sector investment remains weak because of the security environment; gross domestic product growth has been modest and will probably slow because of the decline in global oil prices. Fuel supplies are stagnant in the face of rising demand.
 Public optimism has rebounded a bit since spring, especially among Shiites and Kurds. But Iraqi optimism about the future is still not where it once was. Nor is it clear on what that optimism is based. The Iraqi government continues to flounder in attempts to rein in militias, ensure fair distribution of the nation's future oil revenue, rehabilitate former low-level Baathists into public life and rebuild the economy. On balance, the data suggest that while Iraq is not lost, the United States and its allies there are hardly winning either. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); TERRORISM (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); VACCINES (53%); INFRASTRUCTURE (52%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Bombs and Explosives; Kidnapping

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%) Nina Kamp; Michael O'Hanlon; Amy Unikewicz

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (95%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



26 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: As Competition Builds, So Do Colleges

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
ON local streets, new home and business construction may be leveling off, but it is booming on college campuses across the region.
 Educators and real estate analysts say that colleges and universities, public and private, big and small, are adding classrooms, dormitories, student centers and athletic centers at a scope and rate that have not been seen in decades. While students consider many factors when choosing a college, educators say that first-rate physical facilities are becoming increasingly important in attracting students.
 ''It's not always because a school is cheap or that their dad went there,'' said David A. Cain, a vice president at Carter & Burgess, a consulting firm in Fort Worth that advises colleges on building programs. ''Facilities do matter.'' 
 Under pressure to compete for students, Iona College, a 3,000-student Roman Catholic school in New Rochelle, N.Y., recently spent $26 million on two major buildings for its compact 36-acre main campus. 
 At the Hynes Athletic Center, which opened in January next to the Mulcahy Campus Events Center, there are classrooms for activities like Irish step dancing and rowing tanks for crew; the centers boast 109,000 square feet of athletic space. Across the football field is the Robert V. LaPenta Student Union, which opened a year ago, with a dining hall, radio station and bookstore.
 To pay for the buildings, Iona began an $83 million capital campaign -- the first in the college's 66-year history, said Brother James Liguori, its president.
 The buildings were necessary to compete for students who might otherwise attend rival colleges in the area, like Siena, Marist or St. John's, he said. Iona is locked in an ''arms race'' with those schools, Mr. Liguori said, with each trying to outdo the others.
 ''What one does, everyone has to do, and it puts tremendous pressure on us,'' he said. ''But if we are going to compete, we need to accommodate.'' 
 Like Iona, which charges about $32,500 a year for tuition, room and board, many colleges are financing large-scale expansions by going to alumni for big-ticket gifts. Others are issuing bonds, petitioning the state for money or increasing tuition -- or, more often, a combination.
 Given the economic and demographic trends, college administrators say this is the time to expand. 
 Enrollment tends to increase when the economic outlook is uncertain, college officials say, and there will soon be more people of college age. Projections from the National Center for Education Statistics released in September say that enrollment nationwide will increase 13 percent over the next seven years.
 Betting that the swelling number of students will translate into increased demand, Montclair State University, with 16,000 students in Montclair, N.J., is rushing to burnish its 234-acre, Spanish-mission-style campus. Since 1999, it has spent $144 million to more than double the space in its campus buildings, to 3 million square feet from 1.3 million. 
 Montclair State is building a $28 million recreation center with a six-lane swimming pool, racquetball courts and a cafe that will open next spring. That will join the seven-story, $80 million University Hall, which added 40 percent more classroom space when it opened in January.
 ''I don't think there's a lot you can do in higher education these days without state-of-the-art facilities,'' said Susan Cole, who has been Montclair State's president for eight years and who has made increasing enrollment a priority.
 Yet historical trends are working against her. New Jersey sends more high-school graduates out of state than any other, 32,000 a year, and attracts only 5,600, Dr. Cole said.
 At the same time, she said that New Jersey had been frugal in supporting its eight public colleges; for instance, it has kicked in only $18 million since 1999 for new buildings at Montclair. And the state recently cut $80 million from next year's budget for higher education.
 So, colleges often borrow heavily to build. Montclair State, for example, borrowed $113 million of the $144 million building costs. That debt, however, is passed on to students in their tuition, which at Montclair State totals $8,300, including fees. 
 Not everyone agrees that the building boom is in students' best interests. ''Students could be paying off debt for decades,'' said Allison Cairo, director of the New Jersey Public Interest Research Group. ''It's a huge burden in terms of what types of careers they can go into. Government and universities need to make it more affordable, not less affordable, for kids to go to college.''
 Whether schools are building to handle increased numbers of students or more students are going because of the new buildings is a chicken-or-egg question. 
 Administrators at Quinnipiac University, a private liberal-arts college with 7,400 students in Hamden, Conn., which is more than doubling its physical size with its new 240-acre York Hill campus, say the expansion is about meeting existing demand.
 Plans include the TD Banknorth Sports Center, a hockey and basketball arena that will open at the end of January. Quinnipiac is also set to feature a student center, a science center and 2,225 parking spaces. 
 York Hill will also include 21 dorms for 1,450 beds, a chance to relocate students from housing in residential neighborhoods.
 ''One of our difficulties has always been making more and better housing available,'' said Lynn Bushnell, a university spokeswoman. 
 Administrators said some of the cost of Quinnipiac's $400 million expansion, financed by fund-raising and bonds, would undoubtedly be passed on to students, whose tuition already clocks in at $36,980 a year.
 However, ''the financing plan associated with the York Hill project has yet to be fully developed,'' Patrick Healy, the senior vice president for finance, said in an e-mail message.
 FROM a state's perspective, improving a campus can boost the state's economy, educators say. The return is a well-educated work force that takes jobs in the area.
 This was the rationale behind a capital program begun in New York in 1998 for the state university system's aging and outdated buildings, said David Henahan, a State University of New York spokesman.
 One SUNY campus that has been a noticeable recipient is Farmingdale State, on the Suffolk-Nassau border.
 A $19.7 million science center is rising next to the glass-fronted Broad Hollow Bioscience Park, which opened in 2001. Last year, Farmingdale cut the ribbon on its first dorm in 30 years, the gold-and-gray Orchard Hall, which houses 392 students. And a $21.7 million student union is moving ahead.
 For a campus encircled by acres of asphalt, the new real estate may already be helping produce tangible results; applications have jumped 65 percent since 2001, said Kathy Coley, the Farmingdale spokeswoman. 
 ''We build because they already have come,'' Ms. Coley said, ''and so they will come.''

Building All Over
 Here is a cross-section of building projects on campuses across the New York metropolitan area.

MONTCLAIR STATE -- Montclair, N.J. $144 million, classrooms, dormitories, arts theater

WILLIAM PATERSON -- Wayne, N.J. $165 million, classrooms, dormitories, student center

HUDSON COMMUNITY COLLEGE -- Jersey City. $55 million, new campus

UNION COUNTY COLLEGE -- Elizabeth, N.J. $18 million, new campus

QUINNIPIAC -- Hamden, Conn. $400 million, new campus

STONY BROOK -- Stony Brook, N.Y. $85 million, new campus, labs

HOFSTRA -- Hempstead, N.Y. $48 million, classrooms, theater, dormitory, pedestrian bridge, library renovation

ADELPHI -- Garden City, N.Y. $94 million, classrooms, performance space, athletic center

FARMINGDALE STATE -- Farmingdale, N.Y. $41 million, academic buildings, student center, dormitory

IONA -- New Rochelle, N.Y. $28 million, athletic center, student center, dormitories


GRAPHIC: Photos: FIRST RATE -- Montclair State University's $28 million student recreation center is scheduled to open next spring. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)
 ARMS RACE -- The rowing machine in Iona's new Hynes Athletic Center. (Photo by Susan Farley for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT HOUSING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); CITIES (79%); FUNDRAISING (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); TRENDS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); BONDS (77%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); STATISTICS (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); PHILANTHROPY (65%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (60%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (53%); RELIGION (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Colleges and Universities; Building (Construction); Finances; Philanthropy; Tuition; Dormitories; Colleges and Universities; Colleges and Universities; Building (Construction); Finances; Philanthropy; Tuition; Dormitories; Colleges and Universities

PERSON: C J Hughes; C J Hughes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City Metropolitan Area; New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



27 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: Hustle and Flow in Yonkers

 BODY:
Gov. George Pataki went to Yonkers last week and announced that the state would spend $34 million to expose the Saw Mill River to daylight. It would mean ripping up thousands of feet of concrete and blacktop under which the river now slinks unseen into the Hudson. A drainage culvert would thus become a second riverfront, with shady walkways and the burble of flowing water through the heart of downtown. 
 Of all the development projects being dreamed up for this proud but slightly sagging city -- and there are a great many -- the ''daylighting'' of the Saw Mill might have the richest combination of exemplary traits, qualities that should guide any effort by a community to reinvent itself. First, it's democratic, creating a public amenity that charges no admission while promising to greatly enhance life downtown for everyone. It's respectful of history -- downtown and the river have not been acquainted for many generations -- and the environment. Finally, it's unexpected, even a little audacious, using the imaginative thinking not always associated with contemporary urban planning, which too frequently involves a depressingly similar mix of big-box retail stores and cookie-cutter housing and offices.
But the rest of Yonkers's renewal plans may be another story. Huge changes are coming to this little city, from Ridge Hill in the north, where Bruce Ratner wants to build a $600 million ''village'' of shops, apartments and offices, down to the Hudson, where Collins Enterprises is erecting the second phase of a complex of hundreds of luxury apartments and a renovated ferry terminal will start sending commuters to and from Manhattan in the spring. 
 The biggest chunk in this wholesale overhaul is a $3.1 billion partnership of three developers -- Cappelli Enterprises of Valhalla; Struever Brothers Eccles & Rouse of Baltimore and Fidelco Realty Group of Millburn, N.J. -- to bring homes, offices and stores across dozens of acres downtown. The developers have a pedigree (Cappelli Enterprises has helped make downtown White Plains gleam again, and the other developers have created admired projects in places like Baltimore, Providence and Newark), but it's too soon to tell whether all the moving parts will add up to a successful whole.
 The most troubling component of the plans is a riverfront high-rise that threatens to be 30 stories tall and loom over the water like a misplaced and stranded chunk of lower Manhattan. The environmental group Scenic Hudson, which has long been a voice for sensible and proportional development, opposes the tower at that oppressive height, and the City Council and mayor should listen to its concerns. 
 Yonkers is a big city, but one of its most lovable traits is its small-town density and intimacy, the hustle and flow of its streets lined with mom-and-pop shops and its funky aura of bygone heavy industry. The people guiding Yonkers's renewal should not forget that the best kind of development -- like the long-overdue return of the Saw Mill River -- takes place on a humble, human scale. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); MAYORS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); RETAILERS (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Area Planning and Renewal; Editorials

COMPANY: STRUEVER BROTHERS ECCLES & ROUSE INC (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (92%) Yonkers (NY); Saw Mill River

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



28 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Don't Let Divorce Off the Hook

BYLINE: By Robin Fretwell Wilson. 
Robin Fretwell Wilson, a visiting law professor at Washington & Lee University, is the editor of ''Reconceiving the Family: Critique on the American Law Institute's Principles of the Law of Family Dissolution.''

DATELINE: Lexington, Va. 

 BODY:
NEW YORK is one of the few states without unilateral no-fault divorce, which means that New York couples can get a no-fault divorce only by mutual agreement. 
 Judith Kaye, New York State's chief judge, set out to change all that. Earlier this year, the matrimonial commission she formed recommended that the state enact full unilateral no-fault divorce. Judge Kaye highlighted the proposal in her annual address about the state of the judiciary, and the idea was promptly endorsed by the New York Bar Association and the Women's Bar Association, as well as major newspapers.
Despite all that establishment grease, no-fault divorce promptly went nowhere. While a bill was introduced in Albany, the Legislature went home in June without negotiating or making any progress on the specifics of the legislation. 
 A similar thing happened when the American Law Institute, an influential organization of lawyers, academics and judges, called on states to strip all remaining vestiges of fault from family law, even as a factor in alimony or property distribution. But six years later, not a single state has passed new legislation to eliminate fault in family law.
 Meanwhile, this summer, Louisiana became one of the first states in years to pass a major no-fault revision, in the opposite direction: creating a new one-year waiting period for no-fault divorce when couples have children younger than 18 years old, unless there is a determination of abuse in the marriage. And a group of more than 100 legal and family scholars just released a report urging legislators to consider passing extended waiting periods for no-fault divorce.
 What accounts for the new resistance to no-fault? Reasons include the growing evidence that divorce often hurts children, feminists' renewed recognition of the importance of legal protection for mothers raising children, and concerns about the economic disparities created by differences in marriage rates. Gay marriage advocates have also played a role in this shift, by calling attention to ''easy divorce,'' which they say is the real threat to marriage, not same-sex unions.
 But another reason is Americans' intimate familiarity with divorce and its consequences. As a family law scholar, I have long written about the problems with divorce, driven largely by the scholarly evidence. This past year, I joined the ranks of Americans with personal experience.
 While I was living in Maryland, my husband, from whom I am now divorced, assaulted me (an assault for which he has since been convicted). On the whole, I had been impressed by how Maryland protects victims of domestic violence. But I also came to understand why the New York chapter of the National Organization for Women has opposed Judge Kaye's unilateral divorce proposals.
 When no-fault divorce advocates say that family law should pay no attention to the reasons why a marriage ends, what does this mean in practice for modern women like me who have careers and have built assets? We are told that we should in effect have to pay our batterers for the privilege of divorcing them. That seems to me, as to many other Americans, not only bad social policy, but deeply and profoundly wrong.
 Americans care why marriages break apart. Infidelity, violence, abandonment matter. This does not mean we must uncritically embrace the old fault-based divorce laws. It does suggest we need a prudent and realistic search for new approaches to enacting our shared moral understanding of marriage. 
 Marriage should be a place where spouses can count on promises of fidelity and where spouses (and children) are physically protected. Under current New York law, fault matters to property distribution and the determination of alimony only in those exceedingly rare instances of extreme brutality that shocks the conscience. But fault includes more than extremely outrageous behavior. 
 If New York legislators go ahead and give one spouse a unilateral right to a no-fault divorce, they need to lower the threshold for considering fault in property distribution and alimony awards. Without a more sensible threshold, there can be no norms of decency within marriages and family relationships.
 Contrary to the American Law Institute and to Judge Kaye, we should recognize that often someone is at fault, and that needs to matter in the dissolution of the marriage if the law is to do justice.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (95%); FAMILY LAW (90%); FAMILY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (78%); COHABITATION (78%); SPOUSAL SUPPORT (78%); JUDGES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (75%); WOMEN (75%); LAWYERS (74%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (72%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (71%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (70%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (69%) Divorce, Separations and Annulments; Law and Legislation

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE BAR ASSOCIATION (57%); AMERICAN LAW INSTITUTE (56%)

PERSON: Robin Fretwell (Prof) Wilson

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); MARYLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



29 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Don't Let Divorce Off the Hook

BYLINE: By Robin Fretwell Wilson. 
Robin Fretwell Wilson, a visiting law professor at Washington & Lee University, is the editor of ''Reconceiving the Family: Critique on the American Law Institute's Principles of the Law of Family Dissolution.''

DATELINE: Lexington, Va. 

 BODY:
NEW YORK is one of the few states without unilateral no-fault divorce, which means that New York couples can get a no-fault divorce only by mutual agreement. 
 Judith Kaye, New York State's chief judge, set out to change all that. Earlier this year, the matrimonial commission she formed recommended that the state enact full unilateral no-fault divorce. Judge Kaye highlighted the proposal in her annual address about the state of the judiciary, and the idea was promptly endorsed by the New York Bar Association and the Women's Bar Association, as well as major newspapers.
Despite all that establishment grease, no-fault divorce promptly went nowhere. While a bill was introduced in Albany, the Legislature went home in June without negotiating or making any progress on the specifics of the legislation. 
 A similar thing happened when the American Law Institute, an influential organization of lawyers, academics and judges, called on states to strip all remaining vestiges of fault from family law, even as a factor in alimony or property distribution. But six years later, not a single state has passed new legislation to eliminate fault in family law.
 Meanwhile, this summer, Louisiana became one of the first states in years to pass a major no-fault revision, in the opposite direction: creating a new one-year waiting period for no-fault divorce when couples have children younger than 18 years old, unless there is a determination of abuse in the marriage. And a group of more than 100 legal and family scholars just released a report urging legislators to consider passing extended waiting periods for no-fault divorce.
 What accounts for the new resistance to no-fault? Reasons include the growing evidence that divorce often hurts children, feminists' renewed recognition of the importance of legal protection for mothers raising children, and concerns about the economic disparities created by differences in marriage rates. Gay marriage advocates have also played a role in this shift, by calling attention to ''easy divorce,'' which they say is the real threat to marriage, not same-sex unions.
 But another reason is Americans' intimate familiarity with divorce and its consequences. As a family law scholar, I have long written about the problems with divorce, driven largely by the scholarly evidence. This past year, I joined the ranks of Americans with personal experience.
 While I was living in Maryland, my husband, from whom I am now divorced, assaulted me (an assault for which he has since been convicted). On the whole, I had been impressed by how Maryland protects victims of domestic violence. But I also came to understand why the New York chapter of the National Organization for Women has opposed Judge Kaye's unilateral divorce proposals.
 When no-fault divorce advocates say that family law should pay no attention to the reasons why a marriage ends, what does this mean in practice for modern women like me who have careers and have built assets? We are told that we should in effect have to pay our batterers for the privilege of divorcing them. That seems to me, as to many other Americans, not only bad social policy, but deeply and profoundly wrong.
 Americans care why marriages break apart. Infidelity, violence, abandonment matter. This does not mean we must uncritically embrace the old fault-based divorce laws. It does suggest we need a prudent and realistic search for new approaches to enacting our shared moral understanding of marriage. 
 Marriage should be a place where spouses can count on promises of fidelity and where spouses (and children) are physically protected. Under current New York law, fault matters to property distribution and the determination of alimony only in those exceedingly rare instances of extreme brutality that shocks the conscience. But fault includes more than extremely outrageous behavior. 
 If New York legislators go ahead and give one spouse a unilateral right to a no-fault divorce, they need to lower the threshold for considering fault in property distribution and alimony awards. Without a more sensible threshold, there can be no norms of decency within marriages and family relationships.
 Contrary to the American Law Institute and to Judge Kaye, we should recognize that often someone is at fault, and that needs to matter in the dissolution of the marriage if the law is to do justice.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (95%); FAMILY LAW (90%); FAMILY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (78%); COHABITATION (78%); SPOUSAL SUPPORT (78%); JUDGES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (75%); WOMEN (75%); LAWYERS (74%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (72%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (71%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (70%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (69%) Divorce, Separations and Annulments; Law and Legislation

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE BAR ASSOCIATION (57%); AMERICAN LAW INSTITUTE (56%)

PERSON: Robin Fretwell (Prof) Wilson

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); MARYLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



30 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: The Homes Are Ordinary. The Book on Them Is Not.

BYLINE: By MARCELLE S. FISCHLER

 BODY:
SINCE Nancy Solomon, a folklorist, moved to Long Island from Montpelier, Vt., in 1987, she has been documenting and trying to help preserve the vernacular architecture of ordinary life.
 Working closely with local historians, she has focused on buildings constructed by American Indians, African-Americans and Dutch and English settlers, ranging from modest farmhouses and barns, gristmills and slave cabins to stores and windmills. 
''These are sites that are vanishing at a rapid pace here on Long Island due to development pressures as well as a lack of funds for preserving these homes,'' said Ms. Solomon, executive director of Long Island Traditions, a nonprofit regional folk arts and architecture organization based in Port Washington. 
 This past summer, armed with a grant from the National Endowment for the Arts and the New York Council for the Arts, Ms. Solomon wrote ''Long Island Traditional Architecture 1600 to 1870,'' a 175-page teacher's resource guide with an accompanying CD containing historical and contemporary photographs of various sites. Though geared to classroom use, it is also in demand by librarians and historians. 
 When she was growing up in Mamaroneck, N.Y., Ms. Solomon said, school lessons didn't include the places ordinary people lived. ''These are the kinds of places that never make it into the textbooks or larger volumes about Long Island architecture,'' she said. 
 For instance, the circa 1730 Suydam House in Centerport, which houses the Greenlawn-Centerport Historical Association, looks like an English frame farmhouse on the outside.
 But inside, Ms. Solomon said, it has an asymmetrical floor plan typical of that used by the Dutch of the period. 
 ''It shows the interaction between these two prominent groups that settled Long Island and how they influenced each other's building practices,'' she said. 
 The Huntington Arsenal, on Park Avenue in Huntington village, with its overhanging eave and wood shingle siding, may look like a little red tool shed, but it was originally built as a private home for Dutch residents in 1774. During the Revolutionary War it was used as a local militia arsenal, but later reverted to residential, then commercial use. It is now maintained by the town as a historic site. 
 There is a chapter on African-American culture and architecture, including the history of slavery on Long Island. 
 ''Slavery was part of the local economy well into the 1800's,'' Ms. Solomon said. The 1728 Caroline Church in Setauket, the second oldest Episcopal church in continuous use in the country, has a narrow, cramped balcony where slaves were forced to sit.
 ''The only way to get up there at that time was up a ladder,'' Ms. Solomon said. The balcony is still there, but a formal staircase has been added. 
 Ms. Solomon, who previously studied the region's maritime architecture, has been an activist in preservation, for example trying to save the cottages at West Meadow Beach in Setauket, which were torn down in 2004. 
 She hopes the new guide will spark the interest of students, especially fourth to eighth graders, in how people lived here in earlier days. 
 ''I am hoping to create a new generation of preservationists that will care not only about the fancy homes and estates but also about the farms and barns of Long Island,'' Ms. Solomon said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: PRESERVED -- The Huntington Arsenal was built as a private home in 1774. (Photo by From ''Long Island Traditional Architecture 1600 to 1870'')

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); SLAVERY (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FOLKLORE (78%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ENDOWMENTS (75%); LITERATURE (74%); TEXTBOOKS (73%); LIBRARIANS (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (51%) Architecture; Books and Literature; Indians, American; Blacks

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (56%)

PERSON: Nancy Solomon; Marcelle S Fischler

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTPELIER, VT, USA (91%) VERMONT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



31 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: As Competition Builds, So Do Colleges

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
ON local streets, new home and business construction may be leveling off, but it is booming on college campuses across the region.
 Educators and real estate analysts say that colleges and universities, public and private, big and small, are adding classrooms, dormitories, student centers and athletic centers at a scope and rate that have not been seen in decades. While students consider many factors when choosing a college, educators say that first-rate physical facilities are becoming increasingly important in attracting students.
 ''It's not always because a school is cheap or that their dad went there,'' said David A. Cain, a vice president at Carter & Burgess, a consulting firm in Fort Worth that advises colleges on building programs. ''Facilities do matter.'' 
 Under pressure to compete for students, Iona College, a 3,000-student Roman Catholic school in New Rochelle, N.Y., recently spent $26 million on two major buildings for its compact 36-acre main campus. 
 At the Hynes Athletic Center, which opened in January next to the Mulcahy Campus Events Center, there are classrooms for activities like Irish step dancing and rowing tanks for crew; the centers boast 109,000 square feet of athletic space. Across the football field is the Robert V. LaPenta Student Union, which opened a year ago, with a dining hall, radio station and bookstore.
 To pay for the buildings, Iona began an $83 million capital campaign -- the first in the college's 66-year history, said Brother James Liguori, its president.
 The buildings were necessary to compete for students who might otherwise attend rival colleges in the area, like Siena, Marist or St. John's, he said. Iona is locked in an ''arms race'' with those schools, Mr. Liguori said, with each trying to outdo the others.
 ''What one does, everyone has to do, and it puts tremendous pressure on us,'' he said. ''But if we are going to compete, we need to accommodate.'' 
 Like Iona, which charges about $32,500 a year for tuition, room and board, many colleges are financing large-scale expansions by going to alumni for big-ticket gifts. Others are issuing bonds, petitioning the state for money or increasing tuition -- or, more often, a combination.
 Given the economic and demographic trends, college administrators say this is the time to expand. 
 Enrollment tends to increase when the economic outlook is uncertain, college officials say, and there will soon be more people of college age. Projections from the National Center for Education Statistics released in September say that enrollment nationwide will increase 13 percent over the next seven years.
 Betting that the swelling number of students will translate into increased demand, Montclair State University, with 16,000 students in Montclair, N.J., is rushing to burnish its 234-acre, Spanish-mission-style campus. Since 1999, it has spent $144 million to more than double the space in its campus buildings, to 3 million square feet from 1.3 million. 
 Montclair State is building a $28 million recreation center with a six-lane swimming pool, racquetball courts and a cafe that will open next spring. That will join the seven-story, $80 million University Hall, which added 40 percent more classroom space when it opened in January.
 ''I don't think there's a lot you can do in higher education these days without state-of-the-art facilities,'' said Susan Cole, who has been Montclair State's president for eight years and who has made increasing enrollment a priority.
 Yet historical trends are working against her. New Jersey sends more high-school graduates out of state than any other, 32,000 a year, and attracts only 5,600, Dr. Cole said.
 At the same time, she said that New Jersey had been frugal in supporting its eight public colleges; for instance, it has kicked in only $18 million since 1999 for new buildings at Montclair. And the state recently cut $80 million from next year's budget for higher education.
 So, colleges often borrow heavily to build. Montclair State, for example, borrowed $113 million of the $144 million building costs. That debt, however, is passed on to students in their tuition, which at Montclair State totals $8,300, including fees. 
 Not everyone agrees that the building boom is in students' best interests. ''Students could be paying off debt for decades,'' said Allison Cairo, director of the New Jersey Public Interest Research Group. ''It's a huge burden in terms of what types of careers they can go into. Government and universities need to make it more affordable, not less affordable, for kids to go to college.''
 Whether schools are building to handle increased numbers of students or more students are going because of the new buildings is a chicken-or-egg question. 
 Administrators at Quinnipiac University, a private liberal-arts college with 7,400 students in Hamden, Conn., which is more than doubling its physical size with its new 240-acre York Hill campus, say the expansion is about meeting existing demand.
 Plans include the TD Banknorth Sports Center, a hockey and basketball arena that will open at the end of January. Quinnipiac is also set to feature a student center, a science center and 2,225 parking spaces. 
 York Hill will also include 21 dorms for 1,450 beds, a chance to relocate students from housing in residential neighborhoods.
 ''One of our difficulties has always been making more and better housing available,'' said Lynn Bushnell, a university spokeswoman. 
 Administrators said some of the cost of Quinnipiac's $400 million expansion, financed by fund-raising and bonds, would undoubtedly be passed on to students, whose tuition already clocks in at $36,980 a year.
 However, ''the financing plan associated with the York Hill project has yet to be fully developed,'' Patrick Healy, the senior vice president for finance, said in an e-mail message.
 FROM a state's perspective, improving a campus can boost the state's economy, educators say. The return is a well-educated work force that takes jobs in the area.
 This was the rationale behind a capital program begun in New York in 1998 for the state university system's aging and outdated buildings, said David Henahan, a State University of New York spokesman.
 One SUNY campus that has been a noticeable recipient is Farmingdale State, on the Suffolk-Nassau border.
 A $19.7 million science center is rising next to the glass-fronted Broad Hollow Bioscience Park, which opened in 2001. Last year, Farmingdale cut the ribbon on its first dorm in 30 years, the gold-and-gray Orchard Hall, which houses 392 students. And a $21.7 million student union is moving ahead.
 For a campus encircled by acres of asphalt, the new real estate may already be helping produce tangible results; applications have jumped 65 percent since 2001, said Kathy Coley, the Farmingdale spokeswoman. 
 ''We build because they already have come,'' Ms. Coley said, ''and so they will come.''

Building All Over
 Here is a cross-section of building projects on campuses across the New York metropolitan area.

MONTCLAIR STATE -- Montclair, N.J. $144 million, classrooms, dormitories, arts theater

WILLIAM PATERSON -- Wayne, N.J. $165 million, classrooms, dormitories, student center

HUDSON COMMUNITY COLLEGE -- Jersey City. $55 million, new campus

UNION COUNTY COLLEGE -- Elizabeth, N.J. $18 million, new campus

QUINNIPIAC -- Hamden, Conn. $400 million, new campus

STONY BROOK -- Stony Brook, N.Y. $85 million, new campus, labs

HOFSTRA -- Hempstead, N.Y. $48 million, classrooms, theater, dormitory, pedestrian bridge, library renovation

ADELPHI -- Garden City, N.Y. $94 million, classrooms, performance space, athletic center

FARMINGDALE STATE -- Farmingdale, N.Y. $41 million, academic buildings, student center, dormitory

IONA -- New Rochelle, N.Y. $28 million, athletic center, student center, dormitories


GRAPHIC: Photos: FIRST RATE -- Montclair State University's $28 million student recreation center is scheduled to open next spring. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)
 ARMS RACE -- The rowing machine in Iona's new Hynes Athletic Center. (Photo by Susan Farley for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); TRENDS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); BONDS (77%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); STATISTICS (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (60%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (53%); RELIGION (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



32 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: As Competition Builds, So Do Colleges

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
ON local streets, new home and business construction may be leveling off, but it is booming on college campuses across the region.
 Educators and real estate analysts say that colleges and universities, public and private, big and small, are adding classrooms, dormitories, student centers and athletic centers at a scope and rate that have not been seen in decades. While students consider many factors when choosing a college, educators say that first-rate physical facilities are becoming increasingly important in attracting students.
 ''It's not always because a school is cheap or that their dad went there,'' said David A. Cain, a vice president at Carter & Burgess, a consulting firm in Fort Worth that advises colleges on building programs. ''Facilities do matter.'' 
 Under pressure to compete for students, Iona College, a 3,000-student Roman Catholic school in New Rochelle, N.Y., recently spent $26 million on two major buildings for its compact 36-acre main campus. 
 At the Hynes Athletic Center, which opened in January next to the Mulcahy Campus Events Center, there are classrooms for activities like Irish step dancing and rowing tanks for crew; the centers boast 109,000 square feet of athletic space. Across the football field is the Robert V. LaPenta Student Union, which opened a year ago, with a dining hall, radio station and bookstore.
 To pay for the buildings, Iona began an $83 million capital campaign -- the first in the college's 66-year history, said Brother James Liguori, its president.
 The buildings were necessary to compete for students who might otherwise attend rival colleges in the area, like Siena, Marist or St. John's, he said. Iona is locked in an ''arms race'' with those schools, Mr. Liguori said, with each trying to outdo the others.
 ''What one does, everyone has to do, and it puts tremendous pressure on us,'' he said. ''But if we are going to compete, we need to accommodate.'' 
 Like Iona, which charges about $32,500 a year for tuition, room and board, many colleges are financing large-scale expansions by going to alumni for big-ticket gifts. Others are issuing bonds, petitioning the state for money or increasing tuition -- or, more often, a combination.
 Given the economic and demographic trends, college administrators say this is the time to expand. 
 Enrollment tends to increase when the economic outlook is uncertain, college officials say, and there will soon be more people of college age. Projections from the National Center for Education Statistics released in September say that enrollment nationwide will increase 13 percent over the next seven years.
 Betting that the swelling number of students will translate into increased demand, Montclair State University, with 16,000 students in Montclair, N.J., is rushing to burnish its 234-acre, Spanish-mission-style campus. Since 1999, it has spent $144 million to more than double the space in its campus buildings, to 3 million square feet from 1.3 million. 
 Montclair State is building a $28 million recreation center with a six-lane swimming pool, racquetball courts and a cafe that will open next spring. That will join the seven-story, $80 million University Hall, which added 40 percent more classroom space when it opened in January.
 ''I don't think there's a lot you can do in higher education these days without state-of-the-art facilities,'' said Susan Cole, who has been Montclair State's president for eight years and who has made increasing enrollment a priority.
 Yet historical trends are working against her. New Jersey sends more high-school graduates out of state than any other, 32,000 a year, and attracts only 5,600, Dr. Cole said.
 At the same time, she said that New Jersey had been frugal in supporting its eight public colleges; for instance, it has kicked in only $18 million since 1999 for new buildings at Montclair. And the state recently cut $80 million from next year's budget for higher education.
 So, colleges often borrow heavily to build. Montclair State, for example, borrowed $113 million of the $144 million building costs. That debt, however, is passed on to students in their tuition, which at Montclair State totals $8,300, including fees. 
 Not everyone agrees that the building boom is in students' best interests. ''Students could be paying off debt for decades,'' said Allison Cairo, director of the New Jersey Public Interest Research Group. ''It's a huge burden in terms of what types of careers they can go into. Government and universities need to make it more affordable, not less affordable, for kids to go to college.''
 Whether schools are building to handle increased numbers of students or more students are going because of the new buildings is a chicken-or-egg question. 
 Administrators at Quinnipiac University, a private liberal-arts college with 7,400 students in Hamden, Conn., which is more than doubling its physical size with its new 240-acre York Hill campus, say the expansion is about meeting existing demand.
 Plans include the TD Banknorth Sports Center, a hockey and basketball arena that will open at the end of January. Quinnipiac is also set to feature a student center, a science center and 2,225 parking spaces. 
 York Hill will also include 21 dorms for 1,450 beds, a chance to relocate students from housing in residential neighborhoods.
 ''One of our difficulties has always been making more and better housing available,'' said Lynn Bushnell, a university spokeswoman. 
 Administrators said some of the cost of Quinnipiac's $400 million expansion, financed by fund-raising and bonds, would undoubtedly be passed on to students, whose tuition already clocks in at $36,980 a year.
 However, ''the financing plan associated with the York Hill project has yet to be fully developed,'' Patrick Healy, the senior vice president for finance, said in an e-mail message.
 FROM a state's perspective, improving a campus can boost the state's economy, educators say. The return is a well-educated work force that takes jobs in the area.
 This was the rationale behind a capital program begun in New York in 1998 for the state university system's aging and outdated buildings, said David Henahan, a State University of New York spokesman.
 One SUNY campus that has been a noticeable recipient is Farmingdale State, on the Suffolk-Nassau border.
 A $19.7 million science center is rising next to the glass-fronted Broad Hollow Bioscience Park, which opened in 2001. Last year, Farmingdale cut the ribbon on its first dorm in 30 years, the gold-and-gray Orchard Hall, which houses 392 students. And a $21.7 million student union is moving ahead.
 For a campus encircled by acres of asphalt, the new real estate may already be helping produce tangible results; applications have jumped 65 percent since 2001, said Kathy Coley, the Farmingdale spokeswoman. 
 ''We build because they already have come,'' Ms. Coley said, ''and so they will come.''

Building All Over
 Here is a cross-section of building projects on campuses across the New York metropolitan area.
 MONTCLAIR STATE -- Montclair, N.J. $144 million, classrooms, dormitories, arts theater

WILLIAM PATERSON -- Wayne, N.J. $165 million, classrooms, dormitories, student center

HUDSON COMMUNITY COLLEGE -- Jersey City. $55 million, new campus

UNION COUNTY COLLEGE -- Elizabeth, N.J. $18 million, new campus

QUINNIPIAC -- Hamden, Conn. $400 million, new campus

STONY BROOK -- Stony Brook, N.Y. $85 million, new campus, labs

HOFSTRA -- Hempstead, N.Y. $48 million, classrooms, theater, dormitory, pedestrian bridge, library renovation

ADELPHI -- Garden City, N.Y. $94 million, classrooms, performance space, athletic center

FARMINGDALE STATE -- Farmingdale, N.Y. $41 million, academic buildings, student center, dormitory

IONA -- New Rochelle, N.Y. $28 million, athletic center, student center, dormitories


GRAPHIC: Photos: FIRST RATE -- Montclair State University's $28 million student recreation center is scheduled to open next spring. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)
 ARMS RACE -- The rowing machine in Iona's new Hynes Athletic Center. (Photo by Susan Farley for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); STUDENT HOUSING (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); TRENDS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); BONDS (77%); CITIES (74%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); STATISTICS (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (60%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); PHILANTHROPY (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (53%); RELIGION (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Colleges and Universities; Building (Construction); Finances; Philanthropy; Tuition; Dormitories; Colleges and Universities

PERSON: C J Hughes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



33 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 6; Connecticut Weekly Desk; THE WEEK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: Cold Nights Appear Later, And So Will Peak Foliage

BYLINE: By JEFF HOLTZ

 BODY:
For decades, the State Department of Environmental Protection has forecast that the peak of the foliage season is usually in the middle of October. But this year, it has changed that prediction to a week later. 
 Donald H. Smith, the state's forester, said Monday that the peak foliage this fall would most likely come around Oct. 20. He said he had based the latest prediction on recent observations.
 ''For the last four or five years, the foliage has peaked a few days later than our predictions,'' he said. ''For optimal foliage, you need cold, crisp nights, and days that are bright and warm. And the cold and crisp nights have not been coming as early.''
 Mr. Smith said degrees of foliage were subjective and not based on scientific measurements. He said the prediction could change by a day or two either way in the next couple of weeks.
 The northwest and northeast corners of the state were the best areas to see foliage, Mr. Smith said. The dominant colors can vary from one area of the state to another, he said, depending on the species of trees. 
 Janet Serra, the director of the Northwest Connecticut Convention and Visitors Bureau, said the bureau often received up to 30 phone calls a day in October, including some from California and Europe, asking about foliage conditions. She said the bureau used the D.E.P. prediction as a guide when advising callers.
 ''I think it's good news, because it will extend the season,'' she said, referring to the agency's new prediction. ''We're starting to see areas of color already.''
 Ms. Serra said the foliage season was important to the economy of the area, but could not provide specific numbers.
 ''It's the crown jewel for us, as far as when we have visitors,'' she said. ''The lodging can completely fill up.''
 The D.E.P. updates foliage conditions every Monday and Wednesday on its Web site at dep.state.ct.us. The Northwest Connecticut Convention and Visitors Bureau also suggests driving routes to view foliage on its Web site, litchfieldhills.com.
 JEFF HOLTZ

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (71%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (71%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (71%); WEB SITES (61%) Seasons and Months ; Trees and Shrubs

ORGANIZATION: Environmental Protection Department (Conn)

PERSON: Jeff Holtz

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



34 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Vanishing Venice: A City Swamped by a Sea of Tourists 

BYLINE: By ELISABETTA POVOLEDO; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: VENICE 

 BODY:
Four months ago, Mirella Dalla Pasqua, who was born and raised in this venerable city improbably built on water, did something she thought she would never do: she bought a house on the mainland.
 ''I had no choice,'' said Ms. Dalla Pasqua, 31, who now has to commute to her job in a glove shop near the Rialto. ''I'm proud to be a Venetian,'' she said, but ''house prices are impossibly high in Venice, and then you have to fix them up. Young people just can't afford that.''
 Ms. Dalla Pasqua is hardly the first Venetian to leave this sea-locked city. From a peak of 171,000 residents in 1951, the population of the historic center of Venice has fallen to fewer than 62,000. 
 ''We've reached the point of collapse, the point where things could fall apart,'' said Ezio Micelli, an urban planner who leads the municipal real estate development agency. But even as Venetians leave, tourists have been coming. And coming.
 According to recent estimates, 15 million to 18 million tourists have come to Venice over the last year. On some days they easily outnumber residents, and during the pre-Lenten Carnevale tourists can number 150,000 a day.
 Should the trend continue, newspapers fretted recently, by 2030 authentic Venetians could disappear here and the historic center could be reduced to a shell subsisting only on tourism.
 ''It's not meaningful to talk about Venice as a city anymore,'' said Robert Davis, a professor of Italian history at Ohio State University and an author of ''Venice: the Tourist Maze,'' an entertaining and thoughtful cultural critique of the tourism phenomenon. ''The city is basically already lost,'' he said. ''The speculation is what will happen to it next.''
 Venice is now largely dependent on tourism for its economic survival, even as tourists complicate daily life for most Venetians.
 ''You can't get onto a vaporetto'' -- the public transport boat that ferries people around the canals and to the various islands like Murano that also help make up Venice proper -- ''without finding it packed with tourists and their suitcases,'' grumbled Gianpietro Meneghetti, a retired bank manager. 
 He launched into a litany of grievances shared by many locals: high prices for basic foods, the inability to live normally among the interlopers.
 Stores catering to daily needs like supermarkets, shoe-repair shops and even cinemas have been steadily muscled out by shops selling Murano glass, of varying qualities, and gaudy ceramic masks that capitalize on the city's storied Carnevale festival. 
 Hotels, new bed-and-breakfasts, restaurants and snack bars have added to the space pressure, driving up the price of real estate, a resource particularly limited in Venice.
 ''Things cost too much -- if you stay, it's only because you've inherited a house,'' said Walter Pitteri, who lives in Mestre, the mainland part of greater Venice, which sprawls to the west and includes Tessera Airport and Marghera, the industrial section. 
 Driving a car, which would be futile on Venice's winding and waterbound streets if their narrowness had not already precluded it, also has its attractions, he added. ''I'd never come back,'' he said. ''I'm not interested in a city like this that's too difficult to live in.''
 Property is exceptionally expensive in Venice, with a 1,000-square-foot apartment going for up to $1.3 million in the historic center, and more on the Grand Canal, but half or a quarter of that on the terra firma across the lagoon. 
 Even that is too high for some. With few jobs apart from tourism, the population of greater Venice has also declined since its 1968 peak of 367,832. It is today just shy of 270,000, including those in the old city. 
 Something must be done to ''stop the exodus and protect the resident population,'' Mayor Massimo Cacciari said in an interview in his office, in a palazzo abutting the Grand Canal. 
 The city has set aside money to help young couples meet the high costs of rents or mortgages, but it ''barely covers a small percentage of the needs,'' Mr. Cacciari said.
 Through the municipal real estate development agency, the city is also trying to bolster the population by building 500 to 600 apartments in three far-flung areas, Santa Marta, Cannaregio and Castello, for rent to middle-class families, the group at the greatest risk of vanishing. 
 ''If you lose the middle class, you end up with polarization between the very rich and the very poor, and the city becomes unglued and falls apart,'' said Mr. Micelli, the development agency head. Similar projects in other areas of Venice, like Giudecca, have been successful, he said, slowing the exodus to the mainland and ''reinforcing the social fabric.''
 The Venetian authorities, hoping to lure new residents to the historic center, are looking at ways to develop job opportunities outside the tourist industry. ''We need new energies from outside,'' said Mara Rumiz, the Venice council member in charge of housing. The current population, she said, ''just isn't a sufficient critical mass to launch the city on a new path.''
 But attracting new businesses here has not been easy.
 ''After all, you can't build a factory here,'' Mr. Cacciari said, citing Venice's fragile ecosystem.
 Instead, the city is pressing its cultural advantages, increasing research facilities and university programs in the historic center and promoting cultural events like the Biennale art exhibition and film festival.
 There may be ways, too, to siphon more tourist money directly into city coffers. Mr. Cacciari proposes a per-night tax on tourist stays and a more nebulous tax on people who make their living from tourism to compensate the city for local services.
 ''The demand for Venice is inflexible -- rising prices won't stop it,'' said Mr. Davis, the Italian history professor. ''People will come anyway.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Tourists easily exceed residents, totaling 150,000 a day for Carnevale.
 As Venice sinks, sidewalks can at times become waterways. The city provides platforms in the old section to help tourists keep their shoes dry. (Photographs by Sandro Michahelles for The International Herald Tribune)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); HISTORIC SITES (88%); EASTER SEASON (78%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (78%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RESTAURANTS (76%); SHOE & LEATHER REPAIR (76%); FOOD PRICES (75%); TRENDS (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (73%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); TOURISM (73%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (72%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (70%); HISTORY (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); FERRIES (65%); WRITERS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (62%); DRINKING PLACES (60%) Travel and Vacations; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Geographic Profiles; Housing; Food; Renting and Leasing

PERSON: Elisabetta Povoledo

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) ITALY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) Venice (Italy); Italy; Venice (Italy)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



35 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: A Campaign Is Revived With the Help of a Stranger

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA

 BODY:
J. Christopher Callaghan, the Republican candidate for New York State comptroller, has a secret friend. 
 ''I don't know his name,'' Mr. Callaghan said in an interview.
 But one thing is clear: For some reason, he said, the person clearly despises his opponent, the incumbent, Alan G. Hevesi, a Democrat.
 It was this secret friend who whispered rumors to Mr. Callaghan that Mr. Hevesi's wife was being driven around by a state employee at taxpayer expense.
 When Mr. Callaghan made the charges public last week, his long-shot candidacy was given new life, and Mr. Hevesi was forced to apologize. The comptroller also decided to reimburse $82,000 to the state. 
 With the Republican Party's other statewide candidates either trailing badly in the polls, like John Faso, who is running for governor, or wrapped up in scandal, like Jeanine F. Pirro, Mr. Callaghan is now looking like the one bright spot for the party this year, although his candidacy is still considered a long shot.
 Until his recent troubles, Mr. Hevesi was considered a shoo-in for re-election to the job of comptroller, a post with a low profile but sizable responsibilities. Through New York's pension fund, the comptroller controls more than $120 billion in assets, more than twice the entire gross domestic product of Guatemala. The office also monitors the billions more spent by the state each year.
 Should Mr. Callaghan defy the odds, it would be quite a leap for a man whose job as Saratoga County treasurer -- a post he held from 1997 until this summer, when he decided to run -- put him in charge of about $60 million annually. But he says he is not in the least bit daunted. 
 Mr. Callaghan, 59, said he first thought about running in 2004 after Mr. Hevesi made changes to the timetable of counties' annual pension payment to the state, changes that he said ended up costing Saratoga an extra $60,000.
 Last winter, when no other Republican stepped forward to run, Mr. Callaghan figured he would challenge Mr. Hevesi.
 On the day of his nomination, he was aided by a stumble by Mr. Hevesi, who made a poorly received joke about the possibility of Senator Charles E. Schumer putting ''a bullet between the president's eyes, if he could get away with it.''
 But until this week, Mr. Callaghan has had trouble getting the attention of voters. ''It has been a struggle getting anyone to notice,'' he said.
 Which is surprising, since family and friends say that Mr. Callaghan, at 6 foot 1 and 250 pounds, is anything but a wallflower. 
 Over a pint of Guinness at the Parting Glass Pub in Saratoga, he explained that he had tried to use humor and self-deprecation to set himself apart from Mr. Hevesi.
 ''I get the impression of a guy who is smart, aggressively liberal and very, very arrogant,'' Mr. Callaghan said of his opponent, who he believes has taken his re-election for granted.
 On his Web site, Mr. Callaghan has an advertisement of himself, wearing his trademark bow tie, posing with photographs of Mr. Hevesi at various state fairs, trying to make the point that the comptroller has been absent from the campaign trial.
 Friends say the ad captures Mr. Callaghan's cheeky sense of humor.
 ''The typical bean counter he is not,'' said Gail Lyng, who along with her husband, Jim, has known the Callaghans for more than 20 years. ''He is phenomenally avant-garde.''
 He is the kind of person, Mrs. Lyng said, who will hop on the piano and belt out a song to a room full of strangers, as he once did at a town meeting in Halfmoon. He also writes limericks and plays the guitar, although not much beyond a basic strumming.
 Mr. Callaghan said he was not one to pass up a good time, but he added that in college he may have had a bit too much fun. He planned to study physics, but the gravitational pull of the keg was too strong. ''I majored in beer drinking,'' he said.
 He ended up failing and finishing college at SUNY Albany, getting a degree in the business of government in 1971.
 Throughout the 60's, he said, he remained fairly conservative, working as a longshoreman one summer to pay for school. With the encouragement of a friend of his father's, he got involved in local politics, becoming president of the Waterford Young Republicans and, after school, moving back to his hometown of Waterford. He and his wife, Liz, have three children and six grandchildren.
 His oldest son, John, 33, said he would describe his father's parenting style as ''demanding.''
 ''Me, my brother and my sister were held to a much higher standard than other kids in the neighborhood,'' he said. Nearly every night, he said, no matter how busy his father was, they sat together for dinner at 6 p.m.
 Mr. Callaghan said he held strong conservative views, but would not let that influence his work as comptroller. ''Your only policy concern should be fiscal,'' he said. 
 One of his biggest problems with Mr. Hevesi, he said, has been his use of the pension fund to push social policy. ''He decided by unilateral fiat to extend pension benefits to gay couple married in Canada,'' he said, noting other examples as well. 
 He acknowledged that it would be very difficult to unseat Mr. Hevesi. Mr. Callaghan has just one person on his staff and only about $50,000 in campaign funds, not enough to buy any television time at all.
 The Republican Party infrastructure in New York is also in rough shape and is focusing more of its resources on winning the race for attorney general and governor. 
 ''I may be the last man standing,'' he said.
 In the coming days, Mr. Callaghan plans to continue to push the theme of integrity, contrasting himself with the comptroller's use of state resources for personal purposes.
 ''I think you can't avoid taking away the impression that he can't be trusted,'' he said of his opponent. ''Here's the chief watchdog, and he had his hand in the till.''
 Mr. Hevesi's campaign staff refused to comment on any specific allegations made by Mr. Callaghan. Earlier this week, Mr. Hevesi apologized for using a public employee as a chauffeur and security guard for his wife. Although he said fears about security, his wife's ill health and his extensive travel all led to the mistake, he said his actions were inexcusable. ''I'm going to do everything I can to make up for this,'' he said. 
 While Mr. Callaghan said he might not have much money or name recognition, he said there may be more revelations yet to come from his secret friend. ''Some of what he says is cryptic,'' he said.
 As he told supporters at a fund-raiser in Saratoga on Thursday night, ''Anything can happen.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A tip from a secret friend helped J. Christopher Callaghan, above, report charges against his opponent. (Photo by Nathaniel Brooks for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); SCANDALS (78%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (76%); GOVERNORS (73%); COUNTIES (71%); ETHICS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (65%); BEER & ALE (60%) Election Issues; Ethics; Politics and Government; Chauffeurs and Drivers

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (58%) Marc Santora; J Christopher Callaghan; Alan G (Comptroller) Hevesi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



36 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1516 words

HEADLINE: In Queens, Blacks Are the Have-Nots No More

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
Across the country, the income gap between blacks and whites remains wide, and nowhere more so than in Manhattan. But just a river away, a very different story is unfolding. 
 In Queens, the median income among black households, nearing $52,000 a year, has surpassed that of whites in 2005, an analysis of new census data shows. No other county in the country with a population over 65,000 can make that claim. The gains among blacks in Queens, the city's quintessential middle-class borough, were driven largely by the growth of two-parent families and the successes of immigrants from the West Indies. Many live in tidy homes in verdant enclaves like Cambria Heights, Rosedale and Laurelton, just west of the Cross Island Parkway and the border with Nassau County.
David Veron, a 45-year-old lawyer, is one of them. He estimates that the house in St. Albans that he bought with his wife, Nitchel, three years ago for about $320,000 has nearly doubled in value since they renovated it. Two-family homes priced at $600,000 and more seem to be sprouting on every vacant lot, he says. 
 ''Southeast Queens, especially, had a heavy influx of West Indian folks in the late 80's and early 90's,'' said Mr. Veron, who, like his 31-year-old wife, was born on the island of Jamaica. ''Those individuals came here to pursue an opportunity, and part of that opportunity was an education,'' he said. ''A large percentage are college graduates. We're now maturing and reaching the peak of our earning capacity.''
 Richard P. Nathan, co-director of the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government in Albany, called Queens ''the flip side of the underclass.''
 ''It really is the best illustration that the stereotype of blacks living in dangerous, concentrated, poor, slum, urban neighborhoods is misleading and doesn't predominate,'' he said.
 Andrew A. Beveridge, a Queens College demographer who analyzed results of the Census Bureau's 2005 American Community Survey, released in August, for The New York Times, said of the trend: ''It started in the early 1990's, and now it's consolidated. They're married-couple families living the American dream in southeast Queens.''
 In 1994, an analysis for The Times found that in some categories, the median income of black households in Queens was slightly higher than that of whites -- a milestone in itself. By 2000, whites had pulled slightly ahead. But blacks have since rebounded. 
 The only other places where black household income is higher than among whites are much smaller than Queens, like Mount Vernon in Westchester, Pembroke Pines, Fla.; Brockton, Mass.; and Rialto, Calif. Most of the others also have relatively few blacks or are poor. 
 But Queens is unique not only because it is home to about two million people, but also because both blacks and whites there make more than the national median income, about $46,000.
 Even as blacks have surged ahead of whites in Queens, over all they have fallen behind in Manhattan. With the middle class there shrinking, those remaining are largely either the wealthy, who are predominantly white, or the poor, who are mostly black and Hispanic, the new census data shows.
 Median income among blacks in Manhattan was $28,116, compared with $86,494 among whites, the widest gap of any large county in the country.
 In contrast, the middle-class black neighborhoods of Queens evoke the ''zones of emergence'' that nurtured economically rising European immigrants a century ago, experts say. ''It's how the Irish, the Italians, the Jews got out of the slums,'' Professor Nathan said. 
 Despite the economic progress among blacks in Queens, income gaps still endure within the borough's black community, where immigrants, mostly from the Caribbean, are generally doing better than American-born blacks. 
 ''Racism and the lack of opportunity created a big gap and kind of put us at a deeper disadvantage,'' said Steven Dennison, an American-born black resident of Springfield Gardens.
 Mr. Dennison, a 49-year-old electrical contractor, has four children. One is getting her doctoral degree; another will graduate from college this school year. ''It starts with the school system,'' Mr. Dennison said.
 Mr. Vernon, the lawyer from Jamaica, said: ''It's just that the people who left the Caribbean to come here are self-starters. It only stands to reason they would be more aggressive in pursuing their goals. And that creates a separation.'' 
 Housing patterns do, too. While blacks make more than whites -- even those in the borough's wealthiest neighborhoods, including Douglaston -- they account for fewer than 1 in 20 residents in some of those communities. And among blacks themselves, there are disparities, depending on where they live. 
 According to the latest analysis, black households in Queens reported a median income of $51,836 compared with $50,960 for non-Hispanic whites (and $52,998 for Asians and $43,927 among Hispanic people). 
 Among married couples in Queens, the gap was even greater: $78,070 among blacks, higher than any other racial or ethnic group, and $74,503 among whites. 
 Hector Ricketts, 50, lives with his wife, Opal, a legal secretary, and their three children in Rosedale. A Jamaican immigrant, he has a master's degree in health care administration, but after he was laid off more than a decade ago he realized that he wanted to be an entrepreneur. He established a commuter van service. 
 ''When immigrants come here, they're not accustomed to social programs,'' he said, ''and when they see opportunities they had no access to -- tuition or academic or practical training -- they are God-sent, and they use those programs to build themselves and move forward.'' 
 Immigrants helped propel the gains among blacks. The median income of foreign-born black households was $61,151, compared with $45,864 for American-born blacks. The disparity was even more pronounced among black married couples. 
 The median for married black immigrants was $84,338, nearly as much as for native-born white couples. For married American-born blacks, it was $70,324. 
 One reason for the shifting income pattern is that some wealthier whites have moved away. 
 ''As non-Hispanic whites have gotten richer, they have left Queens for the Long Island suburbs, leaving behind just middle-class whites,'' said Professor Edward N. Wolff, an economist at New York University. ''Since home ownership is easier for whites than blacks in the suburbs -- mortgages are easier to get for whites -- the middle-class whites left in Queens have been relatively poor. Middle-class black families have had a harder time buying homes in the Long Island suburbs, so that blacks that remain in Queens are relatively affluent.'' 
 The white median also appeared to have been depressed slightly by the disproportionate number of elderly whites on fixed incomes.
 But even among the elderly, blacks fared better. Black households headed by a person older than 65 reported a median income of $35,977, compared with $28,232 for white households.
 Lloyd Hicks, 77, who moved to Cambria Heights from Harlem in 1959, used to run a freight-forwarding business near Kennedy Airport. His wife, Elvira, 71, was a teacher. Both were born in New York City, but have roots in Trinidad. He has a bachelor's degree in business. She has a master's in education.
 ''Education was always something the families from the islands thought the children should have,'' Mr. Hicks said. 
 In addition to the larger share of whites who are elderly, said Andrew Hacker, a Queens College political scientist, ''black Queens families usually need two earners to get to parity with working whites.'' 
 Kenneth C. Holder, 46, a former prosecutor who was elected to a Civil Court judgeship last year, was born in London of Jamaican and Guyanese parents and grew up in Laurelton. His wife, Sharon, who is Guyanese, is a secretary at a Manhattan law firm. They own a home in Rosedale, where they live with their three sons. 
 ''Queens has a lot of good places to live; I could move, but why?'' Mr. Holder said. ''There are quite a number of two-parent households and a lot of ancillary services available for youth, put up by organized block associations and churches, like any middle-class area.'' 
 In smaller categories, the numbers become less precise. Still, for households headed by a man, median income was $61,151 for blacks and $54,537 for whites. Among households headed by a woman, the black and white medians were the same: $50,960. 
 Of the more than 800,000 households in Queens, according to the Census Bureau's 2005 American Community Survey, about 39 percent are white, 23 percent are Hispanic, 18 percent are Asian, and 17 percent are black -- suggesting multiple hues rather than monotone black and white. 
 ''It is wrong to say that America is 'fast becoming two nations' the way the Kerner Commission did,'' said Professor Nathan, who was the research director for the National Advisory Commission on Civil Disorders in 1968 and disagreed with its conclusion. ''It might be, though, that it was more true then than it is now.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Cambria Heights neighborhood in Queens, a county that belies the ''stereotype of blacks living in dangerous, concentrated, poor, slum, urban neighborhoods,'' one policy expert says. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 29)
Elvira and Lloyd Hicks at home in Cambria Heights, where they moved from Harlem in 1959.
Kenneth C. Holder, elected to a judgeship last year, says he could move from Queens, ''but why?'' (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 31)Chart: ''Incomes in Queens''Median income in 2005 for Queens households.BLACK, NON-HISPANIC: $51,836WHITE, NON-HISPANIC: 50,960ASIAN: 52,998HISPANIC (may be of any race): 43,927(Source by Analysis of census data by Andrew A. Beveridge, Queens College Department of Sociology)(pg. 29)Chart: ''Racial Income Gap''A large gap between the median incomes of racial groups among foreign-born residents has helped propel the overall income of blacks above that of whites in Queens.BLACK, NON-HISPANICHead of household is native born: 45,864Head of household is foreign born: 61,151Married couple household: 78,070WHITE, NON-HISPANICHead of household is native born: 53,711Head of household is foreign born: 45,864Married couple household: 74,503ASIANHead of household is native born: 76,439Head of household is foreign born: 51,979Married couple household: 56,361HISPANIC (may be of any race)Head of household is native born: 50,654Head of household is foreign born: 41,685Married couple household: 50,960(Source by Analysis of census data by Andrew A. Beveridge, Queens College Department of Sociology
 figures for 2005)(pg. 31)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); CENSUS (89%); FAMILY (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); SLUM DWELLINGS (75%); TRENDS (75%); MARRIAGE (75%); REFUGEES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); CITY LIFE (70%); CITIES (70%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (69%); ISLANDS & REEFS (69%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (69%); LAWYERS (69%) Blacks; Income; Census; West Indian-Americans

PERSON: Sam Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); JAMAICA (79%) New York City; Queens (NYC); Immigration and Refugees

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



37 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; GREEN TECH; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1500 words

HEADLINE: Hybrids With a Power Cord: Plug-In Vans Put to the Test

BYLINE: By JIM MOTAVALLI

 BODY:
ARE there plug-in hybrid vehicles in America's future? Such hybrids could travel 10 to 20 additional miles on battery power alone, but until recently automakers have said -- more or less unanimously -- that it was not practical to add a larger battery pack and plug-in chargers to hybrid vehicles because of the added weight, complexity and cost.
 The public is already confused about hybrids, they say, with many people still believing that these cars (whose batteries are charged by their internal-combustion engines) need to be plugged in. So now hybrids really will have a power cord?
Maybe, says DaimlerChrysler. The company recently showed in New York the first vehicle in its small test fleet of Dodge Sprinter delivery vans with plug-in-hybrid powertrains. The Sprinters can drive 20 miles on batteries alone, powered by a 70-kilowatt electric motor. The three Sprinters currently in the United States (built in Germany with either diesel or gasoline engines) are the vanguard concept vehicles in a four-truck fleet; another three dozen will enter service around the world. 
 This does not necessarily mean that DaimlerChrysler will make plug-in production Sprinters for sale, but the company appears to be warming to the concept. 
 Other companies are mulling the idea, too. Ford Motor's chairman, William Clay Ford Jr., said in May that his company was ''keenly looking at'' the technology. At Toyota, Dave Hermance, executive engineer for advanced technology vehicles, confirmed that the company has started a research and development program for plug-ins. ''But we believe the batteries are not ready for production,'' he added. 
 According to a Bloomberg News report in June, General Motors is also developing a plug-in hybrid. Even Google.org, a charitable for-profit company set up by the popular search engine provider, said it would create its own plug-in system. 
 A June report by AllianceBernstein, an investment management firm in New York, entitled ''The Emergence of Hybrid Vehicles,'' concluded that ''Plug-in hybrid vehicles are likely to arrive as an extension of current hybrid technology.'' The fuel-efficiency gains, the report said, ''would be enormous for those people who typically drive only short distances each day.'' 
 Plug-ins, like all hybrids, excel in stop-and-go duty. And their ability to make those runs on batteries alone makes them ideal for the delivery tasks envisioned for the Sprinter project.
 The Electric Power Research Institute, a trade association for utilities, estimates that a plug-in hybrid would consume 2,000 to 2,500 kilowatt-hours of grid electricity annually. So wouldn't vehicles like the plug-in hybrid Sprinter simply transfer their pollution source from the tailpipe to the smokestack of a coal-burning power plant?
 That depends on the source of electric power, according to a report released last month by the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy, a nonprofit energy policy group. The council concluded that a plug-in version of the Toyota Prius could reduce carbon dioxide emissions by a third compared with today's Prius hybrid, but only if its batteries were charged with California electricity -- generated mainly from relatively clean sources.
 ''One of the key determinants is whether the electricity is generated using coal,'' Jim Kliesch, a co-author of the report, said in an interview. The report says that in a part of the Midwest dominated by coal-burning power plants, a plug-in Prius would generate 1 percent more carbon dioxide. ''Our position is that overselling plug-ins to policy makers or to John Q. Public has the potential of causing disenchantment with the technology,'' Mr. Kliesch said.
 But the plug-in concept has long been championed by environmentalists and green-minded entrepreneurs, some of whom have added battery packs and chargers to existing hybrids like the Prius and the Ford Escape. On short commuting runs, these cars wouldn't need to start their gasoline engines, allowing their champions to claim very high potential economy figures. But some homemade plug-in hybrids have had problems adapting to the software of the cars' sophisticated on-board computers.
 ''This DaimlerChrysler introduction is the beginning of the automakers' fulfilling our dreams,'' said Felix Kramer, a founder of CalCars.org, which has championed plug-in hybrids and helped build prototypes. ''It's very encouraging.''
 The van of dreams is a conventional-looking Sprinter, familiar to Americans as a tall Dodge or Freightliner utility vehicle used as a passenger bus and, without rear seats, as a delivery truck. In Europe, it is badged as a Mercedes-Benz. Departures from factory specifications include a plug-in recharging port on the right side of the van's nose, a small switch on the dashboard that shifts the vehicle into electric-only mode and a 350-pound, 14-kilowatt-hour lithium-ion battery pack peeking out from under the flat floor. And, of course, Hybrid Sprinter lettering on its flanks.
 The Sprinter drew a crowd to the lobby of the Solaire apartment tower in Battery Park City, chosen because it is the first green high-rise residential building in the United States(with its own wastewater plant and photovoltaic panels). 
 The Sprinter project is a team effort involving DaimlerChrysler, the New York Power Authority and the Electric Power Research Institute, among others; representatives of each were on hand for the introduction. ''The plug-in hybrid is a good application for fleets, and terrific for New York City,'' said Timothy S. Carey, president and chief executive of the power authority, who drives an Escape Hybrid. 
 The officials stood under an awning and looked on as I became the first journalist in the United States to drive the Sprinter. 
 I twisted the key, and was amazed at how quiet the truck was. Unfortunately, it wasn't running. To the consternation of almost everyone there, this would-be paragon of New York fleet use had failed to start. 
 A German engineer quickly connected a laptop computer to troubleshoot the failure, and concluded that the van's motor controller was not functioning. Unfortunately, he couldn't fix the problem quickly and the demonstration drive was postponed.
 According to a DaimlerChrysler spokesman, Nick Cappa, the car was running half an hour later. But I didn't connect with it again until several days later, in White Plains, where the power authority has its headquarters. The facilities also include a charging station, which takes six to eight hours to replenish the Sprinter's lithium-ion batteries. The paddle charger fits into a slot in the front fender and is pushed downward to start the electricity flowing. The charging system is designed with safety in mind: the electrical contacts are not exposed until the paddle is inserted into the car.
 John Markowitz, a power authority engineer with temporary custody of the hybrid Sprinter, explained that this van, with a gasoline engine, was destined for California, where regulators are not friendly to diesels. 
 That van's lithium-ion batteries offer the same amount of energy storage as the nickel-metal-hydride packs in the other version, but weigh half as much. But lithium-ion batteries pose some cost and durability challenges: both Apple Computer and Dell have recalled lithium-ion laptop computer batteries because of an overheating hazard.
 The Sprinter is relatively simple to drive, with an automatic transmission that offers manual shifting. It handles well for a large vehicle. The driver can choose either hybrid or electric-only mode, with the latter providing the strongest initial acceleration. 
 The 2.3-liter gasoline engine in my test vehicle revved to 5,000 r.p.m. without providing much forward motion up hills, but the electric motor's abundance of low-speed torque pulled it away smoothly -- and with much less noise than a conventional van.
 The engine engagement is not quite as seamless as it is on the production Prius or Escape, but as in those cars, the engine shuts off neatly at stoplights. The alternate version, with a 2.7-liter turbocharged diesel engine, is likely to move out quicker.
 In the first phase of testing, Sprinters will be deployed in New York, Kansas City and Los Angeles. The Kansas City and Los Angeles vans will go into service at utility companies. The Sprinter to undergo a three-year test in New York will be a diesel version with nickel-metal-hydride batteries. It will be used by The New York Times to deliver newspapers from a printing plant in College Point, Queens, to routes in five boroughs, and to haul newspapers to schools, said Mark E. Coleman, director of distribution for The Times. He said the van was likely to be delivered in February or March.
 The Sprinter will have company. Claus C. Tritt, senior manager for commercial vehicles, said DaimlerChrysler would also field a second plug-in hybrid on a revised platform, though he declined to comment further. ''It will have wheels,'' he confided.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A charging paddle fits into a fender. (Photo by E.P.R.I.)
 Automakers are showing new interest in plug-in hybrids like this Sprinter test van. (Photo by New York Power Authority)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (92%); HYBRID VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENERGY RESEARCH (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); CONCEPT CARS (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (70%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); DIESEL FUEL (67%); SEARCH ENGINES (64%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (50%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (50%) Automobiles; Electric and Hybrid Vehicles

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); GOOGLE INC (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); BLOOMBERG LP (53%); ALLIANCEBERNSTEIN HOLDING LP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Daimlerchrysler Ag

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%); GM (NYSE) (53%); AB (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: Jim Motavalli

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (76%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



38 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 277 words

HEADLINE: The Chavez Effect

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''An Uncertain Threat in Venezuela'' (Off the Shelf, Sept. 17), a review of my book ''Hugo Chavez: Oil, Politics and the Challenge to the U.S.'' (St. Martin's Press), which documented how the ''Washington consensus'' has ravaged South America and Venezuela in particular: 
 In his review, Roger Lowenstein calls free-market reforms a ''medicine'' that has "worked better than anything else." Indeed? It was precisely Venezuela's adherence to free-market reforms that proved utterly devastating, sparking massive urban riots in Caracas in 1989.
 Since taking power, Mr. Chavez has been able to successfully resist many of the tenets of the free-market order through the promotion of important social programs. On a recent trip to Venezuela, I went to a worker's cooperative. With help from the newly created Women's Bank, workers had opened a thriving bakery. That's exactly the kind of program viewed as anathema by international financial institutions doling out ''medicine.''
 The reviewer may criticize changes occurring in Venezuela, but government initiatives there have benefited millions.

Nikolas Kozloff
Brooklyn, Sept. 25

To the Editor:
 In his review, Roger Lowenstein says: ''The right question is not what America has to fear from Mr. Chavez, but what Venezuelans have to fear from Mr. Chavez. The answer would seem to be plenty. He has militarized the government, emasculated the country's courts, intimidated the media, eroded confidence in the economy and hallowed out Venezuela's once-democratic institutions."
 Might a columnist in Venezuela be writing something similar about George Bush and America?

Lester Hadsell
Troy, N.Y., Sept. 19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); RIOTS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



39 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 10-01-06; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: Why Not Talk?

BYLINE: By Noah Feldman. 
Noah Feldman, a contributing writer for the magazine, is a law professor at New York University and adjunct senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations.

 BODY:
After a summer of protracted and mostly pointless bombing, the talking season is upon us. Unable or unwilling to halt Qassam rocket attacks on Israel and starved for funds, Hamas has begun discussing a national unity government with its rival Mahmoud Abbas. Tony Blair is rather bravely using his last months in office trying to get Abbas to sit down with the Israelis, who themselves have little to show for their campaign against Hezbollah. Iran, which spent the summer ignoring barely veiled bombing threats, seems poised to discuss its nuclear program with a coalition that includes China, Russia, Britain, France and Germany. 
Conspicuously absent from any of these negotiations is the United States. We approve of all of them, and our diplomats are doubtless in the loop. But officially speaking, silence is our policy. We do not speak with Hamas because of its terrorist activities and unwillingness to recognize Israel's right to exist. In the case of Iran, the trouble stretches all the way back to the 1979-81 hostage crisis, during which we refused to recognize the Islamic Republic. In the latest cycle of tensions over Iran's nuclear progress, the U.S. refuses to join any talks unless Iran first suspends uranium enrichment -- which was also the position of our partners until they announced they would be willing to start talking anyway. President Bush put his position bluntly last month: ''I have made it clear to the Iranian regime that we will sit down with the Iranians once they verifiably suspend their enrichment program. I meant what I said.''
 What's the point of not talking, especially when others are talking for us? If politics is the art of compromise, then surely conversation is one of its methods. Of course, some enemies -- a Hitler or a Pol Pot -- may be so repugnant that the mere prospect of reaching a compromise with them would violate our deepest moral principles. The only time it would be right to hear them out is when they are proposing to surrender. There are radical jihadists who see us in similar terms: they find us repellent and see little point in speaking unless it is to warn us of our downfall if we don't submit to their demands. Given their principled unwillingness to compromise, there is little point in talking with them. 
 And yet even intractable interlocutors may be worth engaging. Perhaps the conversation serves as a strategy of subterfuge and delay, maintaining a holding pattern or cease-fire until the time is ripe to restart hostilities. Talking can also reveal information about an adversary's leaders -- their preconceptions, their blind spots, their fixed beliefs. 
 Ultimately, however, the most fruitful negotiations are based on a different premise: under certain conditions, the motives that drive people and regimes can be changed. Properly carried out, diplomacy creates new incentives that alter countries' underlying interests -- and thus their behavior. Over 50 years, a slow and painstakingly negotiated process of economic integration has taught Western Europe's traditional enemies to look upon one another as allies, then friends and now almost as parts of one big country. If there is ever to be a meaningful solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, it will involve something similar: putting both peoples in a position to gain more the closer they come together.
 When we put our trust in diplomacy, it is not because it is an inspiring or uplifting discourse or because it helps us see the common humanity in others. The stylized circumlocutions of diplomats can make them seem ridiculous or irrelevant: they never seem to be talking about what is really going on. Moreover, talk between enemies may remind both parties of the depth of their mutual enmities and of all the reasons why they were tempted to use force against one another in the first place.
 Nevertheless, diplomacy is essential as long as the use of direct force has limits. After 9/11, most Americans were in no mood to talk with our enemies in the Middle East, whatever those enemies' ideology, and the Bush administration's policies of invasion and pre-emption reflected that sentiment. Now, having relearned the lesson of our limitations, we find ourselves edging back to the table. 
 Our refusal to speak with Hamas since its election victory has had real costs. It has suggested to many that our commitment to Middle Eastern democracy is partial at best, and it may have enabled violence by implying that the United States doesn't care all that much about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Still, our policy may pay dividends in helping to establish a new Palestinian government, and we should continue to shun Hamas to make sure that such a result occurs. If the new government agrees to abide by previous Palestinian commitments to Israel, however, we should get back to the table quickly. 
 In the case of Iran, the problem is that we are at once desperate for its help in quieting the chaos of Iraq and determined to stop it from developing a nuclear weapon. We have been willing to speak with Iran's leaders about Iraq but not about the weapons -- a distinction that Iran regards as arbitrary and has thus far yielded few gains in either realm. We would do better to sit down with Iran now, recalling that by the time we began negotiating with North Korea, its nuclear progress had become all but a fait accompli.
 In short, we need a breakthrough, one that will help either the Israeli-Palestinian track, the Iraq situation or both. To get that, we will need the much-maligned diplomats. It could be a British prime minister on his way out, able to accomplish what Bill Clinton in his last days could not. It could be the first Muslim secretary general of the United Nations -- Prince Zeid al-Hussein of Jordan is a leading candidate -- who breaks the impasse. Or it could be the usual suspects, just muddling through and lowering the temperature. In an ideological age, diplomacy may seem weak and prosaic. But sometimes it is all we have.

 What should the United Nations Security Council do if Iran continues to produce nuclear fuel? Source: BBC World Service Poll, May-July 2006 (Chart by L. Eckstein)

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Julie Jacobson
 AP)Chart: ''TALKING IT OVER''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (91%); HAMAS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); POLITICS (89%); TERRORISM (78%); HEZBOLLAH (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); HOSTAGE TAKING (70%); RELIGION (67%) United States International Relations; Motion Pictures; Elections; United States Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (93%); HEZBOLLAH (57%) Hamas

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (72%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); TONY BLAIR (57%) Noah (Prof) Feldman; George W (Pres) Bush; Deborah Solomon; Warren Beatty; Ronald Wilson (1911-2004) Reagan

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (77%); FRANCE (72%) Israel; Iran

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



40 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 258 words

HEADLINE: A Guide to the Democratic Herd

BYLINE: By BILL MARSH

 BODY:
THE voters of the Republican Party have been fractious, with cultural conservatives vying with antitax and antispending blocs for the president's attentions. 
 But the G.O.P. is a portrait of unity compared with the Democratic electorate. Democrats have been called a collection of interest groups. Rather than the donkey, perhaps the cat, notoriously resistant to herding, would make a better symbol.
Here is an attempt to portray the major coalitions and blocs among Democrats, based on the views of several political experts, notably the nonpartisan analyst Stuart Rothenberg. A companion diagram of the G.O.P., first published last year, is available at nytimes.com/weekinreview. BILL MARSH

How to read this chart:

FOUR BROAD COALITIONS within the Democratic Party are grouped by color.

BLOCS WITHIN COALITIONS and their relative dominance are represented by the size of individual donkey symbols.

MAJOR COMMON INTERESTS among blocs are listed where donkeys overlap (darker shades). These are only some of the leading areas of agreement; many other common interests are not shown.

 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY, HEALTH CARE, EDUCATION

MINORITY BLOC -- Blacks (quite loyal to the party) and Hispanics (less so).

More conservative than others in Social Justice Coalition on some social issues (abortion, gay rights).

MAJOR FIGURES: Rep. Maxine Waters of Calif., Al Sharpton, Jesse Jackson.

(Sources by Stuart Rothenberg and Nathan L. Gonzales, The Rothenberg Political Report; The Cook Political Report; Celinda Lake; Andrew Kohut, Pew Research Center; David Bositis)

GRAPHIC: ChartCentrist Coalition''Blue Dog'' moderates notwithstanding (the designation predates 2000's famous red-blue political coloring), the blocs shown here in red most closely approach the G.O.P. They are largely alone in their belief that the Iraq war was not a mistake.COMPETITIVENESS BLOC -- Also ''New Democrats.'' Support free trade and market-based growth as solution to poverty, inequality
corporate America is O.K. Socially progressive
smitten with technology.VOTERS: Middle class, white-collar workers.MAJOR FIGURE: Gov. Bill Richardson of New MexicoBLUE DOG BLOC -- More conservative on cultural issues. Working class and populist on economic issues.VOTERS: Rural Southern and Midwestern moderates.MAJOR FIGURE: Rep. Harold Ford Jr. of TennesseeREAGAN DEMOCRATS BLOC -- The few who still vote Democratic are socially conservative and pro-military.VOTERS: White ethnics and Catholics, especially in Northern cities.MAJOR FIGURE: NoneOPPOSITION TO WAR: A GALVANIZING ISSUE -- A September New York Times/CBS News poll found that 76 percent of Democrats believe that the Iraq war was a mistake -- those who appear inside this gray border. For example, Liberal Elite Bloc is solidly against the war, the Competitiveness Bloc is divided on the question and Reagan Democrats tend to support it.ACTIVIST BLOC -- Bloggers
antiwar, antiglobalization protesters
students.MAJOR FIGURES: Daily Kos blog, Dennis Kucinich.LIBERAL ELITE BLOC -- Includes academics, entrepeneurs, Hollywood stars.MAJOR FIGURE: George SorosCOMPETENT GOVERNMENT ACTIVISM ON BEHALF OF SOCIAL JUSTICE
ENVIRONMENTCOMPETENT GOVERNMENT, AFFORDABLE HEALTH CARE, PENSION PROTECTIONNew Left CoalitionThe smallest coalition, but the loudest and growing fast. Helped Ned Lamont win the senate primary in Connecticut. Young, ideological and idealist. Contemptuous of Bush and G.O.P
critical of Democratic party for perceived contentment with status quo. Antiestablishment, anticorporate, antibureaucratic
angry at what they see as misguided use of American military power.IDOL -- Paul Wellstone, the late Minnesota senator.Old Line CoalitionThe rest of the core: bedrock Democrats whose aims have remained consistent over many years. Support the continuation of New Deal agenda and government commitments. Differ with the Social Justice Coalition: Many are older
some church groups don't support liberal social causes like gay rights.YELLOW DOG BLOC -- Extremely loyal
intense dislike of the G.O.P. Nickname originated in 1920's with the saying, ''I'd vote for a yellow dog if he ran on the Democratic ticket!'' (The nickname ''Blue Dog Democrats'' is a takeoff.)VOTERS: Party stalwarts who see issues in class terms
pro-little guy.MAJOR FIGURE: Rep. Sherrod Brown of OhioBLUE COLLAR BLOC -- This group includes working class voters who are not faring well economically (excluding renegade Reagan Democrats). Pro-labor
antiwar, but not anti-military.VOTING BLOC -- Old-line organized labor, middle and lower class workers who may see immigrants as competition.MAJOR FIGURE: John J. Sweeney, A.F.L.-C.I.O. presidentPRESERVING MEDICARE, SOCIAL SECURITYSocial Justice CoalitionMajor portion of core Democratic voters. Ideological and issue-driven: economic fairness, environmental activism and social tolerance. Often younger, more cosmopolitan and socially more liberal than those in the Old Line Coalition, except for some minority voters.FAIRNESS BLOC -- Want to see wealth and power spread to more Americans. More social spending
for affirmative action, abortion rights, gay rights.VOTERS: Single and working women, gays, Jews, liberal main line Protestant churchgoers, environmentalists, young people, ''New Labor'' (serviceoriented
proimmigrant).MAJOR FIGURES: Sens. Barbara Boxer of Calif. and Edward Kennedy of Mass.
Rep. Nancy Pelosi of Calif.AFFIRMATIVE ACTION
 INCREASING WAGESSOCIAL MODERATE BLOC -- Includes ex-Republicans unhappy with G.O.P. cultural stands.VOTERS: Northern and West Coast suburbanites, college educated women, post-grad professionals.MAJOR FIGURE: Sen. Barack Obama of Illinois.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (79%); POLITICS (78%); HORSES (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (72%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (72%); IRAQ WAR (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); LGBT RIGHTS (51%); GAYS & LESBIANS (51%); ABORTION (51%) United States Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (59%)

PERSON: BILL RICHARDSON (78%); TED KENNEDY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); DENNIS KUCINICH (58%); BARBARA BOXER (58%); MAXINE WATERS (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); SHERROD BROWN (58%); JESSE JACKSON (51%); AL SHARPTON (50%) Bill Marsh

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



41 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: Musharraf: An Accuracy Test

BYLINE: By DAVID ROHDE

 BODY:
PRESIDENT PERVEZ MUSHARRAF of Pakistan was in Washington, New York, and on TV screens across the United States last week to promote his country's efforts to counter Al Qaeda, but that was not all. He was also promoting his new autobiography ''In the Line of Fire: A Memoir.'' 
 Speaking at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York Tuesday, the general repeatedly made statements that his critics, and some experts, questioned. Here are some of his remarks as transcribed by the Federal News Service, with responses from United Nations, Pakistani and United States officials. 

Economic Growth
 ''Today, our G.D.P. growth over the last four years is 7 percent. Our per capita income has more than doubled. Our G.D.P. has doubled.''
Kaiser Bengali, a Pakistani economist, says doubling Pakistan's per capita income and G.D.P. would require a higher growth rate than 7 percent or more time than four years.

Pakistan's Tribal Areas
 ''Now, there is no change in the ground military situation -- not one soldier has moved out. We are in position.''
 Pakistani officials say that under a deal with tribal leaders, Pakistani forces have withdrawn to their barracks and tribal militias now patrol the border area, where American officials believe Taliban members cross into and out of Afghanistan.

Who Rules Afghanistan
 ''Fifty to 60 percent of Afghanistan is Pashtun. Tajik -- total percentage of Tajiks -- is 5 percent.'' A member of the audience states the percentage is higher. ''So, O.K., this will be about 7 or 8 percent, 9 percent. O.K.''
 General Musharraf was making a case that ethnic Pashtuns, a group that has been the Taliban's base of support in the past, are under-represented in the Afghan government, and that ethnic Tajiks from the country's north -- including Panjsheris from the Panjshir Valley -- hold too many positions. Pakistan has generally supported Afghanistan's Pashtuns. India has generally supported its Tajiks and Panjsheris.
 The State Department says Pashtuns make up from 38 to 44 percent of Afghanistan's population, and Tajiks make up 25 percent. Half of the government ministers, including President Hamid Karzai, are Pashtuns, say American experts.

Afghan Security Forces
 ''In the ministry of interior and intelligence -- if 50 percent people are Panjsheri, how will the Pashtun, the 50 percent population of Afghanistan, be feeling about it?''
 American officials have led the training of the army, intelligence service and police, and see ethnical balance. The army is 49 percent Pashtun, 21 percent Tajik, a 2005 Congressional report said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); TALIBAN (89%); ARMIES (88%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); AL-QAEDA (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (75%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (72%); LITERATURE (72%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); ETHNIC GROUPS (68%); MILITARY TRAINING (67%); BORDER CONTROL (65%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%) Books and Literature

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (57%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (91%); HAMAD KARZAI (59%) David Rohde; Pervez (Pres) Musharraf

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%) Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



42 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: Ace of Base

BYLINE: By Mark Halperin. 
Mark Halperin, the political director of ABC News, is the co-author of ''The Way to Win: Taking the White House in 2008.''

 BODY:
BILL and Hillary Clinton have been known to cite a quip widely attributed to Einstein: ''The definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result.'' George W. Bush and Karl Rove live by an alternative dictum: Why do things differently when you like the results you have been getting?
 In the 2002 and 2004 national elections, the president and his top political adviser won by margins provided by conservative voters who shared the White House's view that the country should continue to move right. Although the president is not on the ballot in November, the Bush-Rove model animates the Republican Party's election strategy for 2006. 
Yet two years of controversy over the Iraq war and Hurricane Katrina, and the perils of high gas prices and low poll numbers, have led many to believe that the Republicans' strategy of fighting from the base has worn out its welcome. Therefore, this view holds, a campaign that appeals to moderates, one waged from the center, is the only way for the party to maintain control of the House and Senate.
 Interesting theory, but it probably won't work. If the Republicans want to keep their majorities in the midterm elections, their best chance is to stick with the old, base-driven Bush-Rove electoral strategy.
 Why? In the eyes of the Bush team, America is a polarized country, one where there are fundamental divisions worth fighting over. A president -- and a party -- should not worry about slender margins of victory or legislative control. The goal is to accumulate just enough power to use the energies and passions of the base to effect ideological change in the nation's laws and institutions, even if -- sometimes especially if -- those changes might be at odds with majority public opinion.
 For the Republicans, this brand of politics works because the United States in many ways remains a fundamentally conservative nation. Polls consistently indicate that there are more staunchly conservative Americans than liberal ones. Republican politicians, therefore, have the advantage of being able to proudly announce what they really think. They can go on offense. 
 The party is helped, of course, by superior financial resources. And the Republicans have mastered micro-aiming rousing messages to ideologically sympathetic voters. These messages, generally on hot button issues like gay marriage and abortion, stir the kind of emotion and anger that provide the energy in Bush-Rove politics.
 It's important to note, though, that this strategy depends on something else: the inability of Democrats to play by the same rules, to go on offense.
 If Democrats in Congress took a secret ballot, it is safe to say there would be overwhelming support for a variety of positions that, in theory, could rally the party's base: a timely withdrawal of American troops from Iraq; a tax increase for the wealthy; universal health care; and increased rights for homosexuals. These are all positions in line with the activist wing of their party. And yet most Democrats will not openly espouse such policies, concerned that backing them could hurt their chances in 2006. 
 If they actually articulated what was in their hearts, Democrats worry that they would be marching into a buzz saw of negative political commercials and White House-led attacks. Democrats rightly believe that such attacks would energize the conservative base and also eat into their support among centrist voters. But their chosen alternative -- in which they swallow their true beliefs on important national issues -- demoralizes their own base. 
 If you have any doubts about the confusion of the Democrats, just look at the party's midterm strategy. On the one hand, Democrats are reluctant to push for liberal policies that would motivate their base. But the core of their enunciated message -- both vowing to stop the president's right-wing policies and blurring their differences with Republicans on highly charged issues -- has in recent elections been a recipe for defeat. Such equivocation is the kind of themeless pudding that does not match up well with the conviction of the White House message and is uninspiring to both the Democrats' base and the center. 
 For months, the president was in severe political peril, with approval ratings regularly hovering around 30 percent, in large measure because he was missing the support of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents that is essential to his majority. Despite conservative disaffection with the White House over the past year on issues like spending (and even, in some cases, on Iraq), the latest polls show the G.O.P. base is coming home -- and just in time. Base support is headed toward 90 percent, just about where it was before the 2002 and 2004 elections. 
 The speeches the president gave about national security leading up to the fifth anniversary of 9/11 re-engaged the base and raised his overall approval rating to around 40 percent. He also has shifted the debate back to his favored playing field: national security. 
 Although some Democrats are energized by the aggressive posture struck last week by Bill and Hillary Clinton on national security, the couple's visibility seems to be energizing the Republican base as well, perhaps more so. 
 As in 2002 and 2004, the Democrats have been baited into a heated discussion on terrorism and Iraq, blocking out debates that would be more favorable to their cause, like Social Security, the economy and gas prices. The Clintons have whipped up Democrats into a frenzy to fight back, but on Capitol Hill and on television they are largely fighting back on Republican terrain.
 This is exactly what happened in the last two elections: Mr. Bush and Mr. Rove fired up the base on national security, taxes and social issues and found a way to win a majority of the electorate, even as they lost the allegiance of a majority of the country over all. The national security debate, the visibility of the Clintons and the momentum the Republicans gain from Mr. Bush's rising poll numbers -- all of these echo previous election cycles. 
 Critics of the Bush administration assert that the politics of the base has run its course, and that the Iraq war, the partisan zealousness and the conservative social policies of the administration have made voters yearn for a more centrist, bipartisan government. But Mr. Bush's opponents may be imprudently lulled by the current storyline and broad national polls, both of which miss the power and consequence of a Republican base that may have one more victory to give.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); POLITICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (74%); IRAQ WAR (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); HURRICANE KATRINA (54%); MARRIAGE (50%); ABORTION (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) Election Issues; Public Opinion

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BILL CLINTON (90%); KARL ROVE (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%) Mark Halperin; George W (Pres) Bush; Karl Rove

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



43 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Work the Factory Floor 

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Hillary Clinton is the front-runner for the next Democratic presidential nomination, but suddenly this is John Edwards's party. If you look across the states where the party is being defined in 2006, you find candidates who sound a lot more like him than her. 
 Democrats are running strong Senate campaigns in the upper South (James Webb in Virginia, Harold Ford in Tennessee), in the big job-loss states (Bob Casey in Pennsylvania, Sherrod Brown in Ohio, Claire McCaskill in Missouri) and even in a few places out West (Jon Tester in Montana). And in each case, the candidates are running as factory-floor populists who would throw up if they had to sit through a Renaissance Weekend. 
 Senator Clinton is a well-educated professional who was influenced by the values politics of the 1960's and 70's. But most of today's strong Democratic candidates are traditionalist manly men who give the impression that if they had been involved in the Chicago riots, they would have been on the side of the cops, not the hippies. The Claritas research firm segments the country into different psychodemographic clusters. Today's most prominent Democratic candidates are more Mines and Mills than Towns and Gowns.
 The Democrats were once a free trade party. But Sherrod Brown wrote a book called ''Myths of Free Trade: Why American Trade Policy Has Failed'' and most of this year's strong Democratic candidates rail -- like John Edwards -- against outsourcing and trade agreements. Their core issue is the economic resentment of the struggling middle class. Brown recently explained the political strategy to a gathering of liberal journalists: ''I know that trade issues work with white male, nonunion, culturally conservative voters because they know how anxious trade issues have made them and their families.''
 Many of this year's prominent candidates are also surprisingly nationalist on immigration, playing off concerns about declining wages. ''I do believe we must gain control of our borders,'' Webb said during a debate. ''We also must gain control over corporate America's use of illegals. This, along with the Iraq war, has been the major failure of this administration.''
 On social issues, most of them are not exactly singing from the hymnal of the highly educated coastal elites. ''I believe marriage should only be between men and women,'' Ford declares on the stump. ''I don't know any better; that's how I was brought up. We didn't have any choice. Where I grew up, when you awakened on Sunday, you went to church. I learned the faith thing the old-fashioned way.''
 On Iraq, most are leaning toward the Edwards position. Unlike Senator Clinton, Edwards has disavowed his earlier support for the war. He calls for an immediate withdrawal of 40,000 troops and complete withdrawal within a year or so. But several candidates are careful to show they are not in the pocket of the A.C.L.U. Both Sherrod Brown and Harold Ford voted with President Bush on the military tribunal bill. 
 In sum, their message is a long way from the globalized Third Way politics Bill Clinton and Tony Blair exemplified in the 1990's. It's also a long way from the secular, multicultural liberalism that has alienated religious voters in droves. 
 Will it work politically? There's some evidence that it can. Michael Barone of U.S. News & World Report has noticed that so far Democrats are doing surprisingly well in rural America, where this economically progressive, socially traditionalist populism goes down well. Moreover, if Brown's economic populism can't win in a factory-decimated state like Ohio in a political climate like the one we have now, then it can't win anywhere, ever.
 And yet Democrats have reason to worry long term. This message is based on a sort of economic nostalgia, what The Economist called a ''rose-tinted version of the 1950's and 1960's'' -- when the middle class prospered, families cohered, America dominated, unions thrived, Islam was invisible and immigrants were Irish and Italian. 
 This nostalgia is certainly common today. In their must-read book, ''Applebee's America,'' Doug Sosnik, Matt Dowd and Ron Fournier quote an anxious Michigan voter: ''This is going to sound silly, but I wish things were like they were when we were growing up. I wish I could go back in time. We had stable lives. Mom could stay home, and we could afford it. Life was slower.''
 But nationwide, and in the decades ahead, can a politics that evades the modern realities of Islamic extremism and the skill-based global economy really be the basis of a majority movement? I doubt it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); OUTSOURCING (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); RIOTS (67%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (66%); WRITERS (65%); LIBERAL MEDIA (63%); IMMIGRATION (61%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (61%); BORDER CONTROL (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2008

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US); Senate (US)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); JOHN EDWARDS (89%); SHERROD BROWN (78%); CLAIRE MCCASKILL (58%); BOB CASEY (58%); JIM WEBB (58%); JON TESTER (58%) David Brooks; John Edwards; Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006



44 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Girls and Boys, Interrupted

BYLINE: By Alissa Quart. 
Alissa Quart is the author of ''Hothouse Kids: The Dilemma of the Gifted Child.''

 BODY:
I WATCHED football on television the other night. As might be expected, there were star player biographies, manicured young women with microphones interviewing coaches field-side, plugs for the program's sponsor (Nike) and cheerleaders in thigh-skimming skirts.
 What was unusual about the program was that the players were teenagers and the game was nationally televised, a California high school game I could see in New York. The players' on-camera biographies were a bit abbreviated; what kind of history does a 15-year-old have, after all? And the cheerleaders were not merely trussed up to look like teenagers -- they were bona fide underage. 
Football games aren't the only children's competitions now being broadcast nationally. So are spelling bees (this year the national championship was broadcast on ABC) and Little League championship games (also on ABC). There has also been a recent spate of reality and variety television shows centering around child performances. On ''America's Got Talent,'' 11-year-old Bianca Ryan won $1 million this summer for singing a Jennifer Holliday song as if she were a 50-year-old musical theater vet. 
 Televising youth championships on ABC, Fox Sports, NBC, MTV and ESPN blurs the line between activity for fun and activity for money. School football teams are reputed to earn from $2,000 to tens of thousands a game: one coach estimated in an article in this paper that Nike had invested $20,000 a year in his team and that the team had sometimes kept thousands in concession revenues. The networks also pay for the teams' travel -- in one instance, travel in a private jet. Sponsors of football and Little League, which include makers of not-so-sporting processed foods like Snapple and Kellogg's Frosted Flakes, also stand to profit. 
 But what's particularly dubious about these televised competitions is the culture of competition they reflect and foster. That culture can be one that produces phantom economics and promises stardom, like we see on wealth-saturated youth reality shows like ''Laguna Beach.'' But it is also a more conventional kind of rivalry, revealing children at their moments of triumph and failure to millions of people. Forever, these media-ready competitors will have to carry the legacy of having been either humiliated by the broadcast of their losses or frozen in the inflated image of their wins. 
 Sure, some participants are ready, ''Laguna Beach''-style, for the spotlight. But the spotlight can also lead to embarrassing moments, as happened when a 2004 Spelling Bee contestant fainted on camera. That made for a light story on the evening news and amusing television for the snarky or the vegetative. But what good is done by publicizing moments like that, really?
 During one nationally televised high school football game I watched, the commercials between plays -- for a male weight-loss formula and a cream that promised to prevent balding, for example -- seemed to indicate that the viewers were on the antique side of youth, perhaps frozen into a state of mind of their own: nostalgia, perhaps nostalgia for the future that adult viewers had imagined for themselves in the past.
 But one way or another, grown-up viewers of televised youth competitions find themselves contorted into an odd position. We become talent agents, recruiters and connoisseurs of precocity, judging the young competitors on their seamlessness and, ironically, how un-childlike they are. As one judge said to Bianca Ryan in front of millions of viewers, if she just changed her shoes, her hair and her dress, she would win the competition. In other words, if she became more adult-looking -- varnished herself into a post-pubescent chanteuse -- she would win.
 Youth competitions can certainly have positive effects. They can expand children's social worlds, make them feel less isolated and give them a sense of mastery and discipline. But when TV cameras are added to the mix, the stakes can change. At televised competitions, I have seen children turn their faces away from the cameras so that their tears wouldn't be visible -- the pathos of the losers when forced to confront the winners being filmed. Even some of the winners responded with self-consciousness. Watching this happen in real time convinced me that high school football games, spelling bees and other pageants and competitions of youth should be witnessed in actual fields, halls and stadiums rather than on television sets. 
 Childhood is ostensibly a more private period of life than adulthood. By that logic, camera crews shouldn't be trailing the winners and losers of children's contests. After all, youth contests are meant, at best, to excite children to learn and to practice, not to be the beginning of their relationships with recruiters, publicists and media trainers.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Joe Morse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); SPORTS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); YOUTH SPORTS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); WOMEN (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (87%); FOOD INDUSTRY (85%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); REALITY TELEVISION (78%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (78%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); TOURNAMENTS (76%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (73%); THEATER (71%); MUSIC (71%); MUSICAL THEATER (66%) 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); KELLOGG CO (53%)

TICKER: K (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (53%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (53%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (53%)

PERSON: Alissa Quart

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2006



45 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: An Offer Tehran Can't Refuse

BYLINE: By Ted Koppel. 
Ted Koppel is a contributing columnist for The Times and the managing editor of the Discovery Channel.

 BODY:
A few days ago, I inadvertently violated United States economic sanctions against Iran. I was paying my hotel bill in Tehran, didn't have enough cash and asked if I could use a credit card. 
 ''I'll need to keep your card for at least half an hour,'' said the clerk. Since he'd also ''needed to keep'' my passport for the first couple of days I was in Iran, I thought nothing more of it. Half an hour later, I had my hotel bill and my credit card and left for the airport.
A couple of days later my assistant asked me if I had purchased any clothing in Dubai. ''No,'' I said. ''Why?'' Someone, it appeared, had used my corporate credit card to do just that. When I heard the amount involved -- precisely the total of my hotel bill -- I understood. 
 There had been no purchase of clothing in Dubai, of course; but some Dubai business debited my credit card there (where such a transaction is legal) for the amount of my hotel bill, simultaneously crediting the company that owns the hotel in Tehran with that sum for the purchase of goods or services in Dubai. Similar, much larger loopholes enable the European subsidiaries of American companies to sell sanction-banned American goods inside Iran in limited but still significant quantities.
 Even as the United States withholds its goods and technological know-how from Iran, the Europeans, Russians, Japanese and especially the Chinese are offering theirs as quickly as the contracts can be drafted. The likelihood that more restrictive sanctions against Iran will either make it through the United Nations' bureaucratic quagmire or dissuade Iran from darting down the path toward nuclear technology is about as dim as that of a popular uprising among the people under 30 who make up 70 percent of Iran's population. 
 Many of Iran's young adults -- especially the well-educated, English-speaking ones who cross the path of a visiting American journalist -- are frustrated by the puritanical nature of Islamic law. They dismiss their president and ours as deserving each other, denounce the corruption of the mullahs and speak with surprising openness about confiscated satellite dishes, blocked Internet sites, the closing of newspapers and the jailing and mistreatment of dissidents. But the young malcontents appear nowhere close to staging a revolution. 
 On the highway from Tehran to the Mehrabad airport, I witnessed a mind-bending object lesson in the limits of youthful rebellion: two young women on in-line skates, clutching the door handles of a car being driven by a young man at speeds approaching 60 miles an hour. Both women brazenly violated every traffic law known to man, but with their head scarves in place, the loose ends firmly clenched between their teeth. There are certain lines you don't cross. 
 Trivial acts of rebellion, irrelevant to the Islamic revolution, are tolerated. Anything perceived as a significant challenge is not. One of the men who planned and executed the taking of the American Embassy in 1979, for example, spent nine months in solitary confinement for collaborating on a public opinion poll whose findings were deemed unacceptable.
 Iran suffers from chronic underemployment and its social safety nets are flimsy at best. The Revolutionary Guards now resemble Mafia families more than ideological shock troops. They still wield enormous influence, but their clout has corrupted them. In Tehran, I'm told, the Revolutionary Guard dominates the construction industry and its leading members have become exceedingly wealthy as a consequence. President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad remains popular among the peasants and the poor, who note that he has failed to deliver on most of his campaign promises but are willing to grant him more time. As long as the price of oil remains above $50 a barrel, Iran can buy what it needs.
 Mr. Ahmadinejad's tweaking of the West and his refusal to bow to pressure on the nuclear issue are widely popular in Iran. There was a time, not long ago, when many Iranians genuinely believed that there was a danger of an American military attack, even an invasion. Hardly anyone seems to believe in that possibility any more.
 What, then, can the United States do to prevent Iran from developing nuclear technology? Little or nothing. Washington should instead bow to the inevitable. 
 ''You insist on having nuclear weapons,'' we should say. ''Go ahead. It's a terrible idea, but we can't stop you. We would, however, like your leaders to view the enclosed DVD of 'The Godfather.' Please pay particular attention to the scene in which Don Corleone makes grudging peace with a man -- the head of a rival crime family -- who ordered the killing of his oldest son.''
 In that scene, Don Corleone says, ''I forgo my vengeance for my dead son, for the common good. But I have selfish reasons.'' The welfare of his youngest son, Michael, is on his mind.
 ''I am a superstitious man,'' he continues. ''And so if some unlucky accident should befall my youngest son, if some police officer should accidentally shoot him, or if he should hang himself in his cell, or if my son is struck by a bolt of lightening, then I will blame some of the people here. That I could never forgive.'' 
 If Iran is bound and determined to have nuclear weapons, let it. The elimination of American opposition on this issue would open the way to genuine normalization between our two nations. It might even convince the Iranians that their country can flourish without nuclear weapons. 
 But this should also be made clear to Tehran: If a dirty bomb explodes in Milwaukee, or some other nuclear device detonates in Baltimore or Wichita, if Israel or Egypt or Saudi Arabia should fall victim to a nuclear ''accident,'' Iran should understand that the United States government will not search around for the perpetrator. The return address will be predetermined, and it will be somewhere in Iran.
 Maybe we could induce Richard Armitage out of retirement to play the Don Corleone part. Apparently he knows the role, having already played it in Pakistan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); WOMEN (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (71%); POPULATION SIZE (67%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (65%); JOURNALISM (65%); WRITERS (60%); RELIGION (60%) 

PERSON: Ted Koppel; Mahmoud (Pres) Ahmadinejad

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (91%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (90%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); IRAN (91%); EUROPE (79%) Iran

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2006



46 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; ON BASEBALL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Fight to Finish Isn't Always for Division Title

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
Commissioner Bud Selig and so many other people in baseball love the wild card, swear by it, get excited because it keeps so many more teams in contention in the late stages of the season, which means more fans flock to the ballparks to watch their contending teams play. 
 Major League Baseball has set an attendance record for the third successive season and Saturday eclipsed 75 million for the first time. It's difficult to argue with those economic developments. 
But on the final day of the season yesterday, two teams did not do everything they could to finish in first place in their divisions. They had clinched playoff spots and were willing to settle for the wild-card spots and save their pitchers for the first game of the division series.
 Had the Minnesota Twins needed to win yesterday against the Chicago White Sox to make the playoffs, Johan Santana would have pitched for them. Had the Los Angeles Dodgers needed a victory against San Francisco, Derek Lowe would have pitched. But neither game was an absolute must, so Santana and Lowe didn't pitch and instead will open the division series. 
 Carlos Silva, a veteran, pitching with three days' rest, started for the Twins, and Eric Stults, a rookie, went for the Dodgers. 
 Silva won, and the Twins won the division title because Detroit lost. Stults did not get the decision as the Dodgers won. The Padres also won, tying the teams atop the West, but San Diego took the division because it won the season series. 
 Teams are supposed to do the best they can to finish as high as they can, but the wild card has made that unnecessary and undermined the integrity of that part of the game. 
 ''It isn't like they're using some kid,'' Selig said. ''Each manager has to do what he thinks is best over all. I can't quarrel with that. I don't think that compromises integrity at all.'' 
 The decisions not to use Santana and Lowe were not the first of their kind. In 1996, the Dodgers and the San Diego Padres were tied for first in the National League Central going into the last game of the season, and it happened to be against each other. Both, however, had clinched playoff spots. Joey Hamilton was on schedule to pitch the game for the Padres, but Manager Bruce Bochy wanted to save him for the playoff opener and started Bob Tewksbury instead.
 ''We had to sweep the series to win the division,'' Tewksbury recalled yesterday on his cellphone. ''After we won the first two games, Ken Caminiti said, 'I don't care if we're in the playoffs; we want to win the Western Division.' I took pride pitching for the division championship. I'll never forget Cammy's words.''
 Tewksbury pitched seven shutout innings and Chris Gwynn hit a two-run double in the 11th inning for a 2-0 victory and the division title. But that was far as the Padres went. They and the Dodgers were swept in the division series. 
 But as Tewksbury said, ''The difference was when they answered the phone the next year, it wasn't 'Padres wild card,' it was 'Padres Western Division champions.' ''
 By going with less than their best, the Twins and Dodgers were weakening their chances of gaining home-field advantage for the division series. The loser of the Twins-Tigers race would play the Yankees in New York; the winner would be the home team tomorrow against Oakland.
 In the N.L., the wild card would play the Mets in New York; the winner would play at home against St. Louis. The Cardinals were involved in their own strategic decision.
 They had yet to clinch the N.L. Central crown, but they opted not to start their best pitcher, Chris Carpenter, hoping to have him for the playoff opener. They figured they had three chances to clinch: a victory behind Anthony Reyes yesterday, a Houston loss or a victory against San Francisco behind Carpenter today in a makeup of a rained-out game.
 ''We'll take the shot we can have Chris alive for Tuesday if we get in,'' Manager Tony LaRussa said. The gamble worked; St. Louis lost, but so did Houston. 
 By bypassing Carpenter, the Cardinals weren't toying with integrity; they were gambling with their status, which certainly was their right. They were not in the same position as the Twins and the Dodgers. But those teams were only doing what they had a right to do under the playoff format. Blame it on the system.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Carlos Silva, pitching on short rest, earned the victory yesterday for Minnesota, which edged Detroit for the A.L. Central title. The Twins, who opted to rest Johan Santana for their playoff opener, won the division when Detroit lost to Kansas City. (Photo by Eric Miller/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Baseball; Playoff Games

ORGANIZATION: MINNESOTA TWINS (84%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (83%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (58%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (56%)

PERSON: Murray Chass

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (78%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (56%) MINNESOTA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2006



47 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2524 words

HEADLINE: Trading Votes for Pork Across the House Aisle

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK; Aron Pilhofer contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 1 

 BODY:
For more than a decade, Representative John P. Murtha of Pennsylvania has operated a political trading post in a back corner of the House of Representatives. 
 A gang of about two dozen Democrats mill around his seat. A procession of others walk back to request pet spending projects, known as earmarks. And Republicans come by, asking him to enlist some of those Democrats to join them on close votes. ''Whether they get what they want in the bill or they get the votes they are looking for, nobody ever leaves completely disappointed,'' said Representative Paul E. Kanjorski, a Pennsylvania Democrat often found in what is known as the Murtha corner.
Outside Washington, Mr. Murtha, a Vietnam veteran and longtime hawk, may be best known for his break with the president over the Iraq war last fall. But inside the Capitol, he is best known for turning earmarks into power. As the top Democrat on the House military spending subcommittee, he often delivers Democratic votes to Republican leaders in a tacit exchange for earmarks for himself and his allies. 
 In the last year, Democratic and Republican floor watchers say, Mr. Murtha has helped Republicans round up enough Democratic votes to narrowly block a host of Democratic proposals: to investigate federal contracting fraud in Iraq, to reform lobbying laws, to increase financing for flood control, to add $150 million for veterans' health care and job training, and to exempt middle-class families from the alternative minimum tax.
 In one case that particularly irked Democratic partisans, Mr. Murtha led three others in voting against a politically vulnerable Louisiana Democrat's proposal to divert money intended to be spent on base closings to research prosthetic limbs for veterans. It failed by one vote. 
 For their ''nays'' on that and other matters, all four Democrats were rewarded. In the weeks after the vote, they claimed credit for a total of more than $250 million in earmarks in the 2006 appropriations bills. Mr. Murtha alone brought home about $80 million for his district and $120 million for his state, according to Taxpayers for Common Sense, a nonpartisan group that tracks such projects.
 Mr. Murtha, who announced a bid this spring to become the next House Democratic leader, acknowledges that some Democrats grouse about his history of leading others across the aisle. (Several Democrats said as much, but none would speak publicly.) He confirmed working with Republicans on the Iraq war spending vote that blocked the Democratic corruption investigation, but said he did not remember the others. He said he always acted on principle, working with Republicans either because he agreed with them or to uphold private agreements about spending bills. 
 ''You just need to get the things done, so you give them the votes to get the things done,'' he said in an interview. ''There is no question that some projects come out of it for our members, and that is not a bad thing.'' He added, ''Deal making is what Congress is all about.''
 Mr. Murtha can punish lawmakers, as well. Those who do not support the defense spending bill, for example, discover their next earmark requests go nowhere. ''Let me tell you the facts of life,'' Mr. Murtha said he tells balky legislators. ''If you vote against this bill, you won't have any input at all the next time.''
 Earmarks -- often buried deep in complex bills by unidentified lawmakers -- have come under new scrutiny since the conviction last fall of Representative Randy Cunningham, a California Republican on the defense-spending panel who accepted more than $2.4 million in bribes from contractors. The cost of earmarks has tripled in the last decade to about $64 billion a year, according to the Congressional Research Service. Mr. Murtha and other lawmakers say many earmarks are worthwhile, but critics charge that they waste taxpayers' money, encourage cronyism and foster self-dealing. 
 Some members of Congress complain that earmarks corrupt lawmaking in other ways. ''They are used as internal bribery in order to get members to vote for a piece of legislation they wouldn't ordinarily give two minutes to,'' said Representative David R. Obey of Wisconsin, the top Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee.
 No one is more adept at such trading than Mr. Murtha, say current and former members, Congressional aides and outside observers. ''He delivers Democrats for key votes, which increases his clout and ability to get more earmarks, which then increases his ability to get Democratic votes,'' said Steve Ellis, a vice president of Taxpayers for Common Sense. 
 Mr. Murtha leans right on abortion rights and gun control but left on labor, tax and economic issues. And he consistently opposes ethics reform or disclosure requirements, including a proposal this year that would have required lawmakers to sign their names to earmarks, on the grounds that voters police lawmakers' actions.
 He has sided with Republicans 169 times on close votes since 1994, more often than all but three of the most conservative Democrats. Many of those votes have been on nonideological but politically pivotal questions. For example, Mr. Murtha has often led members from his corner crowd to vote for procedural rules that limit potential amendments or debate on Republican bills -- votes that typically follow party loyalty. 
 Dick Armey, a former Republican majority leader, said his party's strategists would often tell him, ''Murtha will get us some votes.'' 
 At 74, Mr. Murtha remains an imposing figure: 6 feet 3 inches tall, with giant hands spread wide as he talks and size 12 shoes stuck out into the aisle. His corner perch is the only seat informally reserved for an individual lawmaker. ''No one else dares sit there,'' said Representative Mike Doyle, a Pennsylvania Democrat and Murtha protege.
 He can also be very persuasive, thanks to his position on the spending committee. ''If Jack Murtha tells you he needs your vote, then you would have to think very hard before not delivering it,'' said Representative James P. Moran, a Virginia Democrat who sits on the subcommittee and in Mr. Murtha's corner. ''There are just too many chits out there.'' 
 Members have watched with envy as Mr. Murtha has used earmarks to remake Johnstown, Pa., an impoverished former steel town that now includes a Murtha highway, a Murtha airport and Murtha health centers. He has steered billions of dollars to his district over the years, including more than $80 million in the defense spending bill passed Friday, according to a preliminary tally. 
 Mr. Murtha's patronage has transformed Johnstown into a national hub of the defense business, attracting giants like Lockheed Martin and Northrop Grumman. He even built one contractor from scratch. In 1988, Mr. Murtha asked the chancellor of the University of Pittsburgh to set up a nonprofit that could use Navy money to establish a Center for Excellence in Metalworking in Johnstown.
 Since then, Mr. Murtha has delivered earmarks to the organization, now called Concurrent Technologies Corporation, for work like consulting on counterterrorism, designing ejection seats for pilots and developing software. The military and other federal agencies have paid Concurrent nearly a billion dollars in grants and contracts since 1999. In the most recent defense bill, Mr. Murtha inserted $1.3 million for Concurrent to research Army tank designs. 
 ''It is Murtha's pet rock,'' said Stephen Gage, chief executive of an Ohio economic development organization that once worked with Concurrent.
 Concurrent's executives, in turn, have given more than $114,000 to the congressman's campaigns over the last three elections, making it one of his biggest corporate donors. The organization pays about $500,000 a year to a lobbying firm, the PMA Group, whose executives and clients have given Mr. Murtha more than $1.2 million in donations since 1999. 
 Mr. Murtha's brother, Kit, recently retired from a smaller lobbying firm, KSA Consulting, that sought defense earmarks and represented many companies in Mr. Murtha's district. From 1998 through 2003, he received more contributions from military contractors than has any other member of the House, according to the Center for Public Integrity, a nonpartisan group.
 Elected to the House in 1974, Mr. Murtha learned the politics of parochial projects from former Speaker Tip O'Neill, who named Mr. Murtha to the defense appropriations subcommittee and used him as his eyes and ears on the floor. 
 He survived a brush with scandal during the 1980 Abscam investigation, when he did not accept but did not rule out taking a $50,000 bribe from undercover agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; he eventually became a cooperating witness. 
 After becoming chairman of the defense spending panel in 1989, Mr. Murtha imposed a new discipline. Previously, the House often debated defense spending bills, which account for about half of federal discretionary spending, for weeks of contentious amendments and speeches, both in the committee and on the floor. Most Democrats often voted against the measures. ''It took day after day after day,'' Mr. Murtha recalled. 
 Not any more. Mr. Murtha installed a new system that the Republicans have continued: the chairman and ranking member work out the details behind closed doors, pack the bill with plenty of earmarks, and link future projects for members to their support for the bill. The appropriations committee now typically debates and approves the bill in less than eight minutes and the full House in less than half an hour. (The $437 billion measure passed last week took under 20 minutes.)
 ''The defense community has some presence in almost every Congressional district -- or so long as you vote for the bill, it does,'' said Mr. Moran, the Virginia Democrat. Mr. Murtha would ''see to it'' that members understood that those with earmarks in the bill who considered voting against it ''better set their sights lower the next time,'' Mr. Moran said.
 Mr. Murtha gave up the chairman's gavel when the Republicans took over the House in 1994 but managed to retain an unusual share of power. He has sole authority to grant nearly half the panel's earmarks and decide on all requests from Democrats, he said. Many minority appropriators work closely with their subcommittee chairmen, but Mr. Murtha's collaboration was especially close. He has worked for decades as a partner with the committee's senior Republicans. He still receives frequent visits from Representative Jerry Lewis, the California Republican who is chairman of the Appropriations Committee and is now under scrutiny in a federal investigation that grew out of the Cunningham scandal. 
 Mr. Murtha has used his influence in the caucus to place friends in strategic positions on appropriations committees and other House panels. Representative Nancy Pelosi, a California liberal who is the current Democratic leader, is a close Murtha ally. He put her on the appropriations committee early in her career and managed her campaign to be leader.
 His friends say Mr. Murtha often guides their votes, especially on defense matters. ''He is sort of like the general and we are the lieutenants,'' Mr. Doyle said. 
 Mr. Murtha takes care of his troops. Beginning with $1.5 million in 2003, for example, he has earmarked several million for the Doyle Manufacturing Technology Center to help lure military contractors to Mr. Doyle's district.
 Mr. Kanjorski, the Pennsylvania Democrat, said he had help on ''8 to 10'' projects, including a $9.5 million deal four years ago for research by a firm partly owned by his nephews. In an interview, Mr. Kanjorski said his relatives ''just happened to be the only people who would take responsibility'' for developing the technology, which involved using water jets to pulverize materials. He said he recently gave Mr. Murtha a pair of high-tech disease-resistant socks made with silver fibers by a company in his district. After padding around in them, Mr. Kanjorski said, Mr. Murtha was so pleased that he agreed to an earmark to buy them for soldiers.
 Other lawmakers have learned not to cross him. Aides to Representative Allyson Y. Schwartz, a freshman from the Philadelphia suburbs, say she has become a regular in the Murtha corner in part because her predecessor, a reform-minded Democrat who sometimes clashed with Mr. Murtha, suffered in his ability to obtain earmarks. In contrast, Mr. Murtha has helped Ms. Schwartz obtain a $7 million contract for a local defense firm and $150,000 to refurbish a historic inn in her district. 
 A spokeswoman for Ms. Schwartz said only that ''she is proud of her relationship with Mr. Murtha.'' (The predecessor, Joe Hoeffel, now a Pennsylvania development official, acknowledged disagreements with Mr. Murtha but said they had worked well together.)
 Mr. Murtha said he and his staff did their best to vet every earmark request but ultimately relied on the judgment of the members. He said he always asks, ''Is this worthwhile not only to your district but to the country?''
 Since Mr. Murtha announced his ambition to become party leader if the Democrats take the House this fall, supporters of his rival, Representative Steny H. Hoyer, the Maryland Democrat who is the party's whip, have begun quietly questioning Mr. Murtha's deal making. They argue that Mr. Murtha's pacts with Republicans should disqualify him for the job. Mr. Hoyer declined to comment.
 Mr. Murtha, for his part, argued that his experience brokering votes would be an asset if Ms. Pelosi became the speaker. Running the House with a slim majority would require bipartisanship and party discipline. ''I come across a little tougher,'' he said. ''And I do have a lot of people that vote with me on an awful lot of issues.''

 Representative John P. Murtha, the top Democrat on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, is known for delivering pet spending projects, or earmarks, to Democrats while rounding up Democratic votes for Republicans. He sits in a corner seat of the floor surrounded by allies. Here are some of the earmarks they have received from his committee.

Mike Doyle (D)
Pennsylvania, 14th District
Millions for the Doyle Center for Manufacturing Technology in Pittsburgh.

Alan B. Mollohan (D)
West Virginia, First District
$3.5 million for bomb-detecting robots. Resigned from the ethics committee amid an inquiry into his earmarks.

Tim Holden (D)
Pennsylvania, 17th District
300 Stryker light-armed combat vehicles for his district's National Guard.

John P. Murtha (D)
Pennsylvania, 12th District

Peter J. Visclosky (D)
Indiana, First District
More than $7 million for antidrug programs for students.

Paul E. Kanjorski (D)
Pennsylvania, 11th District
Money to buy disease-resistant socks for soldiers from Noble Fiber Technologies of Scranton, Pa.

James P. Moran (D)
Virginia, Eighth District
Another member of the subcommittee, he took credit for an $18.5 million project to commemorate Sept. 11.

John B. Larson (D)
Connecticut, First District
Millions for Pratt & Whitney, a major military contractor in his district.

(Source by Representative offices)(pg. A14)

GRAPHIC: Photos: A handmade sign shows the sentiments about Representative John P. Murtha at a rally of support Saturday in Johnstown, Pa. The event drew about 2,000 supporters despite chilly temperatures and rain. (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)(pg. A14)
 (Photo by Pablo Martinez Monsivais/Associated Press)(pg. A1)Chart: ''Turning Earmarks Into Power''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); VETERANS (88%); IRAQ WAR (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); LOBBYING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); MILITARY BENEFITS (74%); CORRUPTION (70%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (70%); VIETNAM WAR (69%); DEFENSE SPENDING (67%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (66%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (65%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (65%); FAMILY (65%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (64%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: JOHN P MURTHA (93%); PAUL E KANJORSKI (58%) John P (Rep) Murtha; David D Kirkpatrick

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHNSTOWN, PA, USA (73%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2006



48 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Cut Guatemala's Debt for Not Cutting Trees

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Oct. 1 

 BODY:
The United States government has joined with two environmental groups in a debt-for-nature swap, which will forgive about 20 percent of Guatemala's $108 million in foreign debt to Washington in an effort to help threatened tropical forests there, American and conservation officials said late last week. 
 In a deal to be announced Monday in Guatemala City, the government of Guatemala has agreed, in exchange for the debt forgiveness, to invest $24.4 million over the next 15 years in conservation work in four nature regions. 
 This is the largest amount of debt that has been forgiven by the United States under the Tropical Forest Conservation Act, which was enacted in 1998. So far, 10 countries, from the Philippines to Peru, have had part of their debt forgiven in exchange for forest protection efforts.
 ''You can't just come in as the U.S. and say it's important to protect those forests,'' Claudia A. McMurray, assistant secretary of state for oceans, environment and science, said in an interview. ''You have to give these countries alternatives.''
 In the latest deal, the United States government contributed about $15 million toward the cancellation of Guatemala's debt, said Clay Lowery, assistant secretary of the Treasury for international affairs. The groups Conservation International and the Nature Conservancy each contributed an additional $1 million. Those funds, and the interest they will generate, will be enough to erase more than $20 million in debt and interest, officials said.
 ''This is a huge deal for Guatemala,'' John Beavers, who helped to negotiate the deal for the Nature Conservancy, said in a telephone interview from Guatemala City. ''We hope it helps to drive the conservation area in Guatemala.''
 The country has struggled in recent years to control illegal logging and drug trafficking in its natural areas. Soldiers are deployed in some areas to stem the destruction.
 There is also a legal threat to Guatemala's parks. A business confederation has filed a suit contending that the law establishing the protected areas is unconstitutional, because it did not receive a two-thirds majority when the legislature approved it almost 20 years ago.
 The bulk of the money generated by the debt forgiveness will go to private organizations working to preserve the country's nature areas. A $4.9 million conservation trust fund will also be set up to generate interest income for future grants.
 The money will be spent in four of Guatemala's premier reserves, which include tropical and subtropical forests and coastal mangrove areas. The areas are home to many rare and endangered species.
 ''The areas protected in this agreement lie in the heart of Mayan civilization, and they are home to jaguars, scarlet macaws, harpy eagles and countless other species,'' Steven J. McCormick, president of the Nature Conservancy, said in a statement.
 The protected areas are the Cuchumatanes region, the Maya Biosphere Reserve, the Motagua/Polochic System and the Western Highlands volcanic chain.
 To qualify for the program, Guatemala had to meet a series of political and economic criteria. Eligible countries must have democratically elected governments and a suitable economic reform program in place, and they must cooperate with the United States on drug enforcement and counterterrorism efforts.
 An agreement under the program with Belize set aside 23,000 acres of new forest preserves and has helped to manage an additional 270,000 acres. One of two deals in Panama helped preserve the Chagres River Basin, which is a major source of water for the Panama Canal.


GRAPHIC: Map of Guatemala highlighting Maya Biosphere, Cuchumatanes National Park, and Western Highlands volcanic chain: Environmental groups are helping to preserve forests in Guatemala.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORESTS & WOODLANDS (92%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); PLANT CONSERVATION (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); INTERVIEWS (87%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (77%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (77%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (77%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); BIRDS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); ILLEGAL LOGGING (72%); BIOLOGY (72%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (62%); ARMED FORCES (62%); LITIGATION (62%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%) United States International Relations; Credit; Forests and Forestry

ORGANIZATION: CONSERVATION INTERNATIONAL FOUNDATION (82%); NATURE CONSERVANCY (54%) Conservation International; Nature Conservancy

PERSON: Marc Lacey

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); GUATEMALA (96%); PHILIPPINES (79%); MEXICO (79%) Guatemala

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2006



49 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Tokyo Journal; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Splitting a Hip Neighborhood, in More Ways Than One

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 1 

 BODY:
With its vintage clothing stores, live music clubs and cheap noodle shops, Shimokitazawa is Tokyo's answer to Greenwich Village, an epicenter of youth culture in one of Asia's trendiest metropolises.
 The neighborhood is popular for its cozy residential feel, drawing hordes of students and young office workers, who regularly throng its maze of narrow lanes and alleys.
Its tiny shops, many in converted houses or low-rise apartments, often bear names that recall a counterculture across the Pacific: the Village Vanguard Diner, Haight Ashbury, Mojo Rising. 
 But a shadow has fallen straight across the heart of this pulsing neighborhood. In four years, city officials plan to start building an 81-foot-wide thoroughfare that will slice Shimokitazawa in two.
 The road has set off a rare battle for preservation in a country where big construction projects have long been welcomed as progress and used to grease the wheels of politics. 
 The fight pits boutique and bar owners, among them the first bearers of hippie culture to the neighborhood three decades ago, against city hall and older residents who resent the relative newcomers.
 In cities from New York to Bucharest, the practice of plowing large roads through urban communities has been widely discredited. But Tokyo is only just beginning to consider the social costs, after decades of covering its medieval moats and rivers with highways, and replacing tile-roofed dwellings with featureless concrete buildings.
 ''Until now, nobody cared if we destroyed the culture and environment of Tokyo,'' said Mikiko Ishikawa, a professor at Keio University here who specializes in urban planning. ''People are gradually coming to understand that these things matter, too.''
 For many Tokyoites, the charm of Shimokitazawa (pronounced SHEE-mo-kee-tah-zah-wah) lay in the fact that it had escaped such redevelopment. A sleepy residential community on the city's outskirts, it escaped American wartime bombings. After Japan's defeat, it sprang to life as a bustling market for United States military surplus foods and clothing. 
 Another transformation occurred in the 1970's, when its wooden homes and twisting prewar alleyways attracted musicians, actors and anti-Vietnam War students. 
 So three years ago, when city officials gathered 1,500 residents and shop owners to announce the $140 million planned road, along with lifting building height restrictions, they were greeted with dismay and anger. 
 ''I couldn't believe it,'' said Kenzo Kaneko, 41, an architect who lives here. ''They just announced the death of the neighborhood, without asking us what we thought.''
 Mr. Kaneko and friends organized Save the Shimokitazawa, one of a handful of opposition groups that quickly appeared and have continued to protest. 
 On a recent Saturday night, more than 300 protesters -- older ones with shoulder-length graying hair tied back in ponytails, younger ones wearing paisley dresses or high-top sneakers and combat fatigues -- marched through the neighborhood holding candles.
 The marchers gathered in front of a Catholic church, a small underground theater and a strip of closet-size cocktail bars, among the hundreds of buildings the road is set to destroy. 
 ''We came to this neighborhood because it was different and unique,'' said Yutaka Oki, 61, who owns a live jazz club he opened here in 1975. ''If this road gets built, this atmosphere will be completely destroyed.''
 But the project also has many supporters, among them the Shimokitazawa shop owners' unions, which were founded right after World War II. They hope a broad boulevard will provide an escape route in an earthquake, and make it easier for buses and taxis to run through the neighborhood.
 Kuniyoshi Yoshida, a 71-year-old landowner who leads one of the unions, said that as the neighborhood, like the rest of Japan, grows older, residents place a higher priority on safety and convenience. He also said the newcomers had no right to complain, since most have refused to join his union and participate in neighborhood cleanups.
 That is not to mention the host of troubles that they have brought, he says: the crowds, graffiti, loud music, drunken revelers urinating on homes.
 ''They say this road will destroy the neighborhood,'' he said. ''But we original residents see it as progress.''
 Supporters and opponents alike agree the project is the work of the so-called road tribe. These are politicians who use public works to win votes, and lard their campaign chests with construction-related donations.
 The government spends $130 billion per year on building roads, said Takayoshi Igarashi, a professor of urban policy at Hosei University in Tokyo. ''Roads are still the king of kings in Japanese politics,'' he said.
 In Shimokitazawa, the road's leading backer is Noriyuki Kumamoto, the boss of Setagaya Ward, which houses the neighborhood. He has refused to be interviewed by reporters because of the road debate. But at a news conference in June, he said he wanted the road to ensure Shimokitazawa's vibrancy for years to come.
 Urban planning experts say such comments reflect a widely held belief in Japan that new roads and highways only benefit communities. 
 ''We're not just splitting Shimokitazawa,'' said Masahiko Toyama of the ward's roads department. ''We're adding good things.'' 
 Road opponents are pessimistic about their chances of stopping the project. The highest hurdle, they say, is the reluctance of most residents to speak out.
 Of the neighborhood's 1,500 shops, about 500 have joined a new alternative shop owners' union that opposes the road. But many other shop owners privately say they are afraid to oppose the road because of longstanding ties to the traditional shop owners' unions. 
 Moreover, many say privately that they are conflicted about a project that will also make them rich. Landowners along the road's path, who have subsisted for years on their tiny shops, now face the prospect of instant wealth as the city is expected to pay top yen for land.
 ''Many are sitting by silently as the neighborhood dies,'' said Masami Kobayashi, a professor of architecture at Meiji University here who has tried to persuade the city to accept less disruptive alternative road plans with no success. ''In 10 years, we will regret having done this.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Shops, bars, clubs and restaurants draw young people to Shimokitazawa, a teeming neighborhood of narrow lanes and alleys in Tokyo.
 At a vigil last month, opponents of a road through Shimokitazawa held candles that read ''Love Shimokita.'' (Photographs by Ko Sasaki for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); YOUTH MARKET (89%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); DRINKING PLACES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); TRENDS (71%); BOMBINGS (61%); VIETNAM WAR (61%) Roads and Traffic; Geographic Profiles; Social Conditions and Trends

PERSON: Martin Fackler

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (90%) Japan; Tokyo (Japan)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2006



50 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 346 words

 BODY:

METRICS GALORE -- There is a deluge of economic news this week, headlined by unemployment figures for September, which are expected to stay flat (Friday). Also of note will be vehicle sales for September, which are expected to nose up slightly (Tuesday) and same-store retail sales (Thursday). Other reports are the Institute for Supply Management manufacturing index for September and construction spending for August (Monday), factory orders for August and the Institute for Supply Management's nonmanufacturing index for September (Wednesday) and consumer credit for August (Friday). 


A PATRON GOES ON TRIAL -- The trial of Alberto W. Vilar, above, the former money manager and philanthropist who was indicted last year on charges of securities fraud and money laundering, is scheduled to start in federal court in Manhattan (Tuesday). Mr. Vilar, who used to run Amerindo Investment Advisors, is accused of diverting millions of dollars from his clients for personal use and to endow orchestras and opera houses. A prominent conductor, Valery Gergiev, put up $500,000 in cash to help secure Mr. Vilar's freedom on bail last year.

FREDDIE MAC CALL -- Freddie Mac, one of the government-sponsored mortgage finance companies, will hold a conference call for investors to discuss its preliminary results for the first half and second quarter of 2006 on Tuesday. The company does not plan to release full-year 2006 financial results until 2007. In April, the company agreed to pay $410 million in cash to settle a shareholder lawsuit over accounting errors that led it to restate three years of earnings; shareholders sued after the company's directors found that executives had played with accounting rules to reduce earnings volatility.

RELIEF FOR POPEYE -- Fresh spinach is expected to begin reappearing on the shelves of some supermarkets this week. Late last week, the Food and Drug Administration said that consumers could resume buying and eating fresh spinach. Several supermarket chains, including Whole Foods, Pathmark and D'Agostino, said they intended to make it available.

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); RETAIL SALES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); SAME STORE SALES (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (76%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (76%); CONSUMER LENDING (75%); INDICTMENTS (74%); ACCOUNTING (74%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (74%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (73%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (71%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (70%); MONEY LAUNDERING (69%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (68%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (67%); CONFERENCE CALLS (66%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (92%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); AMERINDO INVESTMENT ADVISORS (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (92%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (92%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2006



51 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2006
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Webdenda; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1539 words

HEADLINE: People and Accounts of Note

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
The Advertising Club, New York, presented honors to five brands for celebrity campaigns as part of its third annual ''Stars of Madison Avenue'' event. The honorees are: Alka-Seltzer, and Jay Kolpon, vice president for marketing and new business development, for a campaign created by BBDO Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group; Hanes, and David Robertson, director for brand communications, for a campaign created by the Martin Agency, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies; Johnson & Johnson, and Brian Perkins, corporate vice president for corporate affairs, for a campaign created by Lowe Worldwide, also part of Interpublic; MTV, and Christina Norman, president, for a campaign created internally; and Pizza Hut, and Bill Ogle, chief marketing officer, for a campaign also created by BBDO. 
 Helayne Angelus was elected president of the Network of Executive Women, succeeding Kimberly Betts, who becomes immediate past president. Ms. Angelus is vice president for global customer business diversity at the Procter & Gamble Company and Ms. Betts is a manager in human capital for Deloitte & Touche. 
Thierry Anglade joined 141 Worldwide, part of the WPP Group, as managing director for the New York office. He succeeds Rich Newman, who left last year, the agency said; in the interim, Craig Treankler, an executive vice president, had been leading the office. Mr. Anglade rejoins 141 from Colangelo Syngery Marketing, Darien, Conn., where he had been vice president and director for client services.
 Mike Caguin and Eric Husband returned to Colle & McVoy, Minneapolis, part of MDC Partners, as associate creative directors. They had left the agency last year to work as senior creative executives at Butler, Shine, Stern & Partners, Sausalito, Calif.
 The organizers of the Cannes Lions International Advertising Festival, held each year in Cannes, France, plan to begin an awards competition for advertising from the Middle East and North Africa. The competition, called the Dubai Lynx, is scheduled to start in March in Dubai, United Arab Emirates.
 Nick Chavin joined Posner Advertising, New York, as director for strategic and creative services, a new post. He had been president at Chavin Lambert/Creative Directors Advertising, New York, which is closing.
 The Chicago office of DDB Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group, named a new three-person management team as part of a reorganization. Paul Tilley, a group creative director, was named to the agency's senior creative post, managing director for creative. He assumes duties from Michael Folino, who left the agency in July -- seven months after he was hired as chief creative officer -- to join Wieden & Kennedy, Portland, Ore., as a creative director on Nike. Also at DDB Chicago, Don Hoffman, worldwide account director on McDonald's, was promoted to managing director for accounts, and James Lou, account planning director, was promoted to managing director for strategy. Messrs. Hoffman, Lou and Tilley report to Dana Anderson, president and chief executive at DDB Chicago. 
 Michael Durwin joined Fuse Ideas, Boston, as creative director, a new post. He has worked with several Boston agencies and before that handled Web work at Primus Technology, Lynn, Mass.
 Element 79, Chicago, part of the Omnicom Group, opened a sports-branding unit, Element 79 Sports, to be led by John Fraser, executive vice president, and Danny Schuman, senior vice president and group creative director.
 Boomer Esiason Foundation, which raises money to help find a cure for cystic fibrosis, named Dentsu America, New York, part of Dentsu, as its first outside pro bono agency.
 Fallon Worldwide, part of the Publicis Groupe, hired a creative team for its flagship Minneapolis office from Carmichael Lynch, Minneapolis, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. The team is composed of Hans Hansen, an art director who worked at Carmichael Lynch for 11 years, and Eric Sorensen, a copywriter who is rejoining Fallon Minneapolis, where he worked from 1995 to 1999.
 Carrie Hart joined the Television Bureau of Advertising, New York, as vice president for research, a new post. She had been research director at WCBS-TV, New York, owned by the CBS Corporation.
 Janet Kleve, associate creative director for copy at AbelsonTaylor, Chicago, was promoted to creative director.
 Daniel Lagani, vice president and publisher at the Conde Nast Bridal Group, New York, was named president for the Fairchild Fashion Group, overseeing properties that include DNR, Footwear News, WWD and wwd.com. The post was created in a reorganization; his predecessor, Edward Menicheschi, served as president at a unit called WWD Media Worldwide before leaving to join Vanity Fair magazine, part of Conde Nast Publications, as vice president and publisher. With Mr. Lagani's departure, the bridal group is being reorganized as Conde Nast Bridal Media and Susan Rerat was named to lead it as vice president and publishing director; she had been vice president and managing director at brides.com. All the companies involved are owned by Advance Publications.
 Kate Lapchick joined Gearon Hoffman, Boston, as an account executive, working on the D'Angelo Sandwich Shop and Papa Gino's accounts. Ms. Lapchick had been in account management at Digitas, Boston.
 Richard Luker joined Relay Sponsorship and Entertainment Marketing, Chicago, as chief strategy officer, a new post. He had been president at the Luker Company, Ann Arbor, Mich. Relay is part of the Publicis Groupe.
 Newspaper Association of America presented the Best in Show prize in the 2006 Athena Awards competition for outstanding creativity in newspaper advertising to Arnold Worldwide, Boston, part of the Arnold Worldwide Partners unit of Havas. The agency won for a campaign for the Volkswagen Passat that appeared in USA Today in September 2005. The campaign was composed of 120 ''teaser'' ads in small spaces, each representing a feature of the Passat, and ended with a full-page ad that collected all the teaser ads. Arnold has since lost the Volkswagen of America account to Crispin Porter & Bogusky, Miami, part of MDC Partners.
 Oink Ink Radio, New York and Venice, Calif., named the winners of its ninth annual ''Dead Radio'' contest, so named because the radio commercials winning prizes were killed by clients before they could be produced. The script awarded the grand prize was written by Cam Boyd at the Toronto office of Leo Burnett, part of the Publicis Groupe, for scorepoker.com, a Canadian Web site. The grand prize is a trip for two to the Oink Ink New York office to have the script produced. 
 The Red Brick Road, London, the agency started by Sir Frank Lowe, hired two executives from the London office of DDB Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group. Karen Fisher is joining as managing director; she had been head of account management at DDB London. And Justin Tindall is joining as a creative partner; he had been a creative part and head of art at DDB London. Paul Hammersley, partner at Red Brick Road, worked with both executives when he was chairman and chief executive at DDB London. 
 The DL Ryan Companies, Wilton, Conn., opened Active Brand Marketing, a division specializing in what is known as experiential marketing. The division will be led by Bob Petrosino, president, and Sean Conciatore, vice president and creative director. Mr. Petrosino had been president at the Chicago office of the Ryan Partnership unit of Ryan and Mr. Conciatore had been vice president and creative director there. Mr. Petrosino's Chicago post is being filled by Christine Nardi, who had most recently been president for the emerging business group at the Ryan Partnership in Wilton.
 Spotlight, an agency in Bucharest, Romania, was named to represent ICOM, Rollinsville, Colo., the independent agency network, in that country. Spotlight works for clients like Daewoo, KFC and Marriott.
 The Surfrider Foundation, San Clemente, Calif., named the Torrance, Calif., office of Saatchi & Saatchi, part of the Publicis Groupe, as its pro bono agency of record. Saatchi & Saatchi had been working with the foundation on a project basis.
 The Via Group, Portland, Me., promoted three employees to associate creative directors. They are: Chris Cote, who had been a senior designer; Ian Dunn, who had been a senior writer; and Steve LaChance, who had been a senior art director.
 0 Tori Winn joined the New York office of Strawberry Frog as interactive executive creative director, succeeding Paul Bichler, who left to join the New York office of Bartle Bogle Hegarty as digital creative director. Ms. Winn had been a creative director at the London office of AKQA.
 Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company, Chicago, chose the Bravo Group, New York, part of the Young & Rubicam Brands unit of the WPP Group, as its lead agency for advertising aimed at Hispanic consumers. That assignment had been handled by Lapiz, Chicago, part of the Leo Burnett Worldwide unit of the Publicis Groupe. Spending was estimated at $6 million to $8 million.
 -----
 Correction: An item that appeared in the Webdenda section of the Sept. 18 newsletter misspelled the surname of a principal and co-founder of Quadra Communications, a new agency. He is Brad Kalish, not Kulish. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); CELEBRITIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (89%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (89%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY (77%); WOMEN (72%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (93%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (92%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (90%); WPP PLC (90%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (71%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (69%); DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (69%); BUTLER SHINE STERN & PARTNERS LLC (66%); LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (58%); PIZZA HUT INC (56%); OGILVYACTION (55%); MDC PARTNERS INC (54%); POSNER ADVERTISING (53%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (93%); IPG (NYSE) (92%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (90%); WPP (LSE) (90%); JNJ (NYSE) (71%); PGP (PAR) (69%); PG (NYSE) (69%); MDZ.A (TSX) (54%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (93%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (90%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (90%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (90%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (71%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (69%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (69%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (69%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (69%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (69%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (56%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

PERSON: BRADBURY H ANDERSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (69%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (53%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (51%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (86%); MINNESOTA, USA (69%); CONNECTICUT, USA (54%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%); OREGON, USA (51%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (93%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (69%); MIDDLE EAST (53%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2006



52 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Things Fall Apart

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Right after the 2004 election, it seemed as if Thomas Frank had been completely vindicated. In his book ''What's the Matter With Kansas? How Conservatives Won the Heart of America,'' Mr. Frank argued that America's right wing had developed a permanent winning strategy based on the use of ''values'' issues to mobilize white working-class voters against a largely mythical cultural elite, while actually pursuing policies designed to benefit a small economic elite.
 It was and is a brilliant analysis. But the political strategy Mr. Frank described may have less staying power than he feared. In fact, the right-wing coalition that has spent 40 years climbing to its current position of political dominance may be cracking up. 
At its core, the political axis that currently controls Congress and the White House is an alliance between the preachers and the plutocrats -- between the religious right, which hates gays, abortion and the theory of evolution, and the economic right, which hates Social Security, Medicare and taxes on rich people. Surrounding this core is a large periphery of politicians and lobbyists who joined the movement not out of conviction, but to share in the spoils.
 Together, these groups formed a seemingly invincible political coalition, in which the religious right supplied the passion and the economic right supplied the money. 
 The coalition has, however, always been more vulnerable than it seemed, because it was an alliance based not on shared goals, but on each group's belief that it could use the other to get what it wants. Bring that belief into question, and the whole thing falls apart.
 Future historians may date the beginning of the right-wing crackup to the days immediately following the 2004 election, when President Bush tried to convert a victory won by portraying John Kerry as weak on defense into a mandate for Social Security privatization. The attempted bait-and-switch failed in the face of overwhelming public opposition. If anything, the Bush plan was even less popular in deep-red states like Montana than in states that voted for Mr. Kerry. 
 And the religious and cultural right, which boasted of having supplied the Bush campaign with its ''shock troops'' and expected a right-wing cultural agenda in return -- starting with a constitutional amendment banning gay marriage -- was dismayed when the administration put its energy into attacking the welfare state instead. James Dobson, the founder and chairman of Focus on the Family, accused Republicans of ''just ignoring those that put them in office.''
 It will be interesting, by the way, to see how Dr. Dobson, who declared of Bill Clinton that ''no man has ever done more to debase the presidency,'' responds to the Foley scandal. Does the failure of Republican leaders to do anything about a sexual predator in their midst outrage him as much as a Democratic president's consensual affair? 
 In any case, just as the religious right was feeling betrayed by Mr. Bush's focus on the goals of the economic right, the economic right suddenly seemed to become aware of the nature of its political allies. ''Where in the hell did this Terri Schiavo thing come from?'' asked Dick Armey, the former House majority leader, in an interview with Ryan Sager, the author of ''The Elephant in the Room: Evangelicals, Libertarians and the Battle to Control the Republican Party.'' The answer, he said, was ''blatant pandering to James Dobson.'' He went on, ''Dobson and his gang of thugs are real nasty bullies.''
 Some Republicans are switching parties. James Webb, who may pull off a macaca-fueled upset against Senator George Allen of Virginia, was secretary of the Navy under Ronald Reagan. Charles Barkley, a former N.B.A. star who used to be mentioned as a possible future Republican candidate, recently declared, ''I was a Republican until they lost their minds.''
 So the right-wing coalition is showing signs of coming apart. It seems that we're not in Kansas anymore. In fact, Kansas itself doesn't seem to be in Kansas anymore. Kathleen Sebelius, the state's Democratic governor, has achieved a sky-high favorability rating by focusing on good governance rather than culture wars, and her party believes it will win big this year. 
 And nine former Kansas Republicans, including Mark Parkinson, the former state G.O.P. chairman, are now running for state office as Democrats. Why did Mr. Parkinson change parties? Because he ''got tired of the theological debate over whether Charles Darwin was right.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); RELIGION (88%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (75%); LOBBYING (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); GAYS & LESBIANS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (71%); SEX OFFENSES (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); ABORTION (67%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (67%); MARRIAGE LAW (62%); MARRIAGE (60%); EVOLUTION THEORY (53%); HISTORY (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: FOCUS ON THE FAMILY (59%) Focus on the Family

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); PAUL KRUGMAN (55%) George W (Pres) Bush; Dick Armey; James C (Dr) Dobson; Paul Krugman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2006



53 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: Curing the Debt Addiction

 BODY:
The Treasury secretary, Henry Paulson Jr., capped off his recent trip to China with a visit last week to Capitol Hill. His aim was to dissuade Senator Charles Schumer, Democrat of New York, and Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, from moving forward on their bill to impose punitive tariffs on China. The two senators accuse China of manipulating its currency, the yuan, to gain an unfair trade advantage. 
 Mr. Paulson was right to try to parry the senators' protectionist efforts, and he has succeeded, for now. But the issue will persist so long as he fails to satisfactorily address a root cause of mounting protectionist pressures: the United States' growing indebtedness to the rest of the world.
Instead, Mr. Paulson recently told reporters that the nation's deficit in trade and other international transactions -- on track this year to reach $800 billion, or nearly 7 percent of the economy -- is actually a sign of strength. America has kept the world prosperous, he said, by buying global goods. 
 Come again? America's borrow-and-spend ways have indeed juiced the global economy. But the resulting indebtedness makes the country vulnerable to the protectionism Mr. Paulson wants to avoid, as well as to broader economic disarray. 
 Many American businesses -- and politicians -- see the mounting trade deficit and immediately cry foul. Demands for tariffs are the predictable, if misguided, reaction. Protectionism conveniently shifts the blame for trade-related hardships to foreigners, which is easier than adapting homegrown business practices to make America more competitive. 
 There are other dangers. If lenders like China began to doubt the strength of the American economy, they could put their money elsewhere, driving up American interest rates, perhaps sharply. 
 To reduce excessive foreign borrowing, it is imperative to reduce the federal deficit. To that end, Mr. Paulson has pledged to help the Bush administration find ways to curb Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. That would certainly cut the budget, but at the cost of weakening the already frayed safety net -- at precisely the time when increasing globalization is creating economic hardship for many Americans. It would be far better to start a deficit reduction effort by calling for a moratorium on further tax cuts and allowing other Bush-era tax cuts to expire as scheduled. 
 That, along with continuing efforts to adjust exchange rates in China and other countries, would lower the risks the United States is now courting. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); EXCHANGE RATES (76%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (76%); CURRENCIES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); FOREIGN LENDING (73%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); MEDICARE (67%); INTEREST RATES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); BUDGET CUTS (63%); MEDICAID (54%) 

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (92%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (73%); CHARLES SCHUMER (72%) Henry M Jr (Sec) Paulson; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (97%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2006



54 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: ROBERTS COURT MAY BE DEFINED IN SECOND TERM

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 1 

 BODY:
If Year 1 was the transition for the new Roberts court, Year 2 is likely to be the test.
 During the first term under the leadership of Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., the justices were able to find common ground with some regularity by agreeing not to decide much. By the time the term ended in late June, the extent to which the members of the newly configured court were prepared to confront either precedent or one another remained unclear.
Chances are high that the new term, which begins on Monday, will be different. The cases that the court has agreed to decide -- 38 so far -- offer few off-ramps, requiring instead that the justices proceed to rulings that will define the new court in both substance and style. 
 Less than six weeks from now, for example, the court will hear the Bush administration's defense of the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act of 2003. While there are some secondary issues, there is no escaping the fact that at the end of the day, the Supreme Court will have to declare whether the federal statute is constitutional. In doing so, it will have to grapple with the meaning of a 5-to-4 decision that struck down a similar state law six years ago. The administration will argue that if the federal statute cannot coexist with that precedent, the court should overrule the earlier case.
 Two cases on whether public school systems can take race into account in maintaining balance in individual schools do not confront the court's precedents quite as directly. But coming only three years after a sharply divided court permitted the continued use of race in university admissions, the decisions in these cases will provide the first clear indication of where the center now lies on questions of race and public policy after the retirement of Justice Sandra Day O'Connor. Justice O'Connor held the balance of power on such questions for years, and wrote the opinion three years ago in the case from the University of Michigan Law School.
 The business community is watching several cases closely, particularly an appeal of a $79.5 million award of punitive damages against the cigarette maker Philip Morris, upheld by the Oregon Supreme Court on behalf of the family of a smoker who died of lung cancer. 
 Of all the areas of Supreme Court doctrine most likely to be affected by the court's change in membership, punitive damages ranks high on the list. It is also something of a wild card, because the question of whether the constitutional guarantee of due process places any substantive limits on the award of punitive damages by state courts has divided the court in a way that follows no ideological pattern, and the inclinations of the new justices are unknown. 
 The consistent dissenters from the court's effort to curb punitive damages have been Justices Antonin Scalia, Clarence Thomas and Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justice O'Connor were in the majority in seeking to limit punitive damages. If their successors, Chief Justice Roberts and Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., agree with the dissenters, the court's shift could be abruptly and bitterly disappointing to those encouraged by the court's halting but increasingly assertive steps in setting boundaries on punitive damages.
 The new chief justice has made some notable administrative choices since the last term ended. As his administrative assistant, he hired Jeffrey P. Minear, a senior lawyer in the office of the solicitor general and a longtime familiar figure at the court.
 The title of administrative assistant understates the role its holder plays in the day-to-day management of the court. Previous administrative assistants have come from a variety of backgrounds; Chief Justice Rehnquist's last assistant, Sally M. Rider, had held several top-level positions as a government lawyer. But none has ever been the chief justice's professional peer, as Mr. Minear clearly is. His 56 Supreme Court arguments, in fact, surpass Chief Justice Roberts's 39. Both men are the same age, 51.
 In another development, the court has revised its practice of waiting two or three weeks to post argument transcripts on its Web site. Beginning on Tuesday (in observance of Yom Kippur, the court has scheduled no arguments on Monday), the court will post transcripts on the day of argument at www.supremecourtus .gov. While the court continues to resist television coverage of its sessions, the change is a step toward public access that would have been unthinkable only a few years ago.
 These are some of the leading issues for the new term:

Abortion Rights
 Two federal appeals courts, in St. Louis and San Francisco, declared the federal Partial-Birth Abortion Act of 2003 unconstitutional, basing their rulings on the Supreme Court's decision in Stenberg v. Carhart, which struck down Nebraska's similar law six years ago. The new cases, Gonzales v. Carhart, No. 05-380, and Gonzales v. Planned Parenthood, No. 05-1382, are the Bush administration's appeals of those rulings.
 The statute outlaws a surgical procedure that doctors use to perform abortions after about 12 weeks of pregnancy. In its decision six years ago, the Supreme Court held by a vote of 5 to 4 that the law had to take into account medical judgments that the procedure was sometimes necessary for a pregnant woman's health. 
 Congress responded by enacting a federal law without a health exception, declaring that the procedure was never necessary to protect a pregnant woman's health. Among other issues, the new cases therefore present the issue of the respective roles of Congress and the court in defining the scope of constitutional rights, an issue on which Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, a dissenter in the case six years ago, has been particularly protective of the court's role.

Racial Quotas in Schools
 Federal appeals courts upheld student assignment plans in Louisville, Ky. (Meredith v. Jefferson County Board of Education, No. 05-915) and Seattle (Parents Involved in Community Schools v. Seattle School District No. 1, No. 05-908). Both cities have long struggled to achieve integration, and now seek to maintain it by taking race into account in limiting students' choices of which schools to attend.
 While many justices are wary of ''this divvying us up by race,'' as Chief Justice Roberts phrased it in a voting rights case last term, the same justices also tend to support local education policies. The National School Boards Association is filing a brief supporting the school systems, while the Bush administration is arguing that the assignment plans are unconstitutional.

Punitive Damages Limits
 The court has laid down various markers for curbing the discretion of state court systems to award punitive damages. In Philip Morris USA v. William, No. 05-1296, the Oregon Supreme Court upheld the $79.5 million award, nearly 100 times the compensatory damages a jury had awarded the smoker's widow. 
 This is far greater than the 10-to-1 ratio that the court's most recent decision, State Farm v. Campbell in 2003, suggested as the outer limit of due process. On the other hand, earlier cases concerned economic rather than physical injuries. The court's new membership aside, this case is sufficiently distinctive in several ways so as to make the outcome unpredictable.

Air Pollution Regulation
 Two cases present interpretive issues under the Clean Air Act. In Massachusetts v. Environmental Protection Agency, No. 05-1120, 16 states and other parties are challenging the Bush administration's view that Congress has not authorized federal regulation of motor vehicle emissions that contribute to global warming. The question in Environmental Defense v. Duke Energy Corporation, No. 05-848, is what the law requires of utility companies seeking to modernize aging power plants.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); DAMAGES (89%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (87%); LAWYERS (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); DUE PROCESS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); SMOKING (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (71%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (69%); TOBACCO MFG (65%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (65%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (63%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%); ABORTION (53%); LUNG CANCER (50%); CANCER (50%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: Supreme Court (US) ; Supreme Court (US) ; Philip Morris Usa

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (92%) John G Jr (Chief Justice) Roberts; Linda Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%) OREGON, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Seattle (Wash); Louisville (Ky)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2006



55 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Leader of Britain's Conservatives Claims Political 'Center Ground'

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL

DATELINE: BOURNEMOUTH, England, Oct. 1 

 BODY:
David Cameron, the youthful leader of Britain's resurgent Conservative opposition, on Sunday sought to shift his party away from the steely legacy of Margaret Thatcher, urging it to claim a ''center ground where you find the concern, the hopes and the dreams of most people and families in this country.''
 Mr. Cameron, 39, was speaking at his party's annual conference in this blustery and faded resort on the southern coast, part of the British political fall ritual whereby parties at their gatherings seek to define their message, rally supporters and glue fissures in their ranks. Last week, Prime Minister Tony Blair addressed his Labor Party's conference for what he said would be the last time before he leaves his post. Mr. Cameron's address, by contrast, was his first since he won the party leadership 10 months ago. 
 Senator John McCain, a potential Republican presidential contender in 2008, also addressed the Conservative conference. Each man lauded the other and his prospects. Mr. Blair had invited Bill Clinton to his gathering, and Mr. Cameron described his view of the difference: ''Labor got the past president of the United States. We wanted the next one.'' 
 The gathering here follows months of efforts by Mr. Cameron to create for the party a new political mood, more attuned to environmental concerns, smaller central government and what he called family-friendly issues. He has been rejecting the image conjured by the Conservative's foes of an oft-divided party of rich, self-centered, right-wing Euroskeptics.
 But he said he would not go into detail about how he would transform his party until later in the four-day conference, inspiring a taunt from the environment minister, David Miliband, an ally of Mr. Blair's, that ''empty rhetoric and vacuous slogans are not enough'' and that Mr. Cameron was ''all style and no substance.'' Conservatives have used similar words to criticize Mr. Blair.
 Like other opposition figures who spoke Sunday, Mr. Cameron urged Conservatives to take more responsibility for their destiny. 
 ''Our party's history tells us the ground on which political success is built -- it is the center ground, not the bog of political compromise, not the ideological wilderness out on the fringes of debate,'' he said. ''The center ground is where you find the concern, the hopes and the dreams of most people and families in this country.'' 
 In 1979, when Mrs. Thatcher took power, he said, Britons wanted a government that would tame labor unions and revive the economy.
 ''Margaret Thatcher offered precisely that alternative and this party can forever take pride in her magnificent achievement,'' he said. ''Today, people want different things.'' 
 ''For too long, we were having a different conversation,'' he said. ''Instead of talking about the things that most people care about, we talked about what we cared about most. While parents worried about child care, getting the kids to school, balancing work and family life, we were banging on about Europe.''
 He added: ''For years this country wanted -- desperately needed -- a sensible center-right party to sort things out in a sensible way. Well, that's what we are today.'' 
 His speech drew a rapturous response from delegates like Kevin Dewey, a Conservative campaigner from Surrey in southern England, who called the address ''inspirational.''
 ''It answered some questions that we had been asking about where the party is going,'' he said in an interview. 
 Angharad Davies, another delegate from southern England, said she had been surprised that there had been so little evident complaint from more right-wing party members. The speech, she said, was ''idealistic and optimistic, and that's what the people need in Britain.''
 Since he took over the leadership of the Conservatives, Mr. Cameron has enjoyed a political honeymoon, scoring ahead of Labor in opinion surveys. But the gap is narrowing, prompting some political experts to say Mr. Cameron needs to enhance his party's self-confidence and prospects with the vision of victory in Britain's next national vote, expected in 2009.
 Mr. Cameron enjoined his followers: ''Let sunshine win the day. Let everyone know that the Conservative Party is ready to fight, ready to win.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); LABOR UNIONS (69%) Politics and Government

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (92%); DAVID MILIBAND (79%); TONY BLAIR (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); BILL CLINTON (57%) David (Mp) Cameron; Alan Cowell

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (96%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2006



56 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Peru's Leader Uses 2nd Chance to Rewrite Legacy 

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru, Oct. 1 

 BODY:
Sixteen years ago, Alan Garcia exited the ornate presidential office here with a 7 percent approval rating and an economy teetering from 7,000 percent annual inflation. He also left an array of nationalist policies that would make today's crop of South American populists, like Hugo Chavez of Venezuela, blush.
 Now, two months into a new term as president, he has a 58 percent approval rating and is recasting himself as the region's anti-Chavez. He says he is eager to build a different legacy from that of the food shortages, the confrontation with foreign lenders and the Maoist insurgency that operated with ease in this coastal capital when he was in office the first time around. ''I attended my own funeral in the 1990's, after a youthful presidency,'' Mr. Garcia, 57, said Saturday in an interview, describing years of attempts to restart his political career as he battled charges of corruption and mismanagement. ''God, in whom I firmly believe, and the Peruvian people have given me a second chance.'' 
 Even in a region known for allowing its politicians another turn at power, Mr. Garcia's resurrection is rare. Banished into exile and scorned for nearly a decade after his first term, he won a narrow victory in June against Ollanta Humala, a former army officer whom many voters saw as a lackey of Venezuela.
 Mr. Garcia is now surprising many people here by aggressively pushing market-friendly policies, a shift that he plans to highlight in a meeting with President Bush in Washington on Oct. 10. Mr. Garcia says he laments the relatively low levels of recent American investment in Peru, though Chinese and Spanish economic interests have climbed markedly in recent years.
 One of his first moves was to negotiate personally with Texas oil executives to advance plans for a $3 billion gas-export project. He also sent Hernando de Soto, an economist and author, as an envoy to Washington to push for the approval of a free trade agreement with the United States before the end of the year, when trade preferences for exports like asparagus and tuna are set to expire.
 Packing his cabinet with fiscally conservative technocrats, Mr. Garcia has not only tried to appear as a counterforce to Mr. Chavez. He has also distanced his words and policies from those of less fiery leftists in South America, like President Nestor Kirchner of Argentina.
 Trading insults with Mr. Chavez has allowed Mr. Garcia to portray himself as a moderate. In their most recent spat, Mr. Chavez said Mr. Garcia had used ''fraud'' to win the election. Though Mr. Garcia carefully tries to avoid referring to Mr. Chavez by name, his feelings about Venezuela's president are clear.
 ''If oil was at $9 a barrel, no one would listen to what comes out of that country,'' Mr. Garcia said. The tension with Mr. Chavez points to the shrewd instincts Mr. Garcia has shown since entering politics in his 20's after studies in Spain and France. Jorge Bruce, a psychoanalyst and commentator, said Mr. Garcia was ''unpredictable in that he changes with incredible ease.''
 ''He has decided to evolve politically but at his core he remains a born populist,'' Mr. Bruce said.
 Mr. Garcia's populist tendencies seem to have been submerged, however, as he reaches out to Washington in several delicate areas. Coca cultivation in Peru, the second largest producer of cocaine after Colombia despite years of eradication efforts, remains a sore point. Though he said cocaine producers thrived because demand in the United States and elsewhere was strong, Mr. Garcia said he had made an offer to Mr. Bush to speed extradition of more than 24 detainees in Peru said to be members of the Tijuana cartel, which oversees shipment of cocaine to the United States through Mexico.
 ''Take them off my hands,'' Mr. Garcia said, referring to his fears that drug violence could escalate in Peru after the recent killing of a judge who was trying people suspected of being members of the cartel. ''Unfortunately, I haven't yet received a response.''
 Such gestures might seem at odds with the Mr. Garcia of the 1980's and 1990's; he was prevented from traveling to the United States for years as he struggled, ultimately with success, against charges of corruption.
 ''Ironically here's this president who is now extremely accommodating to foreign investment, but without such a strong focus on social issues,'' said Michael Shifter, vice president for policy at the Inter-American Dialogue. ''He's haunted by his disastrous first government.''
 Mr. Garcia's drift toward the center has been eased by his inheriting an economy thriving from demand for exports, like silver and zinc. Still, details are sparse as to how he will address persistently high poverty levels while he speaks with admiration of Roosevelt's New Deal. Social spending in Peru is just 8 percent of gross domestic product, far behind other countries like Bolivia and Colombia, according to the Apoyo Institute, a research organization.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 4, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about the political resurrection of Alan Garcia, a former president of Peru who recently was elected to a new term after a prolonged absence, misstated his approval rating when he completed his last term 16 years ago. It was 21 percent, not 7 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); POLITICS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); APPROVALS (73%); FOREIGN LENDING (70%); CONSERVATISM (68%); CORRUPTION (67%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (67%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (55%); ARMIES (53%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Ratings and Rating Systems; United States International Relations; Credit; Public Opinion

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); NESTOR KIRCHNER (58%) Alan (Pres) Garcia; George W (Pres) Bush; Hugo (Pres) Chavez; Simon Romero

GEOGRAPHIC: PERU (95%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (93%); ARGENTINA (79%) Peru

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2006



57 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health&Fitness; VITAL SIGNS: AT RISK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 288 words

HEADLINE: A Link Between Poverty and a Telltale Protein

BYLINE: By Nicholas Bakalar

 BODY:
People living below the poverty line are more likely to have very high levels of C-reactive protein, a marker of inflammation that increases the risk for heart disease and death, a new study has found. 
 C-reactive protein is produced in response to injury or infection, but some people have chronically high levels of it. The study, published in the September issue of Brain, Behavior and Immunity, found no significant difference by socioeconomic status in those with moderate or high levels of C-reactive protein, but there was a significant difference in very high levels.
The researchers used data from a nationally representative group of 7,634 adults who were 20 and older and who enrolled in the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. Only 9.1 percent of participants above the poverty line had C-reactive protein levels above 10 milligrams a liter, compared with 15.7 percent of people below the poverty level.
 About two-thirds of the high levels could be attributed to acute or chronic illness, obesity and lack of exercise. The explanation for the rest was unknown. Dawn E. Alley, the study's lead author, said, ''People in poverty are more susceptible to infection, and because they lack health care and have other social stresses, they are less likely to recover.''
 The authors acknowledged that C-reactive protein data were available only at one time point and that some data collection relied on self-reports, which can be biased. It is impossible based on these data, they write, to conclude that poverty itself is a cause of very high levels of the protein.
 Dr. Alley, who completed the study while at the University of Southern California, is now a postdoctoral fellow at the University of Pennsylvania.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Stuart Goldenberg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (92%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (91%); RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); HEART DISEASE (90%); AMINO ACIDS PEPTIDES & PROTEINS (90%); DISEASE MARKERS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); WRITERS (89%); CHRONIC DISEASES (78%); TRENDS (78%); NUTRITION (78%); POVERTY RATES (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); OBESITY (73%) Heart; Proteins; C-Reactive Protein; Economic Conditions and Trends; Research; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (59%) University of Southern California; Brain, Behavior and Immunity (Journal)

PERSON: Nicholas Bakalar; Dawn E (Dr) Alley

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2006



58 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: State to Get $1.5 Billion From U.S. to Aid in Hospital Trims 

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
The Bush administration has agreed to pay New York $1.5 billion over five years to help stabilize the state's financially troubled hospital industry, state and federal officials said yesterday. In return, the state will move forward with shrinking that industry, cutting Medicaid costs, and sharply increasing the sums it recovers from Medicaid fraud.
 Along with a $1 billion commitment the state has made of its own money, the long-sought agreement, to be announced today by state and federal officials, is considered a crucial piece of Gov. George E. Pataki's push to reshape the health care business in New York. 
The state intends to close under-used hospitals and improve the economic health of those that remain, and to steer people to cheaper health care alternatives than the ones they use now, like outpatient clinics rather than emergency rooms, and in-home care rather than nursing homes.
 Hospital closings can carry steep short-term costs, like paying off outstanding debts, paying severance to workers, and converting acute-care buildings to outpatient clinics. In addition, the state's plans call for heavy investment in computer technology for the surviving hospitals.
 No other state has negotiated a similar deal, and none are likely to, officials said. The hospital industry in most states, like their populations, is growing; New York's industry is shrinking, and is in uniquely bad financial shape.
 ''This agreement is a tremendous win for New Yorkers,'' said Michael Marr, a spokesman for the governor. He said it would help ensure that the industry ''remains strong, efficient and sustainable for many years to come.''
 The logic behind the deal, state officials say, is that smart investments will allow the state to reduce the cost of New York's Medicaid program, the government health plan for the poor, which is the most expensive in the nation, at about $45 billion a year. The federal government pays half that cost, so it would reap half the savings.
 To receive the money, the state must prove to Washington that it has actually cut costs, by meeting targets for reducing the use of hospitals and increasing the use of managed care plans within Medicaid. 
 The agreement between the state and the federal Department of Health and Human Services, which took 16 months to negotiate, contains a long list of specific conditions the state has to meet. Some are relatively simple -- in fact, the state is already carrying out some measures, like limiting which prescription drugs Medicaid recipients can get.
 But other requirements are much tougher, like a substantial increase in the amount of money the state must recover from Medicaid fraud prosecutions, a target much higher than the amount any state has recovered to date. State officials said the Medicaid fraud section involved especially tough negotiations.
 The agreement sets specific, year-by-year requirements for money collected from such cases, rising from more than $215 million in the second year to $644 million in the fifth and final year, state and federal officials said. Until last year, no state had collected more than $100 million in a year.
 It will fall to the winner of the November election for governor -- polls show Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, the Democrat, far ahead of John Faso, the Republican -- and to the Legislature to live up to the deal. 
 Until recently, such cases were handled almost exclusively by a unit of Mr. Spitzer's office, and his opponents this year have accused him of not doing enough to fight Medicaid fraud. He has countered that he has had neither the tools he needs -- including enforcement laws that exist in many other states -- nor enough cooperation from the state Department of Health. Today's deal with the federal government may increase the pressure on state officials to change those factors.
 But the attorney general's office is no longer alone. In the past year, the state has created a Medicaid inspector general's office to pursue such cases, and some counties have won limited permission to pursue fraud. New York City officials are negotiating with the state to join that pilot program for counties, which would give the city a share of any money recovered. 
 If the state does not meet the fraud recovery goals, officials said, it will forfeit some of the money from Washington. The total penalties over five years are capped at $500 million.
 Failure to meet the other requirements could void the entire deal, jeopardizing the whole $1.5 billion, but those standards are likely to be easier to meet.
 The agreement was originally scheduled to be worked out by April 1, but the deadline was postponed several times, leading hospital executives to worry aloud that with less than three months left in Mr. Pataki's tenure, time was running out.
 Squeezed by health insurers, declining demand, decades of heavy borrowing and outright mismanagement in some cases, hospitals in New York have been in crisis for several years. About 20 have closed over the last five years, a few have filed for bankruptcy to reorganize their finances, and many others are in precarious condition.
 A commission created by Mr. Pataki and the Legislature will make a set of wide-ranging proposals, including closing or shrinking certain hospitals, and if the recommendations are not overruled by the governor or the Legislature, they will become law. The panel, headed by Stephen Berger, an investment banker and former state official, is expected to make its report by Dec. 1.
 Hospital executives and lawmakers say that without the infusion of federal money, it would be hard to carry out the commission's recommendations. The agreement to be announced today, in turn, requires that the state adopt those recommendations, and live up to them.
 The agreement, as described by state and federal officials, requires an unspecified new state effort to work with employers to buy insurance for low-wage workers, though this requirement does not impose any numerical targets. The state has such a program, Healthy New York, that insures 128,000 people and could be expanded.
 Another part of the deal is designed to address what state officials believe is the overuse of nursing homes, especially by people discharged from hospitals. In at least one region of the state, people who need long-term care would be referred to offices and Web sites that would explain options like ''assisted living'' centers or care in their own homes. The state would not require one choice over another.
 New York is already taking steps in that direction, and it is likely to be one of the goals set out by the Berger commission. The agreement with Washington would not require the state to prove that it had diverted anyone from nursing homes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (93%); HEALTH CARE (90%); MEDICAID (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MEDICARE FRAUD (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); ACUTE CARE (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (75%); CLOSINGS (73%); NURSING HOMES (72%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (71%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (60%) Medicine and Health; Medicaid; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Frauds and Swindling; Hospitals; Computers and the Internet; Medicine and Health; Shutdowns (Institutional); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: Richard Perez-Pena

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York State; New York State; United States

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2006



59 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2113 words

HEADLINE: Bridging a Racial Rift That Isn't Black and White

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

DATELINE: WILLACOOCHEE, Ga. 

 BODY:
The ministers close their eyes and raise their voices to the heavens and, for a moment, they are colorless. Two men who grew up desperately poor, who picked tobacco in the fields and hauled boxes at Wal-Mart and whose life journeys ultimately led them to the Lord and to each other.
 ''It's like praying with a brother,'' said the Rev. Harvey Williams Jr., 54, who is black.
 ''He looks out for me and I look out for him,'' said the Rev. Atanacio Gaona, 45, who is a Mexican immigrant. ''In the eyes of the Lord, there are no colors.'' 
 In this immigrant boomtown in Atkinson County, about 45 miles north of the Florida border, the ministers have forged a rare friendship that transcends the deep divide between blacks and Hispanics here.
 For centuries, the South has been defined by the color line and the struggle for accommodation between blacks and whites. But the arrival of hundreds of thousands of Hispanic immigrants over the past decade is quietly changing the dynamics of race relations in many Southern towns. 
 The two pastors find that the fault lines that separate their communities sometimes test their friendship and challenge their efforts to bring blacks and Hispanics closer together.
 Blacks here, who had settled into a familiar, if sometimes uneasy, relationship with whites, are now outnumbered by Hispanics. The two groups, who often live and work side by side, compete fiercely for working-class jobs and government resources. By several measures, blacks are already losing ground.
 The jobless rate for black men in Georgia is nearly triple that of Hispanic men, labor statistics show. More blacks than Hispanics fail to meet minimum standards in Atkinson County public schools. And many blacks express anguish at being supplanted by immigrants who know little of their history and sometimes treat them with disdain as they fill factory jobs, buy property, open small businesses and scale the economic ladder.
 ''If you have 10 factory openings, I would say Hispanics would get the majority of the jobs now,'' said Joyce Taylor, the Atkinson County clerk, who is black. ''And if you look at the little grocery stores, there are more Hispanic businesses than black businesses.''
 ''It's kind of scary,'' said Ms. Taylor, 44, whose daughter was laid off from a factory here. ''My children, looking forward, it may be harder for them.'' 
 Some Hispanics say African-Americans treat them with hostility and disparage them with slurs, even though blacks know the sting of racism all too well. They say many blacks are jealous of their progress and resent the fact that whites, who dominate the business sector, look increasingly to Hispanics to fill work forces. Blacks say employers favor immigrants because they work for less money.

An Area of Intense Feelings
 The killing of six Mexican farm workers in a robbery last year in Tifton, about 30 miles away -- and the arrest of four black men in the case -- has heightened the friction. Nothing so violent has occurred here, but some Hispanics say black criminals focus on immigrants in this town, too.
 Speaking of blacks, Benito Gonzalez, 51, a Mexican who has worked alongside them at a poultry plant, said: ''They don't like to work, and they're always in jail. If there's hard work to be done, the blacks, they leave and they don't come back. That's why the bosses prefer Mexicans and why there are so many Mexicans working in the factories here.''
 Such images stoke the debate over how to overcome tensions, which flared nationally this year when some African-Americans expressed anger and unease as immigrant groups hailed efforts to legalize illegal immigrants as a new civil rights movement. Although the push in Congress to create a guest-worker program has stalled, concerns about competition between black and immigrant low-wage workers remain.
 Those feelings resonate with particular intensity in the South, home to the nation's largest share of African-Americans and its fastest-growing population of immigrants, according to an analysis of census data by William H. Frey, a demographer at the Brookings Institution.
 The two Pentecostal ministers who pray together are men of faith who say they believe that blacks and Hispanics should be allies in the struggle to overcome discrimination and economic adversity, even though they acknowledge that interethnic unity is often hard to come by. 
 Mr. Williams, a thoughtful man who studied psychology in community college, ruminates in a weekly newspaper column on topics like spirituality, ethnic relations and his recovery from cocaine addiction 20 years ago. 
 Mr. Gaona, whose boyish looks belie his intensity, left school after second grade to help his father work the fields in Mexico. He entered the United States illegally and started picking tobacco here when he was 24. Over the past decade, he has received his citizenship and built his church from the ground up.
 The two men met working on a Wal-Mart warehouse floor in neighboring Coffee County around 1993 when Mr. Gaona was starting to deepen his faith and Mr. Williams, already a pastor, was looking for a ride to work. 
 Neither expected much from the acquaintanceship.
 Mr. Gaona, who said his perceptions of black Americans were shaped in Mexico by news reports of crime and violence in poor urban areas, recalled, ''I was thinking: 'He's black. Who knows what he wants from me?' I was just trying to keep my distance.'' 
 Mr. Williams said he never envisioned a friendship because he had never known blacks and Hispanics to be friends.
 ''I think I probably saw him as being a Hispanic,' he said, ''and I was only going to get so close.''
 Over the next five years, in their hourlong weekday commuting trip in Mr. Gaona's 1988 Oldsmobile and later in Mr. Williams's 1982 Ford station wagon, they discovered common ground. Both are divorced fathers. Mr. Williams has two sons and two daughters. Mr. Gaona has five boys.
 Both grew up poor, working in the fields. And both were trying to advance at Wal-Mart and searching for pathways to God. It was Mr. Williams who helped persuade Mr. Gaona to quit Wal-Mart to open the first Spanish-language church in this town. 
 Today, the men are remarried, full-time ministers who chat by telephone and disregard the diners at local restaurants who still gawk at the sight of a black man and a Hispanic man eating together. 
 But they also remain painfully aware of the fear and prejudice that remain in their communities. 
 Mr. Williams, who leads a working- and middle-class congregation of teachers, Civil Service workers and factory workers at the Union Holiness House of Deliverance, shakes his head as he describes the jokes about Mexicans with poor hygiene that circulate among some black people he knows. 
 ''It was not so long ago that we were the object of jokes,'' Mr. Williams said. ''I'm constantly having to remind people.''
 Mr. Gaona, whose flock at the Iglesia Alfa y Omega is dominated by factory and farm workers, says his members often describe American blacks as moyos, a derogatory Spanish term that sometimes refers to a black insect. He used the term, too, he admits, before he found God and his friend Mr. Williams. 
 ''Every now and then, I remind them that we need to respect people, no matter how they look or their color,'' Mr. Gaona said. "But mostly, we don't know them, and they don't know us. There's no real communication going on.'' 

Gaps and Similarities
 The tension simmers just below the surface in the quiet communities of bungalows and trailers where the two churches are situated. Five years ago, these neighborhoods were overwhelmingly black. Today, Hispanics and blacks account for 21 percent and 19 percent of the county population of about 8,000, respectively. 
 Lyrical Spanish chatter competes with the sweet Georgia drawl as blacks and Hispanics share streets, assembly lines, classrooms -- and hardships -- that could prove to be the basis of community and political alliances. The two groups appear more likely to be poor than whites. About 36 percent of Hispanics and 31 percent of blacks live in poverty in Atkinson County, census data shows; 17 percent of whites are poor.
 The two ethnic groups report experiencing some discrimination from non-Hispanic whites, who account for 60 percent of the population, and they view the blue-collar jobs in the factories that manufacture industrial fabrics and mobile homes as steppingstones to prosperity.
 School administrators and sociologists suggest that the gap between blacks and Hispanics in employment and education may stem in part from immigrant parents who push their children harder to succeed in schools and the immigrant zeal to find work, regardless of how much it pays. 
 Many black adults, who typically have more formal education than new immigrants, seethe at the disparities. In a town where neighborliness is entrenched, blacks and Hispanics often treat one another warily. 
 It is hard to envision such tension in the ministers' friendship, particularly as they laugh amid the wooden pews in Mr. Williams's church. But in many ways, they, too, keep their distance. 
 Despite more than 10 years' friendship, the two have never dined in each other's home. Their wives and children have never met, nor have their congregations.
 Mr. Gaona does not know the black families who live near him. And he has never addressed Mr. Williams's congregation, even though his friend has invited him several times. The minister says he feels uncomfortable preaching in English.
 Mr. Williams, who has spoken at his friend's church twice, says there is more to it. (Mr. Gaona's English, after all, is quite good.) 
 ''There's still a barrier there,'' Mr. Williams said. 
 He said the worshippers in Mr. Gaona's church seemed reluctant to mingle with him after his guest sermons there several years ago. 
 ''They are like standing on the side, you know, with their heads down as if waiting for me to leave,'' he recounted. ''They're uncomfortable. And that's one reason for not visiting him any more than I do. 
 ''It's one of my goals in life, to break down these nationality walls. But people are pretty divided. I just don't know if that's going to change.''
 Mr. Williams concedes that he, too, strives to do better. He does not know the name of the Hispanic family that lives near him. For a time, he refused to wave to Hispanic drivers on the road because they often hurt his feelings by ignoring him and the Southern tradition of greeting strangers. He has since decided to wave -- no matter what. 
 His wife, who did not grow up around immigrants, still feels a bit uncomfortable socializing with Hispanics, despite his long friendship with the Hispanic pastor.

A Shoulder to Lean On
 Mr. Gaona said he was recently taken aback when his 5-year-old came home from school and described his black classmates as moyos, the aspersion. 
 '' 'Why you need to call them like that?' '' Mr. Gaona said he asked his son. ''I'm trying to share with him that's not right. But that's what he hears.''
 Still, on most days the two men put aside such awkwardness and focus on supporting each other.
 When Mr. Gaona's computer became infected with a virus, he called Mr. Williams, who stopped by to help repair it. When state officials refused to renew his brother's driving license because his immigration papers were not in order, Mr. Gaona called Mr. Williams in frustration. 
 Mr. Williams relies on Mr. Gaona to interview Hispanic immigrants who ask to rent his church's social hall for parties. And it was his respect for the Hispanic pastor that helped persuade him to use his newspaper column to chastise Americans who disparaged the newcomers. 
 ''I believe that rather than be angry or envy those who have came to America and found success, we ought to be learning from them,'' Mr. Williams wrote.
 As the ministers meandered through their changing neighborhoods one afternoon, they considered taking their friendship to another level by preaching a joint service for their congregations. Though they knew it might never happen, they envisioned Spanish speakers and English speakers, newcomers and long timers' holding hands and praying beneath the oak trees.
 On that sultry summer afternoon, it felt good to dream about the possibility. Somehow, it felt like it just might be the start of something. 
 ''We'll get together one day soon and do one out in the open,'' Mr. Gaona said.
 Mr. Williams replied: ''That sounds good. That sounds good. We'll do that.''

The Latino South
 This is the second article in an occasional series looking at aspects of Hispanic life in the South. Other articles will deal with economic and social trends.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Revs. Atanacio Gaona, left, and Harvey Williams Jr. in Willacoochee, Ga., where the two men each have a church. They have forged a friendship that transcends the divide between Hispanics and blacks.
 Mr. Gaona's church, top, in Willacoochee, where Hispanics are a growing presence, according to census data. At a lumber company, Gregorio Hernandez, left, a Mexican immigrant, worked alongside Jesse Daniels. (Photographs by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)(pg. A19)Map of Georgia highlighting Willacoochee. (pg. A19)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); MEN (89%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (74%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); LABOR FORCE (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); FACTORY WORKERS (68%); STATISTICS (64%); SMALL BUSINESS (62%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%) 

PERSON: Rachel L Swarns; Atanacio (Rev) Gaona; Harvey Jr (Rev) Williams

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Southern States (US); Willacoochee (Ga)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2006



60 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: Across Nation, Housing Costs Rise as Burden

BYLINE: By JANNY SCOTT and RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD; Sam Roberts contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The burden of housing costs in nearly every part of the country grew sharply from 2000 to 2005, according to new Census Bureau data being made public today. The numbers vividly illustrate the impact, often distributed unevenly, of the crushing combination of escalating real estate prices and largely stagnant incomes.
 While many of the highest home values were on the coasts, in places like Southern California and Manhattan, many of the biggest jumps in the percentage of people paying a burdensome amount of their income for housing occurred in the Midwest and in suburbs nationwide, making it clear that the housing squeeze has reached deep into the middle class.
In New York City, more than half of all renters now spend at least 30 percent of their gross income on housing, a percentage figure commonly seen as a limit of affordability. In Staten Island, the percentage paying at least 30 percent of income rose to nearly 60 percent, up from 40. 
 Among suburban homeowners, there were big increases in the percentage of people with mortgages spending at least 30 percent in places like Loudon County, Va.; Morgan County, Ind.; Nassau County, on Long Island; and Bastrop County, Tex.
 ''Housing prices have gone up much more than incomes have,'' said Christopher Jones, vice president for research at the Regional Plan Association in New York City. ''Clearly, you can't sustain that sort of imbalance over the long run. There's only so long that housing prices can go up without sustained increases in income to support them.''
 The data, from the American Community Survey, was collected throughout 2005, some of it before the real estate market began softening over the past year.
 While the escalation in house prices that began in the mid-1990's has slowed down in most places, and while prices are even dropping in some markets, rents are currently rising.
 Historically, it is not unprecedented for housing prices to rise faster than household incomes, since housing prices fluctuate more than median incomes. In recent decades, median incomes have not risen at the rate that they did in the booming 1950's and 1960's, yet real estate prices in many parts of the country have escalated sharply in recent years.
 ''People want to hang on and stay in the market,'' said William H. Frey, a demographer at the Brookings Institution in Washington, ''and they are willing to stretch themselves to find or to rent a house that is suitable.'' 
 The places with the highest overall percentages of people carrying a heavy housing burden were in fast-growing areas of California, Colorado and Texas.
 In Southern California, Temecula and Hemet had the highest percentages of renters paying at least 30 percent, with 74 and 73 percent of renters at that level.
 Boulder, Colo., and College Station, Tex., held the record for renters spending at least 50 percent, with 47 and 46 percent.
 The biggest jump in the percentages of people paying at least 30 percent of their income on rent, as well as those spending at least 50 percent, occurred in Olathe, Kan., a booming suburb of 114,000 southwest of Kansas City. 
 S. Lawrence Yun, an economist with the National Association of Realtors, said renters in desirable cities might be spending more of their income on housing in hopes of getting a toehold in places with good schools, better homes and a good quality of life. He said, ''There is certainly a concern that people are devoting a large portion of their income to housing, and one of the reasons is due to the more limited housing supply.''
 In the New York region, a very high percentage of renters in urban counties spent a big share of income on housing. In the Bronx, Brooklyn and Queens, close to a third of all renters pay at least 30 percent.
 But many of the biggest increases in housing burdens occurred outside the city.
 Among homeowners, there were big increases in the percentage of people spending at least 30 percent on housing in counties like Nassau, Dutchess, Orange and Putnam. The percentage of households spending at least 50 percent of income also rose in those counties. 
 In Clifton, N.J., the percentage of mortgage holders spending at least 50 percent of their income on housing rose to 27 percent in 2005 from 12 percent in 2000, a 134 percent rise. In New Britain, Conn., the group paying at least 30 percent more than doubled, rising to 57 percent of people with mortgages, up from 27 percent.
 Nationally, the biggest increase in homeowners spending more than 30 percent of their income on housing occurred in an unincorporated area southeast of Los Angeles called Florence-Graham, where more than a third of residents live in poverty. There, the figure climbed to 43 percent from 17 percent. Other places with big jumps included Wyoming, Mich.; Round Rock, Tex.; and Plymouth, Minn.
 In general, the places with the highest overall percentages of homeowners spending that level of income were poorer cities. El Monte, Calif., a Los Angeles suburb, had the highest percentage of mortgage holders, 73 percent, spending more than 30 percent of their income on housing. In Newark, the figure was 72 percent; in El Cajon, Calif., east of San Diego, 69 percent; and in South Gate, Calif., 69 percent.
 Jack Kyser, senior economist with the Los Angeles County Economic Development Corporation, said such cities are often the only places that people on the lowest rungs of the economic ladder can afford and they tend to stretch their resources to get in. He said El Monte and South Gate both are growing, largely because Latinos have been moving in.
 ''These communities are well located to employment opportunities and they can drive and it is not a horrendous drive,'' he said. ''They are also close to public transportation and use it.''
 The numbers, which were analyzed for The New York Times by Andrew A. Beveridge, a demographer at Queens College, provided a glimpse of how hot -- and how unhot -- some areas had become.
 Two Southern California coastal cities, Santa Barbara and Newport Beach, had the highest median house values, at $1 million.
 Youngstown, Ohio, a city long hurting economically, had the lowest, at $48,000.
 In New York State, the median value of owner-occupied homes actually declined slightly in a few upstate counties, including Oswego, Steuben and Madison. The median house value dropped 9 percent in Buffalo, to $60,800.
 Housing values rose only barely in some upstate counties, including Cattaraugus, Cayuga, Chautauqua and Chemung. 
 Because of a change in census procedures, it was not possible yesterday to reliably gauge the increase in cost burden among homeowners in places with large numbers of condominium or cooperative apartments.
 In 2000, the bureau did not count owner-occupied apartments in multifamily buildings; in 2005, it did. So the 2000 and 2005 figures could not be satisfactorily compared for places like Manhattan and San Diego.
 In Manhattan, where the median value of all owner-occupied homes hit $718,000, the increase in median gross rents from 2000 to 2005 was 14 percent, well below the 20 percent jump in Suffolk County on Long Island, the 23 percent rise in the city of Passaic, N.J., and the 24 percent jump in Ulster County, N.Y. 
 The increase in the percentage of Manhattan renters paying at least 50 percent of their income on housing was 13 percent -- well below the 50 percent rise in Rockland County.
 The data also showed that, among couples living together in Manhattan, about 17 percent were unmarried in 2005, compared with 10 percent nationwide. 
 Manhattan appeared to have the second highest number of male couples living together, following Los Angeles.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 10, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article last Tuesday about the rising burden of housing costs nationwide misspelled the name of a Virginia county where census figures showed a big increase in the percentage of people spending at least 30 percent of their incomes on housing. It is Loudoun, not Loudon.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''Burden of Housing Debt Rises ''Maps of the United States highlight the following:National OwnersChange in the percentage of mortgage holders spending more than 30 percent of their income on housing, 2000 to 2005and Renters Share the PainNew York Area RentersChange in the percentage of renters spending more than 30 percent of their income on rent, 2000 to 2005Bronx: +10Queens: +12Brooklyn: +6Manhattan: +6Staten Island: +19(Sources by Census Bureau
 Andrew A. Beveridge, Queens College Department of Sociology)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); CENSUS (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); SUBURBS (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%) 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: Janny Scott; Randal C Archibold

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (91%) UNITED STATES (97%) Midwestern States (US); California; Colorado; Texas

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2006



61 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Optimism and Africa

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

DATELINE: MALABO, Equatorial Guinea 

 BODY:
The founding president of this country was a witch doctor who murdered tens of thousands, put enemies' heads on pikes, denounced education and spread land mines on the road out of his country to prevent people from fleeing. This was then so vile a place that an American diplomat stabbed another to death here in 1971 and claimed in his trial that he had been driven insane partly by the screams of all the people being tortured.
 When the president was finally ousted in 1979, he ran off into the bush with $60 million packed in suitcases. But he was pursued, and in a shootout, the nation's entire foreign exchange reserves burned up. 
This little country of Equatorial Guinea was, therefore, a useful place to visit with Casey Parks, the student journalist who won a contest to accompany me on this trip -- because it underscores one of the biggest challenges facing Africa today.
 That is the need for better governance, meaning both less corruption and better economic policies. The single greatest need to fight poverty and injustice isn't more aid, although that is needed. What matters most is the local decision makers. The single biggest reason Africa is so poor is that it has had unusually bad leadership -- a reflection, in turn, of colonial misrule. 
 Equatorial Guinea traditionally has been Africa's poster boy for bad governance. Even after the old witch doctor was ousted, the kleptocracy continued under Teodoro Obiang, the current president. A new book about the country, ''The Wonga Coup,'' notes that in 2004 President Obiang bought a Boeing 737, one of six personal planes, for $55 million, and outfitted it with a king-sized bed and gold-plated fittings in the extra-large bathroom.
 Schools and clinics are needy, but Forbes lists President Obiang as the world's eighth richest ruler, with a net worth of $600 million. Just last year, ''The Wonga Coup'' says, the president's son spent the equivalent of a third of his country's entire education budget on a vacation home in South Africa and three cars -- two Bentleys and a Lamborghini.
 That is grotesque, but it is changing. Here in Equatorial Guinea, torture has diminished, and two opposition members of Parliament provide token public criticism. The government is participating in Tony Blair's anticorruption initiative (a terrific program to help poor countries), and Prime Minister Ricardo Mangue told me that his government would begin publishing budgets to try to ensure more transparency. 
 We should help developing countries broadly, not just by writing checks but also by holding their feet to the fire on corruption and economic reform. An excellent new U.S. aid program, the Millennium Challenge Accounts, rewards good governance, and we can do even more. For example, as Joseph Stiglitz notes in his new book, ''Making Globalization Work,'' the West can modify bank secrecy rules so that it is harder for dictators to pillage their lands.
 The time is right, because all across Africa, countries are increasing efforts to fight corruption and improve the investment climate. The World Bank's latest ''Doing Business'' report shows that some African countries, particularly Tanzania, Ghana, Rwanda and Nigeria, are among the world leaders in reforming their economies. 
 And where African countries have had sustained good governance, economies have boomed. Examples include Botswana, Mozambique, Rwanda and Mauritius, which in turn are becoming models for neighbors.
 Partly as a result, Africa is enjoying an overall economic growth rate this year of 5 to 6 percent, twice that of the U.S. And Africa now has a huge opportunity to move up the ladder into low-wage manufacturing, because Chinese labor costs are rising and some labor-intensive production is being shipped to lower-wage countries. Chinese traders are now everywhere in Africa, although they haven't set up many factories so far.
 Senegal has snared a share of the French-language call-center industry, and a few countries, like Mauritius, Lesotho and Namibia, make garments, but manufacturers have generally shunned Africa because of concerns about infrastructure, political instability, corruption and ability to scale up production. If Africa plays its cards right, that could change.
 So, yes, Africa is still afflicted by AIDS, misery and the tyranny of ''big men'' whose sons squander national treasure on Lamborghinis. But leadership is improving, opportunities are appearing, and there's something new in the air: reform, and hope.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MURDER (90%); COUPS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CORRUPTION (87%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); WRITERS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (58%) 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (54%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (50%) Nicholas D Kristof; Casey Parks

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (95%); EQUATORIAL GUINEA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Africa; Equatorial Guinea; Africa

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2006



62 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: How to Fix the Global Economy

BYLINE: By Joseph E. Stiglitz. 
Joseph E. Stiglitz, a professor of economics at Columbia and the author, most recently, of ''Making Globalization Work,'' was awarded the Nobel in economic science in 2001.

 BODY:
THE International Monetary Fund meeting in Singapore last month came at a time of increasing worry about the sustainability of global financial imbalances: For how long can the global economy endure America's enormous trade deficits -- the United States borrows close to $3 billion a day -- or China's growing trade surplus of almost $500 million a day? 
 These imbalances simply can't go on forever. The good news is that there is a growing consensus to this effect. The bad news is that no country believes its policies are to blame. The United States points its finger at China's undervalued currency, while the rest of the world singles out the huge American fiscal and trade deficits. 
 To its credit, the International Monetary Fund has started to focus on this issue after 15 years of preoccupation with development and transition. Regrettably, however, the fund's approach has been to monitor every country's economic policies, a strategy that risks addressing symptoms without confronting the larger systemic problem. 
 Treating the symptoms could actually make matters worse, at least in the short run. Take, for instance, the question of China's undervalued exchange rate and the country's resulting surplus, which the United States Treasury suggests is at the core of the problem. Even if China strengthened its yuan relative to the dollar and eliminated its $114 billion a year trade surplus with the United States, and even if that immediately translated into a reduction in the American multilateral trade deficit, the United States would still be borrowing more than $2 billion a day: an improvement, but hardly a solution.
 Of course, it is even more likely that there would be no significant change in America's multilateral trade deficit at all. The United States would simply buy fewer textiles from China and more from Bangladesh, Cambodia and other developing countries.
 Meanwhile, because a stronger yuan would make imported American food cheaper in China, the poorest Chinese -- the farmers -- would see their incomes fall as domestic prices for agriculture dipped. China might choose to counter the depressing effect of America's huge agricultural subsidies by diverting money badly needed for industrial development into subsidies for its farmers. China's growth might accordingly be slowed, which would slow growth globally. 
 As it is, however, China knows well the terms of its hidden ''deal'' with the United States: China helps finance the American deficits by buying treasury bonds with the money it gets from its exports. If it doesn't, the dollar will weaken further, which will lower the value of China's dollar reserves (by the end of the year, these will exceed $1 trillion). Any country that might benefit from China's loss of export market share would put its money into a strong currency, like the euro, rather than the unstable and weakening dollar -- or it might choose to invest the money at home, rather than holding more reserves. In short, the United States would find it increasingly difficult to finance its deficits, and the world as a whole might face greater, not less, instability.
 Nothing significant can be done about these global imbalances unless the United States attacks its own problems. No one seriously proposes that businesses save money instead of investing in expanding production simply to correct the problem of the trade deficit; and while there may be sermons aplenty about why Americans should save more -- certainly more than the negative amount households saved last year -- no one in either political party has devised a fail-proof way of ensuring that they do so. The Bush tax cuts didn't do it. Expanded incentives for saving didn't do it.
 Indeed, most calculations show that these actually reduce national savings, since the cost to the government in lost revenue is greater than the increased household savings. The common wisdom is that there is but one alternative: reducing the government's deficit. 
 Imagine that the Bush administration suddenly got religion (at least, the religion of fiscal responsibility) and cut expenditures. Assume that raising taxes is unlikely for an administration that has been arguing for further tax cuts. The expenditure cuts by themselves would lead to a weakening of the American and global economy. The Federal Reserve might try to offset this by lowering interest rates, and this might protect the American economy -- by encouraging debt-ridden American households to try to take even more money out of their home-equity loans to pay for spending. But that would make America's future even more precarious. 
 There is one way out of this seeming impasse: expenditure cuts combined with an increase in taxes on upper-income Americans and a reduction in taxes on lower-income Americans. The expenditure cuts would, of course, by themselves reduce spending, but because poor individuals consume a larger fraction of their income than the rich, the ''switch'' in taxes would, by itself, increase spending. If appropriately designed, such a combination could simultaneously sustain the American economy and reduce the deficit. 
 Not surprisingly, these recommendations did not emerge from the International Monetary Fund meetings in Singapore. The United States retains a veto there, making it unlikely that the fund will recommend policies that aren't to the liking of the American administration.
 Underlying the current imbalances are fundamental structural problems with the global reserve system. John Maynard Keynes called attention to these problems three-quarters of a century ago. His ideas on how to reform the global monetary system, including creating a new reserve system based on a new international currency, can, with a little work, be adapted to today's economy. Until we attack the structural problems, the world is likely to continue to be plagued by imbalances that threaten the financial stability and economic well-being of us all.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Thomas Fuchs)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); EURO (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); BONDS (72%); MARKET SHARE (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%); EXCHANGE RATES (69%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (66%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (66%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%); AGRICULTURE (61%) 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%) International Monetary Fund

PERSON: Joseph E (Prof) Stiglitz; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); SINGAPORE (92%) China

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2006



63 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: Nasdaq Slides Again on a New Hint of Slowing Growth

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The Nasdaq composite index dragged down stocks for a second day as slowing growth among manufacturers heightened concern that the economic expansion was weakening.
 The Nasdaq slid 20.83 points, or 0.9 percent, to close at 2,237.60. A gain in industrial stocks limited the decline in the Dow average, which retreated 8.72 points, or 0.1 percent, to 11,670.35. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 4.53 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,331.32. Trading was light as some traders and investors observed Yom Kippur.
Lower crude prices and moderating inflation spurred a rally in the last quarter, pushing the S.& P. 500 to its best third quarter in nine years. While economic reports have suggested that the Fed has kept prices in check without slowing the economy too much, doubts about the pace of growth held stocks back yesterday. 
 The Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing index dropped to 52.9 last month, from 54.5 in August, signaling that a slowdown in housing may have spread to other areas of the economy..
 Qualcomm, which makes chips for mobile phones, fell $1.69, or 4.7 percent, to $34.66. Broadcom asked the United States International Trade Commission to bar imports of cellular phones that use technology from Qualcomm. The outcome may determine control of the market for so-called 3G, or third generation, wireless phones. Broadcom shares rose 51 cents, to $30.85.
 Apple Computer lost $2.12, to $74.86, after Richard Gardner, a Citigroup analyst, lowered his recommendation on the shares to hold from buy. He said the company might not release a video version of its iPod music player with a larger screen in time for the holiday shopping season.
 Wal-Mart declined 88 cents, to $48.44, after it said September sales in the United States rose about 1.8 percent at stores open at least a year. 
 The company had forecast an increase of 1 percent to 3 percent.
 Harrah's Entertainment soared $9.25, or 14 percent, to $75.68, for the biggest gain in the S.& P. 500. The company received an $81-a-share offer from the private equity firms Apollo Management and Texas Pacific Group. 
 The drug maker Myogen surged $16.36, to close at $51.44, after Gilead Sciences said it would buy the company for $2.5 billion, or $52.50 a share, to expand its offerings of drugs for heart and lung ailments. Gilead shares dropped $4.49, to $64.28.
 LCA-Vision, which operates laser surgery centers to correct vision, dropped $10.22, or 25 percent, to $31.09. 
 The company said it expected to earn $1.60 to $1.70 a share this year, down from an earlier forecast of at least $1.80 and less than the $1.89 expected by analysts in a survey by Thomson Financial.
 In its first day of trading as a stand-alone company, shares of Western Union rose 3.3 percent, to close at $19.76 a share. 
 The company, which provides electronic money transfers, was spun off from the First Data Corporation on Friday. 
 Crude oil for November delivery fell 3 percent, to $61.03 a barrel, yesterday, the biggest drop in almost two weeks.
 The benchmark 10-year United States Treasury note rose 7/32, to 1024/32 -- the first increase in five days, after the Institute for Supply Management reported that manufacturing slowed more than was forecast last month. 
 The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, fell to 4.60 percent, from 4.63 percent on Friday. 
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of three- and six-month Treasury bills: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price
3-Mo. Bills: 98.795
6-Mo. Bills:97.560

High Rate
3-Mo. Bills: 4.765
6-Mo. Bills: 4.825

Investment Rate
3-Mo. Bills: 4.890
6-Mo. Bills: 5.014

Low Rate
3-Mo. Bills: 4.745
6-Mo. Bills: 4.800

Median Rate
3-Mo. Bills: 4.750
6-Mo. Bills: 4.810

Total applied for
3-Mo. Bills: $43,598.639
6-Mo. Bills: $42,728,459

Accepted
3-Mo. Bills: $22,702,649
6-Mo. Bills: $21,441,168

Noncompetitive
3-Mo. Bills: $1,930,334
6-Mo. Bills: $1,733,616

Both issues are dated October 05, 2006. The three-month bills mature on January 04, 2007 and the six-month bills mature on April 05, 2007.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''3-Month Treasury Bills'' shows average discounted rate of 3-month treasury bills in percent at weekly auction from June to Sept. (Source by The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); 3G WIRELESS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); YOM KIPPUR (70%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (70%); PRIVATE EQUITY (70%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (64%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (63%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (63%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (62%); MEDICAL LASERS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (69%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (60%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); QUALCOMM INC (55%); BROADCOM CORP (55%); APOLLO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (52%); APOLLO ADVISORS LP (52%); CAESARS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (52%); TPG CAPITAL LP (52%); LCA-VISION INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (55%); BRCM (NASDAQ) (55%); APO (NYSE) (52%); CZR (NASDAQ) (52%); LCAV (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (52%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (52%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (52%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (52%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (52%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (52%); NAICS621498 ALL OTHER OUTPATIENT CARE CENTERS (51%); NAICS621111 OFFICES OF PHYSICIANS (EXCEPT MENTAL HEALTH SPECIALISTS) (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2006



64 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1900 words

HEADLINE: Telecom Deal By Singapore Roused Thais

BYLINE: By WAYNE ARNOLD

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, Oct. 2 

 BODY:
Among the many measures of a successful foreign investment, helping to set off a coup d'etat is definitely not one of them. 
 In hindsight, the $1.9 billion purchase of a controlling stake in Thailand's dominant telecommunications conglomerate early this year by a group led by the Singapore government's investment arm, Temasek Holdings, was less than ideal, analysts and people close to the deal say.
Buying the company, called Shin, provoked nationalist outrage in Thailand. Buying it from the family of a prime minister widely accused of corruption, moreover, touched off extensive street protests that culminated on Sept. 19 in the military ouster of Thaksin Shinawatra as the Thai leader.
 The coup has thrust Temasek into unusual focus. Created, owned and overseen by the government, it has embarked on an ambitious overseas investment campaign that exceeded $13 billion in its latest fiscal year. 
 And as Singapore struggles to stay ahead of big competitors like China and India, Temasek is helping this small city-state hedge its bets by investing in them. 
 ''It's an insurance policy,'' said Song Seng Wun, regional economist at CIMB-G.K. Goh, a brokerage firm in Singapore. ''Even if things, knock on wood, didn't turn out domestically, they'd still have a hand or fingers in many pies across the world.''
 But the fallout from the Thai investment has underlined the perils of investing abroad.
 ''I don't think anyone perceived there would be such political fallout from the deal,'' said Stephen Bennett, a lawyer with Hunton & Williams in Bangkok who advised Temasek on the purchase. ''They wouldn't have done it had they known this would happen.''
 On the contrary, Mr. Bennett said, political risk did not even figure into negotiations. ''It wasn't an open-discussion issue,'' he said.
 Now, Mr. Thaksin is in exile, Temasek has lost roughly $700 million and Thai officials, including those from the Ministry of Commerce, are investigating whether it was illegal. The company said executives were not available for interviews, but issued a statement saying: 
 ''Temasek remains a long-term investor in Thailand, and we believe that the long-term fundamentals of the country remain good. We have complied fully with the laws in our investments, and will continue to cooperate fully with the M.O.C. as we have always done.''
 Over all, Temasek's portfolio rose 24 percent in the year ended March 31, to a value of $81.2 billion. That made it one of the largest government-owned shareholders in the world, according to Thomson Financial. It is the largest single foreign investor in China's financial industries, and it has plans to move into advanced economies, too, like Europe, Japan and the United States.
 Temasek insists that its investments are purely profit-driven. But its appetite and ownership have created reservations within some other Asian countries that look at Singapore, their small but affluent neighbor, with a mixture of respect and resentment. While analysts say the company is not political, they also say its investments have a strategic purpose: to increase tiny Singapore's place in the global economy. 
 ''The more you invest in the region,'' said Garry Rodan, a professor at Murdoch University's Asia Research Center in Perth, Australia, ''the more capacity you have to influence decisions about where people invest.''
 To some extent, Temasek's frustrations mirror those of other state-owned enterprises venturing overseas, like the Chinese oil company Cnooc when it tried to buy Unocal. 
 But Temasek's push is part of a broader effort by Singapore to hitch itself to larger economic wagons. A port city with no natural resources, Singapore lured foreign manufacturers after independence in 1965 with low taxes and clean government. It also set up companies to build essential infrastructure and in 1974 established Temasek to oversee them. Temasek's stakes in those 40-odd companies now earn it an estimated $2.5 billion in annual dividends. Part of that flows to the government; the rest is invested elsewhere. 
 When the technology bubble burst in 2000, Singapore was thrown into recession, its worst since independence in 1965. Combined with the economic impact of the terrorist attacks of September 2001, Temasek's portfolio shrank by almost a fifth. 
 In mid-2002, it appointed a new executive director to overhaul the company, Ho Ching, a Stanford-educated engineer who worked her way up to run a military-related conglomerate, Singapore Technologies. Temasek's chairman, S. Dhanabalan, said at the time that he had to overcome initial hesitancy about hiring Ms. Ho from her husband, Deputy Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, son of Singapore's senior leader, Lee Kuan Yew. The younger Mr. Lee is now prime minister.
 Bankers credit Ms. Ho with imposing investment discipline and global expertise, partly by hiring outsiders. These days, 27 percent of Temasek's 250 employees are foreigners. Ms. Ho also introduced one of her personal preoccupations, the BlackBerry wireless e-mail device.
 Temasek was already gaining overseas exposure through its Singapore subsidiaries. Singapore Telecommunications, or SingTel, bought the Australian cellular operator Optus for $7 billion in 2001. Singapore Airlines owns 49 percent of Virgin Atlantic. And the port operator PSA International holds stakes in 20 ports in 11 countries, including 5 in China. 
 Economists say that investing abroad enables Temasek to diversify without increasing the government's dominance of the Singapore economy. Investing abroad also fits Singapore's strategy of building bridges overseas.
 Singapore has signed two-party trade agreements with the United States, Japan and six other countries.
 ''Being a small country in the middle of a volatile region, Singapore has always wanted to keep everybody engaged,'' said C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for International Economics in Washington. 
 Temasek's goal for its portfolio is a three-way split among Singapore, developing Asian countries and advanced economies. So far, though, it has been concentrating on gaining exposure to Asia's rapidly growing middle class, particularly through the region's banks. It has stakes now in banks in India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Pakistan, South Korea and Taiwan. 
 China is an even bigger target. In September 2005 Temasek paid $1.47 billion for a roughly 5 percent stake in the China Construction Bank; it also bought 5 percent of the Bank of China for $1.5 billion.
 In March, Temasek ventured to Europe, buying an 11.5 percent stake, valued at $4 billion, in the Standard Chartered Bank of Britain, which makes three-quarters of its profit in Asia.
 Temasek has refrained from selling strategic domestic assets, saying it would do so only when market conditions were right. It still owns 100 percent of PSA, most of SingTel and Singapore Airlines. Companies it controls account for almost 30 percent of the economy.
 Temasek says the government is not involved in its investment decisions. But its board is appointed by the finance ministry, which Prime Minister Lee leads, subject to approval by Singapore's president. Its chairman, Mr. Dhanabalan, is a former foreign minister. One of its two deputy chairmen is a permanent secretary in the finance ministry. 
 Envy of Singapore's affluence helps fuel suspicion of Temasek, analysts say. Singapore has become a haven for the fortunes of Asia's new rich -- and not all its neighbors are pleased with that.
 Many Indonesians, for example, resent Temasek for what they say is excessive control of Indonesia's cellular industry. ST Telemedia and SingTel control Indonesia's two leading operators. 
 ''It galvanizes the ill feeling the public has toward Singapore,'' an Indonesian legislator, Drajad H. Wibowo, said.
 The Indian government rejected ST Telemedia's bid last year for a stake in one of the country's cellular operators because SingTel already owned a stake in a larger rival. This year, India blocked Temasek from increasing its stake in the Icici Bank of Mumbai because the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation, which manages budget surpluses and foreign exchange reserves, already held 3 percent.
 Temasek has had better luck in the United States. ST Telemedia's purchase in 2003 of a majority stake in Global Crossing overcame opposition by the Pentagon after Singapore's prime minister at the time, Goh Chok Tong, wrote to Vice President Dick Cheney.
 Washington, though, seemed less sympathetic toward one of its recent partners in China. Last year, Temasek and Singapore Airlines took a 49 percent stake in a cargo airline with China Great Wall Industry, a satellite launching company that since 1991 has been repeatedly sanctioned by the United States in the export of missile parts to Iran. 
 This August, the Bush administration imposed sanctions on the new carrier, Great Wall Airlines, forbidding Boeing and other American companies to do business with it. Deprived of technical assistance or parts, the airline was grounded.
 Singapore Airlines said in a statement last week that Great Wall Airlines itself had done nothing wrong and that China Great Wall Industry no longer owns any of it.
 As for the investment in Shin in Thailand, analysts say that Temasek should have been more careful about getting involved. 
 Since becoming prime minister in Bangkok in 2001, Mr. Thaksin was repeatedly accused of using policies to benefit the company. Even as sale talks were under way, rallies against him were drawing tens of thousands of people. 
 After buying the 49.6 percent stake with a group of Thai investors, Temasek and its partners were obliged to offer to buy the rest, and ended up with a 96 percent stake. Temasek gained control over Shin, as well as Thailand's leading cellular operator, a satellite company and a local television broadcaster.
 What outraged Bangkok's middle class, in addition to the sale of vital communications to a foreign government, was that the deal was conducted so that the prime minister's family avoided paying any income tax on the sale.
 Korn Chatikavanij, deputy chief of Thailand's opposition Democrat Party, said, ''If he saw a loophole that allows someone to do a deal like this and not pay any tax, his duty is to close the loophole, not take advantage of it.'' 
 Hundreds of thousands of people took to the streets in Bangkok, with some burning posters of Singapore's prime minister, Mr. Lee, and Ms. Ho outside the Singapore Embassy.
 Investigations into the Shin purchase now center on whether Temasek relied on proxies to exceed Thailand's 49 percent foreign shareholding limit on telecommunications companies. Temasek denies that any of its Thai partners are proxies, saying that it controls only 44 percent of Shin and that Thais control the rest.
 If the Shin deal is found to be illegal, the buyers could face penalties and Shin's licenses could be revoked. The ministry could also force Temasek to dispose of shares or to void the sale.
 Many analysts predict that with Mr. Thaksin gone, the case will fizzle as Thailand's new leaders choose instead to preserve ties with an important investor. If they do not, Shin represents such a small part of Temasek's overall portfolio, said Anshukant Taneja, an analyst with Standard & Poor's in Singapore, that ''even if they were to write it off, it doesn't make any material impact on their profile.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Thais protested the sale to Temasek Holdings of much of the Shin telecommunications conglomerate at the Singapore Embassy in Bangkok. (Photo by Udo Weitz/Bloomberg News)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (90%); COUPS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); POLITICAL RISK INSURANCE (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); CORRUPTION (75%); POLITICS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); DIVESTITURES (72%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (60%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (55%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Politics and Government; Coups D'Etat and Attempted Coups D'Etat; Telephones and Telecommunications

COMPANY: THOMSON FINANCIAL (60%); HUNTON & WILLIAMS LLP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Shin Corp; Temasek Holdings

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (55%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: Thaksin Shinawatra; Wayne Arnold

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (92%) SINGAPORE (97%); THAILAND (95%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Thailand; Singapore

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2006



65 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Keep TV Appeal As Housing Reality Sets In

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
If ''Million Dollar Listing'' had a disclaimer at the beginning of each episode, it might read something like this: The scenes depicted in this television show were filmed at the height of an overheated real estate market. They are not reflective of current economic conditions.
 Consider the following scene from the program. A Hollywood real estate agent, Ray Schuldenfrei, implores his wife and business partner, Dia, to list a two-bedroom Hollywood Hills home for $949,000 -- about $25,000 higher than she thinks is fair. ''This is a crazy market right now. People aren't buying from here,'' he says, pointing to his head. He then taps his chest. ''They're buying from here.'' 
''Million Dollar Listing,'' which has its season finale tonight on Bravo, is one of several reality shows -- others include ''House Hunters'' on HGTV and ''Flip This House'' on A&E -- that base much of their drama on a frenetic pace of home-buying and selling. Yet these programs are being broadcast on television as the real estate boom they depict is a fading memory. Instead of the old adage ''location, location, location,'' a more appropriate maxim for these reality shows might be ''timing, timing, timing.''
 ''It was hot, hot, hot,'' Mrs. Schuldenfrei said last week, reflecting fondly on the Southern California boom days. ''All you had to do was put a sign up.'' 
 Mr. Schuldenfrei, in a rare moment of agreement with his wife, added: ''It was complete bliss.'' (In one episode, he was so confident about the market that he told a client to arbitrarily pick a number. ''Are you into numerology?'' he asked.)
 Without a white-hot market to drive the plot, the producers of ''Million Dollar Listing'' and other shows about real estate now have to rethink their formats. And a handful of real estate agents may start to wonder whether their careers as reality TV stars are over. 
 Lauren Zalaznick, Bravo's president, said she could see ''Million Dollar Listing'' working regardless of the pace of the housing market. ''One of the beauties of this show is that in a down market or in an up market, there's interesting stories to be told,'' Ms. Zalaznick said. ''Whatever the market forces literally dictate is what's going to appear on camera.''
 Bravo has not decided whether it will renew ''Million Dollar Listing'' for a second season, but ''we think there's a long life for it,'' she said.
 The show is among the network's most popular, drawing about a third more viewers than the Bravo's average audience in the 8 to 11 p.m. time slot, the network said.
 Bravo has only one real estate show to worry about. HGTV has an entire series. In May it kicked off a block of programming it called ''Property Buzz,'' which included no fewer than six programs about buying and selling homes, among them ''House Hunters.''
 ''People ask me all the time, aren't you worried now that you have all these shows about property?'' said Michael Dingley, HDTV's senior vice president for programming and content strategy. ''The answer is no.''
 ''House Hunters,'' which is seen weeknights, follows couples looking for a home. Nervous newlyweds fret about the price. Couples weigh the give-and-take of house shopping. Do they go for the one with the better schools or the one with the bigger yard? In every episode, it seems, a husband cracks a joke about whether the closet is big enough to accommodate his wife's shoes.
 At the end of the show, after the couple has toured three houses and the viewer is treated to some revealing financial information about what the buyers can and cannot afford, we find out which house they bought.
 Mr. Dingley said curiosity would compel people to watch the program.. 
 ''It's very voyeuristic,'' he said. ''It's like when people go to parties and open the medicine cabinet.''
 A&E is equally unmoved by the swings of the housing market. The network is pushing ahead with plans for a third season of ''Flip This House,'' which follows investors who buy homes, renovate them and try to flip them at a profit. New episodes broadcast on Sunday nights.
 The investors give a step-by-step narrative, from the purchase to the sweaty demolition, and then all the way to the bank. One investor regularly featured this season is Sam Leccima, an Atlanta businessman with a penchant for expensive cigars. He and his wife, Shani, supervise the business affairs while the construction crew, led by Lamont Martin, a wise-cracking handyman who is prone to randomly breaking into song, do the remodeling.
 In one episode, Mr. Leccima offered some advice for anyone looking to be a successful house flipper. ''Cat urine and feces: great signs of a place that's going to make you money,'' he declared, standing outside a dilapidated Atlanta home he bought for $92,000, spent $12,000 renovating and later sold for $144,000.
 With confidence that in this market could come only from a real estate investor whose business has the platform of a reality show to increase sales, Mr. Leccima said last week, ''Real estate works off a wonderful pendulum. As soon as it goes down, you can expect it will go back up.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Shannon McCleod, Michael Wegmann, Ray Schuldenfrei, Dia Schuldenfrei and Chase Campen are on ''Million Dollar Listing.'' (Photo by Vivian Zink/Bravo)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REALITY TELEVISION (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); CELEBRITIES (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); MOVIE FILMING (58%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%) Advertising and Marketing; Law and Legislation; Finances; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Account Changes; Television; Television; Television; Television; Housing; Television

COMPANY: HOME & GARDEN TELEVISION (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Bravo (Cable Channel); Bravo (Cable Channel); A&e Channel

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (56%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: Eric Pfanner; Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (57%) UNITED KINGDOM (59%); UNITED STATES (57%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2006



66 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 317 words

HEADLINE: Report Cites Factory Cuts In Slowdown Of Economy

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Manufacturing in the United States expanded less last month than forecast as factories cut payrolls and reduced inventories, contributing to a slowdown in the economy, according to a report released yesterday. A separate report showed that spending on home construction fell for the fifth consecutive month. 
 The Institute for Supply Management said yesterday that its manufacturing index dropped to 52.9, the lowest since May 2005. An index reading of more than 50 signals expansion.
The group's manufacturing employment index declined to 49.4, from 54 in August. The index of inventories fell to 46.4, from 50.2.
 Other components showed little change. The production index, a measure of work being performed, declined to 56.1, from 56.6 the month before. The supplier deliveries gauge, a measure of how long it takes companies to receive goods, fell to 54.1, from 55. The index of orders in backlog dropped to 46.5, the lowest since March 2003.
 The group's gauge of prices paid fell to 61 last month, the lowest since July 2005, from 73 in August. Crude oil futures contracts averaged about $64 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange in September, down from $73 the month before.
 The manufacturing institute surveys more than 400 companies in 20 industries including clothing, printing, transportation, furniture and plastics to compile its index.
 According to the construction report, from the Commerce Department, private residential construction spending fell 1.5 percent in August. More investment in office buildings, factories and hospitals allowed for a 0.3 percent increase in total construction spending during the month.
 While a weakening housing market will be a ''significant drag'' on growth this quarter, that weakness ''does not seem to be spreading to other sectors of the economy,'' Edward P. Lazear, chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, said last week.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Construction Spending''Total construction spending at a seasonally adjusted annual pace.Graph tracks total construction spending since 2005.Aug.: +0.3%July: -1.0June: Unch.(Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (79%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); FUTURES (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CHEMICALS & RUBBER MARKETS (72%); COMMODITIES TRADING (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (67%); ENERGY MARKETS (67%); OFFICE PROPERTY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%)

PERSON: ED LAZEAR (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2006



67 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

HOUSING COSTS GROW -- The burden of housing costs on people living in nearly every part of the country grew sharply between 2000 and 2005, according to new Census Bureau data being made public today. The numbers illustrate vividly the impact, often distributed unevenly, of the crushing combination of escalating real estate prices and largely stagnant incomes. [A1.] 


ASSESSING G.M.'S PROGRESS -- Is the turnaround at General Motors real? That is a crucial question that the G.M. board must consider when it meets today. G.M.'s biggest investor, Kirk Kerkorian, clearly disagrees with management's assertion that the turnaround is taking hold. [C1.]

STOCK EXCHANGE PLAN DELAYED -- The New York Stock Exchange has pushed back a plan that would prevent brokers from voting their clients' shares in board elections when the stockholders have given no voting instructions. Catherine R. Kinney, president of the exchange, above, said that the rule change was not dead but that it was being scheduled to go into effect in 2008. [C1.]

DATA FROM WRECKAGE FOUND -- Rescue workers found voice and data recorders in the wreckage of an airliner that crashed in the Amazon rainforest last week, killing all 155 people on board. Investigators continued questioning the American pilots of a business jet that Brazilian authorities say they believe collided with the larger aircraft in midair. [A10.]

HIT IN MIDAIR -- Joe Sharkey, columnist for The Times, describes what it was like to be inside the business jet that was hit and forced to make an emergency landing in Brazil. [A1.]

UNIFORM TEST AT WAL-MART -- Wal-Mart has begun testing a new look for its 1.3 million workers in the United States: khaki pants and a navy blue polo shirt, according to employees briefed on the plans. [C1.]

FALLOUT FROM THAI DEAL -- In hindsight, the $1.9 billion purchase of a controlling stake in Thailand's dominant telecommunications conglomerate early this year by a group led by the Singapore government's investment arm, Temasek Holdings, was less than ideal, analysts and people close to the deal say. [C1.]

HARRAH'S ATTRACTS OFFER -- Harrah's Entertainment, the largest casino operator in the world, said that Apollo Management and Texas Pacific Group had offered to acquire it for $15.05 billion in cash. [C3.]

BLOW TO ONLINE BETTING FIRMS -- Companies that operate Internet betting sites and payment systems lost billions of dollars in market value after the United States government moved to criminalize the processing of online wagers. [C3.]

ACTIONS OF EX-CONVERSE CHIEF -- After arriving in Namibia two months ago, Jacob Alexander, the former chief executive of Comverse Technology wanted in the United States on stock option fraud charges, transferred about $16 million to Namibia from Israel, bought a house and put his children into a local school, a Windhoek court was told. [C3.]

INDIA'S ECONOMIC ZONES -- India is using privately run special economic zones as a partial solution to the extreme weaknesses in India's infrastructure: narrow, pothole-filled roads; erratic supplies of electricity and other utility services; and inadequate communication links. But opposition to the zones is mounting from political parties, farmers' groups and economists. [C5.]

STOCKS FALL -- The Nasdaq composite index dragged down stocks as slowing growth among manufacturers heightened concern that the economic expansion is weakening. [C12.]

TOO MUCH ANIMATION -- Analysts and industry executives have long warned of a coming glut of computer-animated movies. Now that time has come. With so many movies for audiences to choose from, some are failing to meet expectations or are flopping outright. For example, This summer's ''The Wild,'' from Walt Disney, proved anything but for moviegoers, bringing in only $37 million at the domestic box office. [C1.]

NEW REAL ESTATE REALITY -- Without a white-hot market to drive the plot, the producers of ''Million Dollar Listing'' and other television shows about real estate now have to rethink their formats. [C9.]

CONCERN ON AD RULE -- When an advertiser's relationship with its agencies goes sour, a breakup is often the best course for everyone involved. But some people in London's marketing world are now concerned that a new regulation could threaten this easy-come, easy-go existence. [C9.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph: ''Disney Per share''Last Tuesday: $30.16Today: $30.53

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); GAMING (84%); REAL ESTATE (79%); HOME PRICES (79%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (79%); CENSUS (78%); FLIGHT RECORDERS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (75%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); AIRLINES (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (71%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (71%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (68%); RAIN FORESTS (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (66%); CASINOS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CAESARS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (63%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); APOLLO ADVISORS LP (52%); APOLLO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (51%); TPG CAPITAL LP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

TICKER: CZR (NASDAQ) (63%); GM (NYSE) (57%); APO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (63%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (63%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (63%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (63%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (52%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (51%)

PERSON: KIRK KERKORIAN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (92%); NAMIBIA (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); THAILAND (67%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2006



68 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 218 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
LUKENS, PJAY PHELPS

 BODY:
 LUKENS--Pjay Phelps passed away at home on October 1 following a private and courageous battle with cancer. Jay was the cherished husband of Susan for nearly 30 years and beloved father of Clinton, Ashley and Walker. Jay grew up in Minnesota and later moved to Florida where he was a Thomas Presidential Scholar at Eckerd College. Jay completed his Ph.D in Economics at Texas A&M University earning the Alfred Chalk award. Jay started his career with AT&T in Basking Ridge, but in1985 moved to Texas to work for Transco Energy. In 1997, Jay started Lukens Energy Group. Despite his successes however, Jay always remained modest and placed the greatest value on close friendships with his partners, co-workers, and many colleagues within the energy industry. Jay supported many benevolent causes and was a trustee on the Board of Eckerd College. The family is grateful to MD Anderson and the brillance of Dr. Chris Logothetis. In lieu of flowers, Jay wished that donations be made to Eckerd College, Grace School and the St. Francis Episcopal Day School Mission Honduras. Jay's funeral service will be held at Memorial Drive Presbyterian Church on October 5th, 1 p.m., and a viewing will be held at the Bradshaw-Carter Funeral Home from 5-8 on October 4th. Online tributes may be posted at www.bradshawcarter.com 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2006



69 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: $15 Billion Deal for Harrah's May Put Other Casinos Into Play

BYLINE: By PETER EDMONSTON and MICHAEL J. de la MERCED; Heather Timmons contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Their pockets bulging with cash, private equity firms have found a new business where they can place their multibillion-dollar bets: gambling. 
 Harrah's Entertainment, the largest casino operator in the world, said yesterday that Apollo Management and the Texas Pacific Group had offered to acquire it for $15.05 billion in cash, or $81 a share. The announcement ignited speculation that the United States gambling business, whose thicket of regulations has traditionally kept investment firms at bay, could attract more such proposals. Share prices of many casino companies surged.
Combined with Harrah's long-term debt of nearly $10.7 billion as of June 30, the proposal carried a value of $25.7 billion, which would make it the third biggest buyout in the United States this year, after deals for HCA and Kinder Morgan, according to Thomson Financial. 
 Shares of Harrah's, which operates casinos under the names of Harrah's, Caesars and Horseshoe in Las Vegas, Atlantic City and elsewhere, surged 14 percent, to $75.68.
 In a statement, Harrah's said it had formed a special committee of directors to evaluate the offer. The committee has hired UBS and the law firm of Kaye Scholer as advisers.
 The board of Harrah's made no recommendation on the buyout offer, and some analysts said a competing offer could emerge. 
 Jeffrey Logsdon, an equity analyst who covers the gambling business for BMO Capital Markets, noted that Aztar, the owner of the Tropicana hotels and casinos, was the subject of a heated bidding war before it agreed to be bought by Columbia Sussex for $2 billion this year. 
 Until several years ago, casino operators were generally considered off limits to buyout firms. That is because, with limited exceptions, Nevada regulations required every person holding equity in a private gambling company -- and those holding more than 10 percent of the voting securities of a publicly traded one -- to get a license to own or operate casinos. These licensing requirements would have forced not only members of private equity firms, but possibly those firms' investors, including pension funds, to go through the licensing process. 
 The red tape alone would have made such a deal impossible, casino lawyers say.
 In the late 1990's, however, the buyout firm Colony Capital established a new ownership structure that opened the door to private equity investment. In buying Harveys Casino Resorts, a publicly traded company, Colony caused Harveys to issue two classes of stock, one with voting rights and one with the economic interest but no voting rights. The two principals who controlled Colony owned the voting shares of Harveys, so they were the only individuals required to have a license. 
 Since then, several private equity investments using that structure, or variations of it, have won approval in Nevada, a vital jurisdiction in casino mergers and acquisitions, as well as other jurisdictions.
 But yesterday's proposal to acquire all of Harrah's is by far the largest and most ambitious private equity deal in the United States casino industry, said P. Gregory Giordano, a partner at Snell & Wilmer of Las Vegas and a chief of the corporate securities division of the Nevada State Gaming Control Board from 1989 to 1993.
 ''After hitting a few singles,'' Mr. Giordano said, private equity firms ''have decided to go for the home run.''
 The Wall Street Journal, which reported the offer for Harrah's yesterday, mentioned Colony as one firm involved in the discussions with Harrah's. But when Harrah's announced the proposal in the morning it did not mention Colony. Colony Capital declined to comment.
 Given that Colony paved the way back in 1999, why have most buyout firms held off on buying casino companies until now? 
 For one thing, such a deal still requires top members of the acquiring firm -- or firms -- to submit to the scrutiny of the gambling regulators. 
 ''These investigators will go and look at the contents of your home safe and your safety deposit box,'' Mr. Giordano said. If the licensing process hits a snag, some of the facts uncovered by investigators can be revealed at public hearings. ''It's very intrusive.''
 In the Harrah's transaction, the top principals of both Apollo and Texas Pacific will need to obtain licenses in the jurisdictions where the new entity runs casinos, said Frank A. Schreck of the Las Vegas law firm of Schreck Brignone, who developed the Colony structure and will be representing the two firms in the regulatory aspects of the deal. 
 What may have tipped the scales is simply the amount of money that private equity firms have to invest, and the attractiveness of the gambling business. 
 Buyout firms ''are looking for quality companies with stable cash flow,'' said John O'Neill, head of the private equity practice at Ernst & Young. Gambling companies are known for their hefty cash flows, which often hold up even in economic downturns. 
 And the United States gambling business also stands to benefit from a law passed over the weekend by Congress that would make it illegal to process payments for gambling done on Web sites.
 Private equity investors would normally be interested in online betting companies because of the healthy cash flows, a private equity banker in London said, but they have not touched the companies that do business in the United States because of the legal issues.
 The privately traded BetFair, an online gambling company based in London which says it does not do any business with gamblers in the United States, is backed in part by private equity money.
 Harrah's has struggled to catch up with its competitors in overseas expansion. It lost the contest to gain a gambling license in Singapore to the Las Vegas Sands, and its toeholds in Europe have been limited so far to Spain and Slovenia.
 If a deal is completed, it could limit Harrah's future growth, said Jake Balzer, a leisure and entertainment analyst with Guzman & Company, saying that a buyout could divert Harrah's cash to servicing its debt rather than fueling its expansion efforts in Europe and Asia.
 Rod Petrik, an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus, said that Harrah's solid cash flow and well-run operations made it a highly attractive takeover target.
 ''They're the McDonald's of the gaming industry,'' he said. ''It's a very well run company, so this isn't private equity coming and buying a company that's broken and then fixing it.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Two private equity companies have offered to buy Harrah's Entertainment, whose properties include a casino in New Orleans shown above. (Photo by Shannon Stapleton/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (93%); GAMING (91%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (88%); LICENSES & PERMITS (85%); MERGERS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); COMMON STOCK (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); RESORTS (73%); DIVESTITURES (73%); EQUITY RESEARCH (70%); APPROVALS (69%) Casinos; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: CAESARS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (92%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%); APOLLO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (58%); KAYE SCHOLER LLP (58%); APOLLO ADVISORS LP (58%); TPG CAPITAL LP (58%); KINDER MORGAN INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Apollo Management Lp; Texas Pacific Group; Harrah's Entertainment

TICKER: CZR (NASDAQ) (92%); APO (NYSE) (58%); KMI (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (92%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (92%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (58%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (56%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (56%)

PERSON: Peter Edmonston; Michael J De La Merced

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2006



70 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: In Governor's Race, Group Pushes to Make Lower-Priced Housing a State Issue

BYLINE: By JANNY SCOTT

 BODY:
During the New York City mayor's race in 2001, an unusually diverse coalition that included tenants, developers and bankers came together to urge the next mayor to tackle the increasingly pressing issue of housing. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg went on to do just that. Now that coalition, Housing First!, is trying to repeat its success with the next governor.
 Representatives of the coalition, which also includes church-based groups, labor organizations, housing advocates and organizations that work with the homeless, have taken their concerns to every gubernatorial candidate and state legislator. They say the high cost of housing is threatening the state's economic health, and they want a program of unprecedented size and scope to generate moderately priced housing.
As in the mayor's race, they have not shied away from big numbers. They want the next governor to commit $13 billion over 10 years to create and preserve 220,000 units of housing for low- to middle-income residents. According to the coalition, spending on state housing programs, many of them conceived during the 1980's, has remained flat ever since. When taking inflation into account, the financing has actually been reduced by 50 percent. 
 ''We wanted to create a plan like the city plan -- one that is doable and based on real numbers,'' said Ginny Shubert, a spokeswoman for Housing First!, one of a growing number of groups around the country focused on finding new capital for housing. ''We want to make this platform the benchmark, the way the Housing First! platform became the benchmark in the mayor's race.''
 While the Bloomberg administration has embraced much of what the group proposed in 2001, it remains to be seen whether Housing First! can be equally effective at the state level, where housing issues differ from region to region. The fact that one candidate in the governor's race, Eliot Spitzer, has a significant lead in the polls makes the task more difficult, preventing the coalition from playing candidates off against each other, the coalition said. 
 Mr. Spitzer, the Democratic nominee, and his staff members have met numerous times with the coalition, but he has declined to endorse specific figures on spending or units. Instead, he has said that he will work to increase moderately-priced housing through strategies like using available public land, working with the state comptroller to secure some pension fund money for housing and promoting zoning changes to favor higher-density development.
 John Faso, the Republican nominee for governor, has a different approach. He said he would try to cut the cost of construction by changing the workers' compensation system and vetoing legislation that ''is intended only to drive up construction and labor costs.'' 
 He said he would also consolidate the state's housing agencies and require that all applications for low-income housing tax credits be posted on the Internet to open the process to scrutiny. 
 Mr. Faso, who said he was aware of the coalition's platform, has not met with the group. Ms. Shubert said of the Faso campaign, ''They've not been responsive.''
 One issue that Housing First! does not address is rent regulation, a topic that is so divisive it is often described as a ''third-rail issue'' among people interested in housing issues. This year, groups focused primarily on tenants' issues, including those supporting the coalition's platform, have centered their own campaigns on strengthening rent regulations to slow the attrition of low-priced units.
 ''Housing First! is an unwieldy coalition,'' said Michael McKee, treasurer of the Tenants Political Action Committee, a group he said was devoted to helping Democrats win election to the State Senate. ''They can only agree on the lowest common denominator. The banks and the developers are not going to support the position of the community groups on an issue like rent regulation.''
 He added: ''Anything that is tenants' rights or regulation is off the table. They focus entirely on production.
 ''Certainly, increasing the supply of housing is important,'' said Mr. McKee, who says he supports the coalition's platform but believes it fails to address a large part of the affordability problem. ''But I believe that you can't solve the problem by just adding to the stock without dealing with the hemorrhage that we're seeing every day -- rent-regulated as well as subsidized housing, which we are losing in droves.''
 Both Mr. Spitzer and Mr. Faso oppose repealing the 1971 state law that bars New York City from adopting rent limitations and tenant protections more restrictive than those set by the state. But Mr. Spitzer has said that he will consider raising the $2,000-a-month rent level at which vacant apartments can be removed from rent regulation and to indexing that top rent to the cost of living.
 Housing First! was established in 2000, uniting people from institutions ranging from J. P. Morgan Chase and Fannie Mae to the Abyssinian Development Corporation and Acorn, the country's largest community group for low-income families. The aim was to make housing a top issue with the new mayor after a decade of rising housing costs. 
 Drawing on its members' expertise, the coalition wrote a platform centered around a demand for a $10 billion city program to create and preserve 180,000 units of low- and moderate-income housing. In late 2002, the Bloomberg administration unveiled its housing plan, which it expanded into a $7.5 billion program for 165,000 units, some 47,000 of which are being worked on, administration officials say.
 Coalition members said that the Bloomberg administration's approach -- including its use of the city's Housing Development Corporation, which issues bonds to finance low-cost mortgages for developers of lower-priced housing -- has helped the group shape aspects of the new platform. 
 Housing First! says the state budget already includes housing programs that provide about half of the $13 billion that it wants spent on housing. The group wants the state to increase its spending on five existing programs, a new state housing investment fund financed from existing tax surcharge money, and greater emphasis on low-income housing by the State Housing Finance Agency. 
 The coalition also wants the next governor to develop a strategy for encouraging owners of subsidized buildings to remain in public programs like Mitchell-Lama, rather than opt out and raise rents to market rates. 
 And it wants legislation introduced that will encourage towns to adopt policies that promote the development of lower-cost housing -- for example, inclusionary zoning, which allows developers to build at higher than usual densities in return for setting aside a portion of their projects for lower-income people.
 ''I think we can get the state to play a significant role and reclaim its place as an important player in affordable housing statewide,'' said Mark A. Willis, an executive vice president at J. P. Morgan Chase and co-chairman of the Housing First! coordinating committee.
 Both Mr. Spitzer and Mr. Faso have said they will streamline and consolidate the state's housing programs and revise the state's brownfield laws to make building easier. Mr. Spitzer has agreed with several other coalition proposals, including shifting the emphasis of the Housing Finance Agency onto lower-income housing, taking an inventory of state-owned land that might be used for building and reforming zoning.
 ''We're very cautiously optimistic with Spitzer,'' said Jumaane D. Williams, executive director of Tenants and Neighbors, a member of the coalition. ''He's said some good things, and it's a good start. But there's so much more that needs to be done.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ginny Shubert, above center, a spokeswoman for Housing First!, with other coalition members yesterday. At left, Michael McKee, standing, is treasurer of the Tenants Political Action Committee, an advocacy group. (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (93%); GOVERNORS (91%); MAYORS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VETO (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ZONING (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (75%); BUDGETS (74%); PENSION FUNDS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); TAX LAW (63%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (60%) Election Issues; Finances; Housing; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: Housing First] (Orgn)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (79%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%) Janny Scott; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; John J (Assemblyman) Faso

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2006



71 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1645 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Applying Its Sales Skills to Its Comeback Story 

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD and NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
Is the turnaround at General Motors for real?
 That is a crucial question the G.M. board must consider when it meets today. G.M.'s biggest investor, Kirk Kerkorian, clearly disagrees with management's assertion that the company is well on its way to recovery.
That is why Mr. Kerkorian -- through his adviser who now sits on G.M.'s board, Jerome B. York -- has pushed G.M. to discuss a possible alliance with Carlos Ghosn, who runs both Renault and Nissan. 
 Associates said Mr. Kerkorian was concerned that his idea for a broad alliance was being kicked under the rug by Rick Wagoner, G.M.'s chief executive, who sees it as a challenge to his authority. Mr. Kerkorian has signaled through his associates that he wants the board to consider authorizing an independent study of an alliance. Mr. Wagoner says that G.M., which lost $10.6 billion in 2005, and whose market share has dropped this year to its lowest level since the 1920's, has turned a corner.
 ''We're going in the right direction,'' Mr. Wagoner told journalists last week at the Paris Motor Show, according to Le Monde. ''Our financial structure has improved and our vehicles are being accepted, more and more.'' 
 Other G.M. executives, like the chief financial officer, Frederick Henderson, known as Fritz, and its vice chairman, Robert A. Lutz, made similar comments in Paris, arguing that G.M. had the potential to be an even stronger company than Renault and Nissan.
 Indeed, the crisis atmosphere that roiled G.M. at the beginning of the year has subsided -- in part because the skies have blackened over two rivals, DaimlerChrysler and Ford.
 But a range of measurements from companies like J. D. Power & Associates, Edmunds.com and Consumers Union show a mixed performance by G.M. during the last three years. 
 On the plus side, G.M. has been able to cut the rebates it offers buyers, the resale value of its cars has risen from last year and it can command more for its cars and trucks than the industry average. 
 But its market share has dropped the most of any car company. 
 Mr. Lutz said his company's market share did not adequately measure the success of its turnaround.
 "Whatever our market share stabilizes at in the U.S. -- 22, 23, 24 percent -- I don't really care," Mr. Lutz said in an interview on Monday. "The idea that G.M. somehow, to be successful, has to get back to 30 percent is a wacky notion with all of this global competition we've got."
 Mr. Lutz said G.M. officials were confident that they had addressed the company's biggest problems. 
 "It won't be solved until we're as profitable as Toyota, but at least we're on the upward slope again," he said.
 Among G.M.'s accomplishments, Mr. Lutz cited making regional operations run like one global company, converting to more efficient global vehicle architecture and shrinking capacity to better match demand. Much of the savings created by those actions has yet to be realized. 
 Mr. Lutz is particularly proud that G.M. has taken creative control over new vehicles away from marketers and returned it to designers. Although the company has many slow-selling models that are several years old, Mr. Lutz said, the response to new vehicles has been overwhelmingly positive.
 "All of the new stuff that's coming out is just a gigantic step in the right direction," he said. 
 Mr. Lutz said G.M.'s progress was genuine and not just a result of deteriorating performance at Ford and Chrysler. G.M.'s second-quarter operating profit, although overshadowed by a one-time charge related to its buyout program, is evidence, he said. "We're profitable and they're not," he said.
 Bond managers have also grown more fond of G.M. as the value of its debt increases and the company appears less likely to default.
 ''The fortunes of G.M. definitely look a lot better today than they did 10 or 12 months ago,'' said David Feinman, managing director of Havens Advisors, a hedge fund based in New York that owns bonds in both G.M. and its finance arm, G.M.A.C. ''There's a perception among bond managers that we've seen the worst that we're going to see in G.M.''
 Still, other indicators show G.M. lagging. Dealer inventories of G.M. cars turn over far more slowly than those of other automakers, and not a single G.M. brand is represented among the top 15 on Consumer Reports' most-recommended list.
 And G.M.'s longer-term accomplishments in many cases lag those of its strongest foreign competitors, like Toyota and even Nissan. 
 ''G.M. management has built a case that they've taken action to fix the company, but it has not made a strong enough case to support a turnaround,'' said John Casesa, a veteran industry analyst with the Casesa Shapiro Group. 
 ''You can't argue that this is an inflection point,'' he added. ''That's what Rick and Fritz would have you believe -- 'you can't see it, but it's there.' I'm not buying it.''
 Analysts said they had a hard time getting a clear read on G.M.'s financial results. The severe financial decline in 2005 has slowed: G.M., which lost more than $12 billion in North America last year, lost about $600 million there during the first half, once special charges were combed out. 
 G.M. declines to give guidance for near-term results, in part because it does not know when it will conclude union talks related to the bankruptcy at the Delphi Corporation, its biggest parts supplier and part of G.M. until 1999. 
 G.M. also does not know when it will close its deal to sell 51 percent of G.M.A.C. The deal, with an alliance headed by the Cerberus Group, was supposed to be completed by year-end but now may not be concluded until early 2007.
 ''We have, within our company, a very clear direction of where we want to go,'' Mr. Henderson, the chief financial officer, said. At this point, offering guidance ''would be irrelevant,'' he said. G.M. will ''look at it at the end of the year'' to see whether it can offer any direction, he said.
 That lack of guidance infuriates executives at Nissan, who say they believe they have been unfairly criticized because their operating margins fell to 8 percent in 2005, from 11 percent in 2004. (Margins at Renault, which does not sell cars in the United States, are even tinier, falling to 1 percent, from about 3 percent, in the same period.)
 Such criticism overlooks the fact that Nissan has essentially wiped out its automotive debt and is selling a million more cars worldwide than it sold in 1999, when Renault paid $5.6 billion for a 36 percent stake, now worth four times as much.
 ''This is the result of seven years of work,'' Mr. Ghosn said in Paris last week. Given the slim margins and deep losses at many car companies, most would be thrilled with an 8 percent operating margin, Mr. Ghosn and other Renault executives said.
 Lacking clear financial data on G.M., many analysts look at what they can measure, primarily its market share. It has declined 3.7 percentage points in the last two years, to 24.7 percent through September. The losses are centered at Pontiac, Buick and GMC, while other brands like Chevrolet, Hummer and Cadillac have actually gained share this year, according to the Power Information Network.
 Meanwhile, despite strides made on quality, G.M. brands lag well behind their Asian and some German counterparts on Consumer Reports' most-recommended list. Its highest-ranking brand is Pontiac, at No. 17. 
 But G.M. is not alone: neither of Nissan's two brands ranks higher than No. 26. By contrast, all three of Toyota's brands -- Toyota, Lexus and Scion -- are in the top 10 on the magazine's list.
 G.M., stung when its sales plummeted after 2005's phenomenally successful employee discounts, has taken steps all year to reduce incentives. The campaign began in January when G.M. cut prices on the majority of its vehicles. 
 Over the last two years, its rebates and other deals have dropped from $3,941 a vehicle to $3,118, according to Edmunds.com. Likewise, the percentage of vehicles carrying cash rebates has dropped to 69.1 percent, from 87.3 percent.
 Because of that, the resale value of G.M.'s vehicles has climbed this year, but it is still not back to the level of 2004, Edmunds's numbers show. 
 That may be a reason G.M. vehicles take longer to sell than the industry average. 
 Those sold in September had been on lots for 86 days, compared with an industrywide average of 69 days. G.M. cars are moving faster than they did two years ago, Edmunds's numbers showed, but they take much longer to sell than Toyota cars.
 The consolation to G.M. is that its performance on all these fronts is better than at its Detroit counterparts, Ford and Chrysler, which have stepped up their own turnaround efforts in the midst of their financial crises.
 Nissan officials, however, have argued that they, and G.M., should be worried more about Toyota. 
 Regardless, G.M. does have the upper hand in one sense. It, not Renault and Nissan, will decide whether to participate in an alliance, a prospect that remains dim despite Mr. Kerkorian's efforts to put pressure on G.M. 
 Last week, he said he planned to buy as many as 12 million more G.M. shares. In theory, that would give Mr. Kerkorian more clout, but he and the rest of the automobile world are learning just how determined Mr. Wagoner and his team can be in charting their own course.
 Mr. Ghosn admitted as much last week, saying he would have not chosen this particular time to approach G.M. about a deal. Indeed, had Mr. Kerkorian prodded the two sides last year, when G.M. was skidding and Nissan and Renault were still on the ascent, the outcome might have been much different, analysts said.
 Instead, Mr. Wagoner has had just enough time to steer G.M. back onto the road. But simply entering traffic does not complete a journey, Mr. Casesa said.
 ''This year is trending better than last year's disaster, but last year was a disaster,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Faster Sales, but a Smaller Share''G.M., in struggling to keep its market share from falling further, has cut the time that its vehicles sit on dealer lots.Graph tracks G.M.'s market share since 1980.Graph tracks number of days to sell a vehicle for the following car companies:DaimlerChryslerFordG.M.NissanHondaToyota(Source by Ward's AutoInfoBank
 Power Information Network)(pg. C12)GraphGraph tracks G.M.'s total net sales since 2001.(Source by Company reports)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); MARKET SHARE (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); WRITERS (66%) Automobiles; Boards of Directors; Automobiles; Sales; Rebates ; Automobiles

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp; Renault Sa; Nissan Motor Co; Power, J D, & Associates; Edmunds.com ; Consumers Union ; Ford Motor Co; Daimlerchrysler Ag

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

PERSON: KIRK KERKORIAN (91%); RICK WAGONER (90%); FREDERICK HENDERSON (79%); CARLOS GHOSN (70%) Kirk Kerkorian; Jerome B York; Carlos Ghosn; Rick Wagoner; Robert A Lutz; Micheline Maynard; Nick Bunkley

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2006



72 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Terror Attacks Often Covered By Insurance, A Report Says 

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

 BODY:
Insurance coverage for a terrorist attack like the one in New York on 9/11 has expanded significantly in the last five years as a result of a government program that pays for the bulk of the damage, a Bush administration report said yesterday. 
 But the report said there was virtually no coverage available for most of the damage that would come from a nuclear attack or one carried out with chemical or biological weapons. 
The report, issued in Washington by the Treasury Department on behalf of the President's Working Group on Financial Markets, said that 58 percent of American companies now had terrorism coverage, up from 27 percent in 2003 and almost none immediately after the 9/11 attacks. The cost of coverage, the report said, has also dropped sharply. 
 Under the program, created by Congress in 2002, the government would now pay most of the cost of losses from an attack, up to $100 billion. The insurers would be required to pay the first $25 billion from a nonnuclear attack or attacks in 2006 and 10 percent of additional losses up to $100 billion. That is up from $5 billion and 10 percent of additional losses when the program began. 
 Insurers are required to provide coverage for most terrorist attacks. They are not required to provide coverage for nuclear and biological attacks, except for policies covering injury or death to workers, and for fires that occur after an attack. They say the potential for loss from a nuclear attack is unfathomable. 
 The report, which had been ordered by Congress when it renewed the program in 2005, did not draw any formal conclusions and not did indicate whether the Bush administration favored extending the program or permitting it to expire at the end of 2007. That was in contrast to a Treasury Department report in June 2005 that led to a sharp increase in the share to be paid by insurers in 2006. The amount has been rising since the program began. 
 In a letter to Congress, Henry M. Paulson Jr., the secretary of the Treasury and chairman of the President's Working Group, said that the industry was in ''a better position now'' than immediately after the World Trade Center attacks to provide terrorism insurance. 
 The program was aimed at stabilizing the private insurance market for terrorism coverage, and Mr. Paulson said it had been successful. 
 After the World Trade Center attack, all but a handful of insurers refused to sell coverage for terrorist attacks. Those willing to provide coverage sold limited amounts at extremely high prices. 
 Mr. Paulson noted that the government program was not intended to be permanent, but he did not suggest, as the insurance industry had feared, that the program be ended.
 The report ''is not as harsh or ideological as we thought it might be,'' said Joel Wood, a lobbyist for the Council of Insurance Agents and Brokers.
 Robert P. Hartwig, the chief economist of the Insurance Information Institute, said the industry was still unable to go it alone without government backing.
 ''Too much about an attack remains uncertain,'' Mr. Hartwig said. ''And that makes the long-term involvement of the government in terrorism insurance absolutely essential.''
 On the issue of a nuclear or chemical attack, the report said that because of the enormous scale of possible loss, there was ''little potential for future market development'' by private insurers. No insurance structure or process exists for dealing with most nuclear or chemical attacks, government officials and industry experts said. The insurers say damage in a nuclear attack could be hundreds of billions of dollars. 
 State regulators require insurers to provide coverage in any circumstances -- including a nuclear attack -- for policies covering personal injury or worker deaths, and for fires that occur after an attack. By some estimates, that represents about 25 percent to 30 percent of the coverage the insurers provide.That is why the insurers say they must have government backing. The cost of covering just a portion of the possible losses from a terrorist attack, they say, could bankrupt them. 
 The insurers and the government say there is no plan providing a structure or process to pay for the bulk of possible losses from a nuclear or chemical attack. 
 The insurers refuse to provide the coverage. ''The government has to step in to provide this coverage,'' said Leigh Ann Pusey, the chief operating officer of the American Insurance Association in Washington. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (92%); INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (90%); WAR RISKS & TERRORISM INSURANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (79%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (79%); INSURANCE POLICIES (79%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%) Terrorism; Insurance; Biological and Chemical Warfare

ORGANIZATION: Treasury Department

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (77%) Joseph B Treaster

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2006



73 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Online-Gambling Shares Plunge on Passage of U.S. Crackdown Law 

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: LONDON, Oct. 2 

 BODY:
On a Black Monday for the online-gambling industry, companies that operate Internet betting sites and payment systems lost billions of dollars in market value after the United States government moved to criminalize the processing of online wagers.
 Congress passed legislation over the weekend that would make it a crime to use credit cards or online payment systems for Internet betting. As a result, several online-gambling companies said Monday that they planned to stop doing business with customers in the United States -- by far the largest market for Internet gambling.
 Analysts said the measure would effectively bar online-gambling companies from operating legally in the United States, fundamentally altering their business models and perhaps forcing some companies out of business. Shares of many of the companies plunged, with some losing more than half of their value within minutes Monday morning. 
 ''This development is a significant setback for our company, our shareholders, our players and our industry,'' said Mitch Garber, chief executive of PartyGaming, the largest online-gambling company.
 On Monday, shares of PartyGaming, which is based in Gibraltar, fell 58 percent, erasing about $:2 billion ($3.8 billion) of the company's market capitalization.
 Over the last few years, Internet gambling operators, many of them based outside Britain, rushed to list their shares on the London Stock Exchange, taking advantage of a change in British law that legalized and regulated the business.
 PartyGaming, which generates 78 percent of its revenue in the United States, said it would suspend all ''real money'' transactions with United States-based customers if President Bush signs the bill into law, as is expected within the next two weeks.
 Another publicly traded online-gambling operator, 888 Holdings, said it would also stop doing business with bettors in the United States, pending Mr. Bush's signature. The company, also based in Gibraltar, generates nearly half of its business outside the United States. Its shares fell 26 percent on Monday.
 The legislation, championed by Representative Jim Leach, Republican of Iowa, was added to an unrelated bill on port security and passed in the rush to complete business before a Congressional recess in advance of the Nov. 7 elections.
 ''There is nothing in Internet gambling that adds to the G.D.P. or makes America more competitive in the world,'' Mr. Leach said. ''Everyone loses if this industry continues its remarkable growth trends.'' 
 Concern about regulatory and legal risks grew over the summer, as executives of two online-gambling companies were arrested while in the United States.
 David Carruthers, who was later removed from his position as chief executive of BetOnSports, pleaded not guilty to charges of racketeering, fraud, tax evasion and conspiracy after his arrest in Dallas in July.
 Peter Dicks, who stepped down as chairman of Sportingbet, was released from custody Friday after Gov. George E. Pataki of New York refused to endorse a request for extradition to Louisiana.
 Online operators said details of how the new legislation would be enforced remained unclear; the bill would require the Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve System to put in place procedures to bar transactions with online gambling sites within 270 days. Many American banks, credit card issuers and online payment systems, under pressure from the government, already block such transactions.
 Online operators based in Britain complain that Washington has been inconsistent in its opposition to online gambling, allowing horse racing operators and state lottery systems to run Internet operations, for instance. In a case pitting Antigua against the United States, the World Trade Organization has already ruled that such exceptions were inconsistent with global trade rules.
 Sportingbet said Monday that it was examining whether to seek W.T.O. action over the Leach bill if it is signed into law. 
 As the United States puts up more barriers, online gambling companies have been emphasizing growth in other markets. 888 Holdings said 68 percent of new customers who registered on its sites in the first half of the year were from outside the United States, 56 percent more than a year earlier. PartyGaming says it now has as many players outside the United States as it had in America in 2004.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mitch Garber is chief executive of PartyGaming, the largest online-gambling company. (Photo by Munshi Ahmed/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (94%); DECRIMINALIZATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); TAX FRAUD (78%); ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); SECURE ONLINE TRANSACTIONS (78%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); ARRESTS (77%); TRENDS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TAX LAW (72%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (71%) Gambling; Casinos; Computers and the Internet; Law and Legislation

ORGANIZATION: Partygaming (Co)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%) Mitch Garber; Eric Pfanner

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GIBRALTAR (87%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2006



74 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Not Afraid Of Natural Gas; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1817 words

HEADLINE: Neither Prices Nor Storms Deter Gulf Terminal Projects

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: CAMERON PARISH, La. 

 BODY:
The Sabine River channel, where alligators and speckled trout live alongside petrochemical plants and oil refineries, has suddenly become the center of a quiet revolution in the world of natural gas.
 And it is mainly at the prodding of a little-known company called Cheniere Energy, with help from Exxon Mobil and Sempra Energy. Together they have overcome formidable regulatory hurdles to build three new liquefied natural gas terminals on the channel that will double the nation's capacity to import natural gas by 2011.
It has been 24 years since anyone on American shores has built a new liquefied natural gas terminal. Two of the country's four existing onshore terminals, which dock tankers the size of aircraft carriers ferrying supercooled gas from places like Qatar and Trinidad, were mothballed for years because production at home was plentiful and prices were low.
 As recently as five years ago almost nobody in the energy world thought it possible to make money from a new American terminal project -- with price tags that start at $600 million -- let alone get a federal permit. 
 One lonely believer was Charif Souki, a Lebanese immigrant entrepreneur who had previously raised money for real estate in Paris and hotels in Hawaii before becoming chairman of Cheniere, a floundering gas exploration company. Not even the 9/11 attacks, which made many people on the Atlantic and Pacific Coasts view liquefied natural gas terminals as potential terrorist targets, diverted him from his vision.
 Now, even as natural gas prices sag, along with his company's stock price, and the word glut is on the tip of the tongue among the drilling crowd, Mr. Souki says he is fixed on the longer view. 
 He is convinced the nation will need to import more gas because North American production is declining. That is the same view Mr. Souki held six years ago, when he decided to shake up the company's business plan. He defiantly changed its stock symbol to LNG in 2003, and devoted himself to scoping out the country's coastlines for potential terminal sites.
 The already energy-intensive shoreline along the Gulf of Mexico, he concluded, made the most sense, economically and politically, and he started buying real estate in uninhabited harbors close to existing pipelines and gas-thirsty refineries and petrochemical plants.
 ''People were actually amused that we would be thinking about importing natural gas,'' dryly giggled Mr. Souki, 53, a man with a taste for double-breasted suits. ''Nobody took us very seriously.''
 Cheniere was so unprofitable and utterly spurned by investors in 2002 that Mr. Souki had to borrow $30,000 from his company's president just to meet a payroll. But over the last four years, Mr. Souki has managed to arrange financing, sign up long-term buyers and master the regulatory process. 
 Two of the four terminals he has permits for are under construction: one in Freeport, Tex., which Cheniere partly owns, and a second here in Sabine Pass, which it owns outright. 
 When completed, 6 huge storage tanks, 24 vaporizer modules and docking operations big enough to handle 400 cargo ships a year will help the Sabine Pass terminal process more gas than any existing terminal in the United States. 
 That could amount to four billion cubic feet of gas a day -- or more than 5 percent of what Americans now consume. The company has not made any money yet, but its stock price soared from less than $1 a share when Mr. Souki started his liquefied natural gas strategy at the beginning of the decade to more than $40 this spring, including a split. The stock has been dropping lately, though, and hit a 52-week low yesterday. It closed at $25.59, a decline of $2.30, or 8.25 percent. 
 Cheniere hopes to build two more terminals along the gulf to gain more fees from big companies but also to sell spot cargo and short-term contracts for higher profit. Those terminals may be in doubt or at least delayed because suddenly and quite unexpectedly there may be too many terminals coming online to meet demand for imported gas in the next few years.
 Ever since natural gas prices spiked from 2001 to 2005, Cheniere has been joined by many others in the buildup. Even as prices of natural gas futures have fallen this summer to four-year lows, companies are spending up to $9 billion on building new terminals or upgrading old ones, with the nexus of activity decidedly along Texas and Louisiana shores. 
 More than a dozen new liquefied natural gas terminal projects have been approved by the federal government in the last four years, all but one in the gulf region. Within a few years, there could be six terminals within 30 miles of the Sabine River alone. 
 ''The gulf is where the United States consumes 25 percent of its natural gas,'' Mr. Souki said in an interview in his undecorated Houston office where charts of monthly world natural gas trends are taped on the wall. ''The gulf is also the only coastal area that is connected by pipeline to the Midwest.'' 
 Liquefied natural gas represents only a 3 percent share of total American natural gas consumption, which is mostly used for industrial purposes and home heating. Cambridge Energy Research Associates estimates that imported liquefied natural gas will account for 10 percent of American use by 2010, and potentially as much as 25 percent by 2020.
 The steps to import liquefied natural gas into the United States are taking off at a time when some big multinational oil companies have shrinking reserves of oil but rising reserves of gas around the world. Such companies often want the gas to fuel their own petrochemical plants and refineries -- many in the gulf region. 
 ''L.N.G. is going to have a growing importance,'' predicted Donald E. Felsinger, chairman of Sempra Energy, another early embracer of liquefied natural gas. ''The gas that we find here in North America is getting more and more expensive to produce. And because there is so much stranded gas around the world, L.N.G. can be shipped here and compete very effectively with traditional supplies.''
 Sempra has millions of electricity customers in California. But because of local resistance, Mr. Felsinger said, ''we thought we could never in a reasonable time frame get a facility sited along California's coast.'' So Sempra has looked to Louisiana and Texas for sites for new terminals, areas where an extensive natural gas infrastructure already exists to process and ship gas from wells offshore. It is also building a terminal in Baja California, Mexico.
 But while most experts agree that importing natural gas satisfies a growing demand for cleaner energy sources, some are skeptical about how wise it is to put one more major component of the country's energy grid around the stormy waters of the gulf. 
 ''The concern is for the potential for supply interruptions,'' said Robert Ineson, director for North American natural gas at Cambridge Energy Research Associates, noting that a major storm like Hurricane Katrina or Rita could move a seabed or sink a ship that would block the way into a liquefied natural gas terminal.
 The terminals themselves are highly durable and most pipelines onshore are underground, he said, but the control operations above ground are vulnerable when storms hit. Moreover, skilled workers would have to navigate washed-out roads and other obstacles to reach damaged areas and make repairs. 
 Industry insiders largely dismiss the threat, noting that Hurricane Rita last year directly hit an existing liquefied natural gas terminal in Lake Charles, La., which was largely unscathed. They say the growing number of terminals in the coming years will increase storage supplies to help minimize disruptions.
 There are few alternatives to building in the gulf. Several sites on the East and West Coasts are on energy company wish lists. But a variety of groups and coalitions opposed to liquefied natural gas have formed to stop them. 
 Opponents argue that liquefied natural gas terminals are prone to accident or terrorist attack, they produce air pollution, they damage ocean ecosystems and they harm indigenous peoples in countries that pump the gas in the first place. 
 Defenders dismiss the arguments as narrow-minded. ''Nimby people have made their choice,'' said Byron S. Wright, vice president for corporate development at the El Paso Corporation, using the acronym for ''Not in my backyard.'' ''But the people on the Gulf Coast view energy infrastructure differently.''
 Indeed, for Carrol Trahan, 61, the owner of the Bayou Convenience Store in nearby Johnson Bayou, the fact that six liquefied natural gas docking terminals are being constructed or are on the drawing boards near his home is no big deal.
 ''People around here are used to the energy business and we need the jobs, the tax base,'' he said at his roadside store that stocks Cajun pickled quail eggs, Confederate flag necklaces and refrigerator magnets displaying ''the Louisiana state bird'' -- the mosquito.
 ''When you can be wiped out at any time by a storm,'' he sighed, ''you can only live worrying so much.'' 
 There is hardly a dissenting word in this coastal region of trailer parks, mangled sheds from last year's hurricanes and lonely roads built on top of canals that separate one swamp from another and gas rigs from streams full of crabs.
 When the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission held a public hearing in September 2004, a hundred people showed up. They voted unanimously in favor of the Sabine Pass, La., terminal.
 Only one man, a charter fishing captain named Jerry Norris, stood up to express a few words of skepticism and worry that dredging for the Cheniere project would disturb the local fishery. Concerned about any opposition, Cheniere employees went on his charter boat with him to address his concerns. Now he is a fan.
 ''People around here are grounded in the refinery business,'' Mr. Norris said. ''We're not going to stop what we're doing because of terrorists around here. That's just not going to happen.'' 
 Liquefied natural gas executives say their terminals are as safe or safer than other energy plants. They explain that natural gas in liquid form is not particularly explosive or flammable. 
 But even in the gulf region, liquefied natural gas is not a business free of risk. The biggest fear is the chance that natural gas prices could collapse from excess supplies.
 Within the industry, some also worry that too many liquefied natural gas terminals will be built, cutting into operating profits.
 ''There's not going to be enough gas imported into this country to fill them all up,'' Mr. Wright, the El Paso vice president, warned.
 Mr. Souki, though, has exactly the opposite concern. ''At the moment we are setting ourselves up for a very nasty surprise,'' he said. ''I don't know if it will happen in a year or two or five, but one winter we are not going to have enough gas.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Above and right, a liquid natural gas terminal being built in Louisiana for Cheniere Energy. Plans call for it to be able to serve 400 ships a year. (Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
Last year Hurricane Rita wiped out the area around Holly Beach in southwest Louisiana where several liquefied natural gas plants exist or are planned.
 Carrol Trahan, the owner of a convenience store, says having six liquefied natural gas docking terminals either being constructed or being planned near his home is no big deal. (Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Map of Louisiana highlighting Sabine Pass: The Sabine River channel is home to liquefied natural gas terminals. (pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (92%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (91%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); RIVERS (90%); OIL & GAS STORAGE FACILITIES (90%); LNG TERMINAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (89%); PETROCHEMICALS (89%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (89%); MARINE TANKERS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); CHEMICAL PLANT SECURITY (78%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (77%); HARBORS & PORTS (76%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (76%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (73%); BUSINESS PLANS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); IMMIGRATION (66%); TERRORISM (65%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (65%); LICENSES & PERMITS (52%); SECURITIES IDENTIFICATION CHANGES (50%) Gas (Fuel); Liquefied Natural Gas; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Gas (Fuel); International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: CHENIERE ENERGY INC (58%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); SEMPRA ENERGY (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Cheniere Lng; Exxon Mobil; Sempra Energy

TICKER: LNG (NYSE MKT) (58%); XOM (NYSE) (58%); SRE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (58%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: Charif Souki; Clifford Krauss

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Sabine River; Gulf of Mexico; Freeport (Tex); Sabine Pass (La)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006



75 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: Space to Spare, in New York 

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
The housing boom of the last decade has clearly benefited New York's self-storage industry.
 At the end of last year, the city was home to 292 self-storage facilities, according to the Self Storage Association, a national trade group based in Alexandria, Va. In 1995, there were just 65, according to statistics provided to the association by Pac-Comm of Tysons Corner, Va.
In addition, Westchester County, Long Island and northern New Jersey have hundreds more, according to the association. 
 In New York, the facilities have proliferated in step with the construction of luxury condos, high-rise rental apartments and multifamily homes. As a general rule, the more that people relocate from one home to another, the more they need temporary space for furniture, books, winter parkas and kayaks, company officials and analysts say. 
 Yet, analysts say the market may now be overbuilt after years of explosive growth. Nationally, ''there's about 5.5 square feet per capita of storage space today, and a decade ago, it was half that,'' said Michael Knott, an analyst with Green Street Advisors, based in Newport Beach, Calif. The trend in New York is comparable. ''I doubt you will see the growth in the next 10 years that you saw in the last 10,'' he added.
 Some owners of self-storage businesses are sounding cautious, even as their newest buildings open.
 ''We're being really careful,'' said Steven Novenstein, a partner at Storage Deluxe, a Manhattan-based company that owns 13 storage buildings with signature orange-and-blue striping in the New York City region, with 1.36 million square feet of space.
 Almost half of the company's buildings opened this year, and five others, with 445,000 square feet, are to open by next summer. Beyond that, however, there are no firm plans for new buildings. 
 Storage Deluxe and its competitors are also focused on keeping occupancy high in their existing buildings. To do so, they are offering increasingly generous concessions.
 Starting a year and a half ago, renters at Storage Deluxe have received a free first month on leases covering at least two months, for spaces that in New York range from $19 a month for a locker to $500 a month for a 300-square-foot room.
 Similarly, a year ago, American Self-Storage, which owns eight buildings in New York, began offering first month's rent of $1 for three-month leases on spaces that range from $29 a month for a locker to $2,500 a month for a 300-square-foot space. 
 In a sign, perhaps, of the easing demand for storage, American Self-Storage has not purchased a building since 2003, when it bought a former ice cream plant at 99 West 141st Street, between Fifth and Lenox Avenues.
 Last year the company closed its site at 500 10th Avenue, between West 37th and 38th Streets, and began leasing the eight-story 240,000-square-foot building to DHL, the package delivery service. Jack Guttman, a managing partner at the company, said he now got more than twice the revenue per square foot for the building.
 To keep his other spaces fully leased, he said, he is focused on adding features, like a receiving-shipping center and offices, at his existing buildings. ''There are more competitors out there, but the demand is so strong it hasn't affected occupancy levels,'' which he puts at 90 percent, Mr. Guttman said. ''The future is extremely strong for this business.''
 Indeed, the industry nationwide has shown that it can be somewhat recession-proof, according to Mr. Knott of Green Street Advisors. 
 Homeowners, who make up 60 percent of the users of storage space, still need places to stash belongings even if they are forced to downsize, people in the industry said. The other 40 percent of users are typically small businesses or individuals who lease space for commercial reasons, like pharmaceutical salesmen who need to store medications or online merchants who might need to sock away baseball cards.
 Like most other real estate ventures, self-storage puts a high value on the location of buildings. They usually end up just outside densely settled residential neighborhoods, where land and building costs are typically cheaper but the buildings are not so far away that they are hard to reach.
 Former manufacturing areas near waterfronts have been particular hot spots in New York in the last few years; since the sites could not support most types of commercial or residential development, land costs are comparatively low.
 Sites near busy intersections or next to major highways are also popular. These locations are visible from commuter trains and passing cars, and the buildings, with their large signs and hard-to-miss colors, become virtual billboards. Some companies have also put storage buildings in high-traffic retail areas in Brooklyn and Queens.
 Mr. Knott said self-storage business owners face distinctive challenges as landlords. For one thing, turnover of tenants is relatively high; nationally, leases average about a year. Keeping buildings filled requires a large investment in advertising and customer service. 
 In New York, the industry is also beginning to experience pressure from developers who are suddenly eyeing urban tracts that were once written off.
 Tuck-It-Away, one of the oldest operators in the city, owns 14 facilities with a total of about one million square feet of space. Its newest building, a 65,000-square-foot former factory at 359 Wales Avenue, between East 142nd Street and St. Mary's Street in the Bronx, opened last winter.
 For years, the company's spaces have been popular with students from Columbia University; Tuck-It-Away owns buildings nearby in Manhattanville. But the company could soon be battling Columbia, whose planned 18-acre expansion north of its current campus would remove four Tuck-It-Away buildings.
 ''Nobody wanted to be up here before,'' said Hanna Hanna, the company's general manager. ''Now, everybody does.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: An American Self-Storage site on West 141st Street, top, and storage spaces at a Storage Deluxe site on Exterior Street in the Bronx, above. (Photographs by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SELF STORAGE (94%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); GENERAL WAREHOUSING (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); TRENDS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); STATISTICS (71%); ICE CREAM MFG (50%) Housing; Storage

COMPANY: GREEN STREET ADVISORS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SELF STORAGE ASSOCIATION (84%) Self Storage Association

PERSON: C J Hughes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006



76 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMICS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: Why C.E.O.'s Aren't Sitting In the Dugout

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Just over a year ago, the man who held the purse strings at a private company outside San Francisco began negotiating a new employment contract with the executive who ran the day-to-day operations. 
 The company had recently turned around, thanks in part to the executive, and the company, understandably, wanted to keep him. It offered him a salary of almost $1 million a year, which it considered in line with the market.
The executive asked for almost $1.4 million. But the company wouldn't budge. Its message was simple: We like you and we want you to stay, but that doesn't mean you can name your salary. 
 ''Anytime you're running a business, you have to set a value on employees relative to your business,'' the part-owner in charge of the negotiations told me a couple of weeks ago. ''And before any negotiation starts, you have to consider your alternatives.'' 
 So the executive and the company parted ways. It started interviewing other candidates, and he began interviewing for similar jobs elsewhere. Until the situation took an unexpected turn -- and more on that later -- an otherwise good relationship looked as if it was going to be ruined by money.
 We know these details because the company in question was not an ordinary private company. It was the Oakland A's. The part-owner was Billy Beane, perhaps the best-known general manager in baseball. The executive was the team's on-field manager, Ken Macha. 
 One of the many baseball fans following this story last October was a retired banker named Robert L. Joss, who had become the dean of Stanford Business School after having been a vice chairman of Wells Fargo and the chief executive of an Australian bank. As he read the local newspaper accounts of the breakup between Mr. Beane and Mr. Macha, Mr. Joss was struck by a thought:
 You'd never see this in corporate America.
 It's difficult, in fact, to come up with a single example of a company and its chief executive splitting up over pay. Chief executives retire and are fired. But as long as they remain on the job, they evidently don't end up disagreeing with their boards about how valuable they are. The negotiation over a chief executive's pay is one that never seems to fail, which, of course, means that it isn't much of a negotiation at all. It's more like a friendly conversation.
 There are all kinds of structural reasons for this lack of market discipline. Under the current voting rules for public companies, shareholders have scant power over executive pay. And board members are often chief executives themselves, with pay packages that are influenced by the going rate for other executives.
 But the Ken Macha story is a wonderful allegory because it highlights a more subtly human problem with pay. When directors at a big company think they have found the right person for the job, they persuade themselves that no one else on earth could do it as well. They basically fall in love. Once that happens, almost no price seems too high.
 The Oakland A's, however, can't afford to fall in love. Their modest budget allowed them to spend just $62 million on players this season, compared with the Yankees' $200 million payroll. As Michael Lewis explained in the 2003 best seller ''Moneyball'' -- which made Mr. Beane semifamous -- the A's need to exploit inefficiencies in baseball's talent market, finding undervalued players, to have any hope of winning. 
 The contrast between this hard-headed approach and corporate America's cult of personality was especially clear to Lewis Wolff, the A's 70-year-old managing partner who was both Mr. Beane's and Mr. Macha's boss. Before buying the A's last year, Mr. Wolff ran 20th Century Fox's real estate division for a time, and he now sits on the boards of two New York Stock Exchange companies. 
 ''At my advanced age,'' Mr. Wolff said, laughing, ''I'm learning from Billy.''
 Billy -- as Mr. Beane is almost universally known -- understood that Mr. Macha had real value as a manager. He helped the A's overcome a dreadful start in 2005 and go on a late-summer run that nearly won them another division title. But Mr. Beane also understood that the additional $400,000 a year his manager wanted was $400,000 the team wouldn't be able to spend on a player who could make the difference between second place and first.
 So the team held firm, and one year ago this week, after the 2005 regular season ended, Mr. Macha returned home to the Pittsburgh suburb of Export, where he began looking for a manager's job with another team. On the plus side, the teams with openings generally gave their manager more of a say than Mr. Beane's carefully proscribed system did. But these other teams also weren't very good, and there was no guarantee that Mr. Macha would get one of the jobs anyway.
 A week later, Mr. Macha received a handwritten note from Mr. Wolff. ''You'll be successful at anything you do,'' it said, according to Mr. Macha. ''Thanks for a great season.''
 The letter caused Mr. Macha to reconsider. That night, he called Mr. Beane, and they had a conciliatory conversation that ended with Mr. Beane saying, ''What can I do to help you?'' Within a few days, they signed a deal very similar to the one the A's had originally offered. 
 This season, despite a rash of injuries, the team built by Mr. Beane and run by Mr. Macha won its division again. While the Boston Red Sox (payroll: $120 million), Los Angeles Angels ($103 million) and San Francisco Giants ($91 million) have all been eliminated, the A's beat the Minnesota Twins, 3-2, in the first game of the American League playoffs yesterday. The two teams play again this afternoon. 
 As Mr. Joss, the Stanford dean, sees it, there is more than one lesson to the story. Certainly, board members should realize that no employee is irreplaceable. But they should also remember that they have great leverage in pay negotiations, because being a chief executive -- like being a big-league manager -- is an enormously appealing job. 
 ''Not only is it good economically, but it's meaningful work: The executive is doing something he loves, and he is part of something,'' Mr. Joss said. ''You wonder how many C.E.O.'s would really leave these jobs.''
 Here's one guess: very, very few.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ken Macha of the Oakland A's after clinching the West title. (Photo by Robert Sorbo/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); SPORTS FANS (64%); SHAREHOLDERS (60%) Baseball; Coaches and Managers; Wages and Salaries; Executives and Management; Biographical Information

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (65%)

ORGANIZATION: OAKLAND A'S (82%) Oakland Athletics

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (65%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (65%)

PERSON: David Leonhardt; Ken Macha

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006



77 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: Meet Me in Revitalized Downtown St. Louis 

BYLINE: By ROBERT SHAROFF

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS 

 BODY:
The sale and redevelopment of St. Louis Centre, a nearly empty 540,000-square-foot enclosed shopping mall in downtown St. Louis, into a mixed-use retail and condominium complex is the latest step in that city's decade-long downtown revitalization effort. But it is also one more reminder of an urban planning scheme that never quite lived up to its promise.
 ''The Centre is the last remaining downtown trouble spot,'' said Barbara Geisman, the city's executive director for development.
The project is also significant because it is the first major project to be developed without the use of federal or state historic tax credits, signaling that prices have reached a point where new construction is possible. 
 The developer of the complex is Pyramid Companies, the largest of a handful of concerns that have led the downtown turnaround. The company owns or controls about three million square feet of space, making it the largest private landlord in the downtown area. 
 ''If downtown development is a 30-piece jigsaw puzzle,'' said John Steffen, president of Pyramid, ''then the Centre is the piece which brings the whole picture into focus.'' 
 In addition to the complex and its multistory parking lot, Pyramid has acquired the vacant 500,000-square-foot Stix, Baer & Fuller department store just north of it and the 240,000-square-foot Mercantile Library Building diagonally across from it at Sixth and Locust Streets.
 Pyramid's plan calls for stripping the four-story Centre building to structural steel and converting it to about 120 residential condominiums, ranging in size from 750 to 3,500 square feet, and 110,000 square feet of street-level retail space. He also plans to eliminate the sky bridges that connect the building to its former department store anchors, Famous-Barr (now Macy's) and the Stix, Baer & Fuller building.
 ''Because we're not using historic tax credits, the condos will have features like balconies and terraces and all-glass window walls,'' he said. ''Right now, there really isn't anything like that in downtown St. Louis. They will be unique and we should be able to charge a premium for them.'' 
 Mr. Steffen also plans to simultaneously redevelop the Stix, Baer & Fuller building and the Mercantile Library Building along similar lines. Both of those projects, however, will use state and federal historic tax credits.
 He said that construction would start after the first of the year and be finished by 2009. 
 The total cost of the project is $270 million, with part of the financing coming from Spinnaker Real Estate Partners, a Norwalk, Conn., development firm. 
 St. Louis Centre, which has been largely vacant for many years, was conceived in the mid-1980's as a way to revive the ailing downtown St. Louis retail district by recasting it as a suburban mall. The complex, which occupies an entire city block, had space for about 150 specialty stores. 
 The original developer was Melvin Simon & Associates, the forerunner of the Simon Property Group, based in Indianapolis and one of the largest developers of malls in the country.
 Numerous other cities around the country also bought into this concept with generally disappointing results.
 ''The thinking back then was if you built it, people would come,'' said Bruce A. Kaplan, president of Northern Realty Group in Chicago, which specializes in downtown retail leasing. ''But they didn't. Almost all of the downtown malls from that period failed.'' 
 The reason, he added, is that suburbanites preferred to shop closer to home, leaving downtown malls dependent primarily on daytime office workers. 
 ''But you can't make it on office workers alone,'' Mr. Kaplan said. ''You need people who live in and around the downtown area, you need tourists, you need business travelers and conventioneers. Then the synergies start to happen. But in St. Louis and a lot of other secondary markets, none of that was there.''
 It is now, however. Over the last five years, two dozen historic office buildings have been renovated into 1,100 apartments and loft condominiums in downtown St. Louis. 
 Much of this has been fueled by a state tax credit program that provides developers of historic buildings with a 25 percent tax credit that can be sold as an asset to companies looking to reduce their corporate tax bills. 
 ''It unleashed the market,'' said Richard C. D. Fleming, chief executive of the St. Louis Regional Chamber and Growth Association. 
 According to figures from the Downtown St. Louis Partnership, a private group that promotes downtown development, about 10,000 people now live in the area. 
 This summer, Busch Stadium, the new home of the St. Louis Cardinals baseball team, opened on the southern edge of downtown. Cardinal management has also announced plans to be a partner with the Cordish Company of Baltimore on a mixed-use project on about 10 acres it controls adjacent to the stadium. The project, called Ballpark Village, will consist of residential, retail and office space and will cost more than $650 million. 
 ''The vision is to create a new neighborhood in downtown St. Louis using the stadium as an anchor,'' said Blake Cordish, the company's vice president. ''We're encouraged by the developments that have been brewing in St. Louis for the last five years. We think the city is poised for the next step in its revitalization.''
 Another positive sign for downtown is the recent reopening, after a $47 million restoration, of the long-vacant Old Post Office building, an extravagant Second Empire building designed by Alfred B. Mullett in 1884. With its mansard roof and tiers of columns, the building strongly recalls Mr. Mullett's most famous building, the Old Executive Office Building in Washington.
 The building, which has 157,000 square feet of rentable space, has been redeveloped as a mixed-use office and retail project and is fully leased. 
 ''It's a building that leased for the right reasons,'' said Steven J. Stogel, co-developer of the building along with the Desco Group. ''People wanted to be there because of the significance of the building and the fact that it's basically the living room of downtown St. Louis.''
 In addition, 60 new retail establishments, from restaurants and bars to banks and furniture stores, have opened in the area.
 The new retail development has pretty much followed the plan laid down by a study the city commissioned several years ago from retail consultant Margaret McCauley, who was then with the Kravco Simon Company.
 ''Generally, all downtown revitalizations start with food and restaurants,'' Ms. McCauley said. ''But just about every type of retail -- home furnishings, apparel -- are possibilities in St. Louis because the town is so underserved.''
 The city set up a $500,000 fund for low-interest loans to retailers that meet certain guidelines, and has distributed all of it in increments that range from $5,000 to $50,000. 
 ''The retailers use the money for build-outs, working capital or whatever else they need,'' Ms. Geisman said. ''And if they stay for five years, the loans are forgiven.''
 Linda Loewenstein, owner of Niche, a 2,800-square-foot furniture and home accessories store, said, ''There's a lot of people moving downtown and we wanted to be part of that.'' Her store opened two years ago in a renovated loft building on nearby Washington Avenue. 
 ''We had sales of over $1 million our first year. It's amazing what a downtown street presence did for our business.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The glass-fronted St. Louis Centre is being redeveloped by the Pyramid Companies, whose president, John Steffen, is at right. (Photographs by William Zbaren for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); RETAILERS (92%); CITY LIFE (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); EXECUTIVES (70%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (65%) Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Urban Areas; Retail Stores and Trade; Shopping Centers

COMPANY: PYRAMID COS (83%)

ORGANIZATION: St Louis Center ; Pyramid Companies

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (83%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (78%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (78%) St Louis (Mo)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006



78 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1547 words

HEADLINE: DOW JONES INDEX HITS A NEW HIGH, RETRACING LOSSES 

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
The best-known measure of the stock market, the Dow Jones industrial average of 30 major stocks, rose 0.49 percent yesterday to squeak past a closing high that was set in January 2000 amid a technology-driven market boom. 
 In contrast to those heady days, though, investors and market professionals are greeting the current rally with more relief than euphoria, noting that the broader stock market has yet to find its way back to previous highs.
 ''I am happy that it has now happened so that we can move onto something else,'' said Liz Ann Sonders, chief investment strategist at Charles Schwab. 
 Stocks have been climbing without fanfare since late in July, bolstered by a decline in energy prices and by mounting signs that the Federal Reserve will not raise interest rates again this year. 
 The spark for yesterday's gains was a 4 percent drop in oil prices that pushed the next-month futures price of crude oil below $60 a barrel for the first time since March. 
 In 2000 and the years leading up to it, the rally was fueled by demand for computers and telecommunications and a belief that the Internet would transform business. The rally over the last few months has had more modest roots: signs that the economy is moderating and inflation is tame. Investors have been encouraged that falling crude oil and gasoline prices, while a sign of slowing demand, will restrain inflation and spur consumer spending. And investors have been heartened by what they hope is a gradual and orderly end of a five-year boom in home sales and construction.
 Indeed, many on Wall Street argue that the housing pullback and the decline in energy prices has put the economy in a sweet spot: not growing fast enough to accelerate inflation, but not so slowly that it risks falling into recession. 
 ''There is and will continue to be a building sense of a Goldilocks'' market, said James W. Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management.
 Charles P. Mayer of Pioneer Investments, a mutual fund company, added that corporate profits were still growing at robust rates, further supporting stock prices. 
 Still, a significant number of skeptics say that this view does not fully take into account the risks that falling home prices and sales could crimp consumer spending and cause an economic slump next year. These people note that the Dow's new high is hollow, given that broader gauges of the market have still not returned to their high-water marks.
 There is also the reality that the Dow is a measure by dollar value of only 30 blue-chip companies, and so is not representative of the great majority of traded stocks. 
 Jane L. Caron, chief economic strategy at Dwight Asset Management, a Vermont specialist in bond investing, took a measured view. ''There is a lot of concern that the housing market softening will spill over to the rest of the economy,'' she said. ''But if you look at the stock markets, they seem to think that everything is O.K.''
 ''Somebody is wrong,'' she added.
 The Dow industrials closed up 56.99 points yesterday, at 11,727.34, surpassing the record of 11,722.98 set on Jan. 14, 2000 -- a day when stocks were buoyed by a strong profit report from Intel and by comments from Alan Greenspan, then the Federal Reserve chairman, that interest rates would rise only slightly. 
 Most other market measures were also higher yesterday. The broad-based Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 0.21 percent, and the technology-focused Nasdaq composite index rose 0.27 percent. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-capitalization companies was fractionally lower.
 Unlike the Dow, the S.& P. 500 index is still about 12 percent away from its record high in March 2000. The majority of those stocks have returned to their 2000 levels, but a large minority -- including technology stars like Cisco Systems, Sun Microsystems and JDS Uniphase -- are trading at a fraction of their prices six years ago. The Nasdaq composite index is still down about 55 percent from its March 2000 peak.
 Seen another way, the stock market has spent the last six years exorcising the effects of the technology bubble, Howard Silverblatt, Standard & Poor's senior index analyst, said. He noted that without the technology sector, the S.& P. 500 would be up 17 percent today. Though not a spectacular return for six years, it would be a far better outcome for investors than a 12 percent decline.
 And by some measures, the Dow still has some way to go before it can be said to have reclaimed its previous heights. On an inflation-adjusted basis, the average would have to reach a level of 14,104.97 for it to match its January 2000 peak.
 Only 10 of the 30 stocks in the Dow today are at or above their levels when the index last reached its high. Most of the highfliers from the late 1990's and early 2000, including Microsoft, I.B.M. and Intel, are a long way from the lofty levels they were trading at then. Even companies like Home Depot, Alcoa and Merck are down more than 30 percent.
 ''This has been a really rotten five-year period,'' said James K. Glassman, a fellow at the conservative-leaning American Enterprise Institute and an author of the 1999 book ''Dow 36,000.''
 ''It really has, there is no doubt about it,'' said Mr. Glassman, who maintains that his book was mischaracterized at the time as a forecast for the market. He argues that the fear of terrorism has held down stock prices.
 Still, the Dow components that have led the charge back have done exceedingly well. The price of Altria, parent company of Philip Morris, fell to a five-year low early in 2000 because of its multibillion-dollar legal liabilities, but it has more than tripled since. The shares of Caterpillar, United Technologies and Boeing have soared because of strong global demand for their heavy industrial products. Exxon Mobil, the world's largest publicly traded oil company, is up almost 60 percent on the rise in energy prices.
 The last time the Dow inched close to the record, early in May, stocks tumbled from India to New York as investors worried that the Federal Reserve, in its eagerness to curb inflation, would raise rates so much that it would push the American economy into recession and precipitate the end of an era of relatively cheap financing worldwide. The Dow industrials fell more than 8 percent and the Nasdaq composite by 11 percent at the start of the summer.
 A few months have made a lot of difference. The Fed left its benchmark short-term rate unchanged at 5.25 percent in its last two meetings, on the rationale that a slowing economy and its two-year campaign to raise rates might be enough to lower prices. Indeed, inflation has slowed and data for September is widely expected to show a further drop because of the recent fall in energy prices. Nationally, average retail gasoline prices are at $2.36 a gallon this week, compared with just over $3 at the start of August.
 Declining home sales and construction activity has helped slow the economy without causing any major retrenchment, at least so far. The economy grew at a 2.6 percent annual pace in the second quarter after a 5.6 percent increase in the first three months of the year.
 Bond investors remain somewhat more skeptical than stock buyers. The yields on long-term Treasury bonds, for instance, indicate that investors are assuming that the Fed will have to reverse course soon and cut interest rates to resuscitate the economy.
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, has fallen to 4.61 percent, from 5.25 percent late in June. Investors demand higher yields when they are worried that inflation will eat deeper into the value of their holdings, and they push yields down when they think that interest rates are headed lower or when they are seeking shelter from tougher times.
 Market historians have noted that stocks can take a long time to recover from periods of great excess. The Dow and the S.&. P., for instance, did not return to their 1929 pre-crash peaks until 1954, long after the Depression and World War II ended.
 All this does not mean that investors have stood still in the last six years. Many foreign stock markets, especially those in developing countries, have outperformed American markets, as have commodities like oil, gold and copper. In the United States, the stocks of smaller companies have outrun larger ones, though that trend appears to have reversed this summer.
 Data on investment fund flows show that Americans have invested more in those faster-growing areas. They have also spent increasingly more on home purchases and improvements, as evidenced by the large run-up in housing sales and prices and the sharp increases in mortgage and home equity lending.
 Will the Dow's new record prompt skeptical investors to reconsider stocks, perhaps giving them a psychological boost? Momentum can help propel stock markets, but investors could also conclude that the Dow's return to its early 2000 level means that the index has merely been treading water for six years.
 ''You're telling me that I have gone six and a half years and gone even,'' Mr. Silverblatt of S.& P. said. ''What about the 19 percent inflation? Well, it's better than being down, but it's not as positive as you think.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Traders on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange showed a variety of moods yesterday as the Dow Jones industrial average rose to the highest close since January 2000. Other indexes still trail their records. (Photo by Robert Caplin for The New York Times)(pg. C5)Graph ''New High for the Dow'' tracks the Dow Jones Industrial Average since 1997. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. A1)Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C5)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C5)Chart: ''A New High, but Not for All''Although the Dow Jones industrial average hit a new high yesterday, only 10 of the 30 stocks that make up the average have surpassed their closing prices on Jan. 14, 2000, the previous blue-chip peak. And five of the stocks have declined since the market hit bottom Oct. 9, 2002.Graph shows PRICE RETURN SINCE TROUGH, OCT. 9, 2002 and INDUSTRIALS AVERAGE.Circle size reflects each company's weight in the index, which is based on its stock price.On April 8, 2004, A.I.G., Pfizer and Verizon replaced AT&T, Eastman Kodak and International Paper. Since then, SBC Communications acquired AT&T and took its name.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BONDS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RECESSION (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); HOME PRICES (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); INTEREST RATES (68%) Stocks and Bonds; United States Economy; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Records and Achievements; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Housing; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (58%); DWIGHT ASSET MANAGEMENT CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Nasdaq Composite Index

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006



79 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: Russian Officials Pledge More Sanctions to Cut Off Cash to Georgia

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS; Michael Schwirtz contributed reporting from Batumi, Georgia.

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Oct. 3 

 BODY:
Diplomatic tensions between Russia and Georgia worsened significantly on Tuesday when Russian officials vowed to impose indefinite economic sanctions on the nation to the south. 
 The Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, said the suspension of transportation links and postal service -- announced Monday and effective early Tuesday -- was intended to cut what he described as illegal transfers of cash from the sizable Georgian diaspora in Russia. He said the cash was being used to finance Georgia's military buildup. 
 He said the sanctions would go into force despite the release on Monday of four Russian military officers, whose arrests by Georgia last week on charges of espionage sparked a new round of furious accusations between the countries.
 Russia's lower house of Parliament announced that it was drafting a bill that would bar money transfers to Georgia, which make up a large part of Georgia's economy. 
 Mr. Lavrov said Georgia was seeking to expand its military in preparation for seizing control of two breakaway regions, Abkhazia and South Ossetia, which receive significant support from Russia.
 In remarks redolent of cold war confrontations in Europe, Mr. Lavrov went on to suggest that Georgia had arrested the Russian officers with the tacit encouragement of the United States and NATO, which agreed last month on a schedule for negotiations on Georgia's possible membership in the military alliance.
 ''The seizure of our officers immediately followed, I repeat, NATO's decision to grant Georgia an intense cooperation plan, intense dialogue,'' Mr. Lavrov said, adding that NATO's step followed the recent visit to Washington of President Mikheil Saakashvili of Georgia.
 A senior American official said in a telephone interview that Mr. Lavrov's assertions were groundless, adding that the United States had urged the Georgians, along with the Russians, to defuse tensions. ''That's not true and Lavrov knows it is not true,'' the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said of the accusations of American or NATO encouragement.
 Mr. Lavrov's remarks came during a series of retaliatory acts in Moscow aimed at Georgia or Georgian economic interests. Those in turn were accompanied by a frenzy of news media reports about Georgian criminality.
 It began on Tuesday morning in Moscow with an Interior Ministry raid on a Georgian-controlled casino called Krystal. There, the official Russian Information Agency reported, officers found 84 gambling tables and 259 slot machines without proper documentation and a ''large amount of caviar'' in the casino's kitchen that the owners could not prove was legal or safe.
 The Interior Ministry later seized a Georgian hotel in Moscow after an inspection, while city authorities announced the confiscation of 500,000 bottles of Georgian wine, which had been found despite a Russian ban imposed earlier this year.
 It was not clear how far Russia would go to sever economic ties. All flights between Russia and Tbilisi, the Georgian capital, were canceled, for example, but Gazprom, Russia's gas monopoly, reported that it would not interrupt supplies.
 In Georgia, President Saakashvili said the potential effect of Russia's economic pressure was ''grossly exaggerated.'' In an interview, he defended the decision to arrest the Russian officers he later released, and remained defiant.
 ''We are prepared to live without Russia,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); GAMING (84%); COLD WAR (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LEGISLATION (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (70%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (70%); ESPIONAGE (69%) Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%)

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (58%) Sergey V (Min) Lavrov; Steven Lee Myers

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); GEORGIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%) Georgia (Georgian Republic); Russia

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006



80 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Tigers' Big Season Revives Hopes for Detroit Rebound

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 3 

 BODY:
If only this entire city could reverse its fortunes as quickly and dramatically as its baseball team has.
 Three years ago, the Detroit Tigers were a laughingstock, a once-great franchise that drove away fans while accumulating the second-worst record in major league history. This year, the Tigers not only snapped a streak of 12 losing seasons, but also held the best record in baseball for most of the summer.
In doing so, the Tigers, who lost 8-4 to the New York Yankees on Tuesday in their first playoff appearance since 1987, have done more than just bring back October baseball to Detroit. Their resurgence has given residents hope that the Motor City can recapture some of its past glory, too. 
 The remarkable run has been a rare source of optimism amid shrinking and closing factories that cost Michigan 200,000 manufacturing jobs from 2000 to last year, leaving it with the highest unemployment rate in the nation, 7.1 percent in August.
 ''It's good to have the Tigers back, because this is the heart and soul of the city of Detroit,'' Mayor Kwame M. Kilpatrick said Monday at a rally outside Comerica Park, the Tigers' home. 
 The success has attracted hundreds of thousands of additional visitors to a downtown that even people living in the suburbs have largely ignored in recent years. Attendance at each game was 7,500 higher than last year, when it averaged 25,306. 
 The influx of visitors is invaluable for a city that has desperately tried to fill vacant stores and fight perceptions that it is unsafe. Mr. Kilpatrick said 66 businesses and 38 restaurants had opened downtown since 2000, evidence, he said, that doubters were wrong ''when they said in 1974, 'The last person out of Detroit, please turn off the lights,' and when they said Detroit was dead.''
 Chris Costa, a middle school teacher who attends many Tigers games every year, said: ''People are more comfortable coming down here. Everybody's jumping on the bandwagon, and that's fine with me.''
 The transformation occurred almost as if the Chamber of Commerce had planned it. Detroit, whose population of 900,000 is half as large as it was 50 years ago, spent years improving the look of its downtown before crowds arrived in July 2005 for the All-Star Game at Comerica Park and in February for Super Bowl XL on the Detroit Lions' adjacent home field. 
 Efforts to revitalize the city core ahead of those events led to the construction of the first major new office buildings here in a decade and of residential lofts in long-abandoned high-rises. 
 When the Super Bowl parties ended, many acknowledged that downtown looked more appealing than it had in a generation but wondered what would continue to draw people from the suburbs -- until the Tigers established themselves as a postseason contender.
 ''It's been great for the city,'' a lawyer here, Larry Dudek, said as he walked to the game on Sunday with his two sons. 
 Mr. Dudek pointed to the new stores and restored facades along the main thoroughfare, Woodward Avenue. 
 ''Three years ago, this was literally just planks and busted-up storefronts,'' he said.
 Brenda Cornelius, who worked downtown until the mid-1980's, was pleased to see more activity as she walked to the game, her first since the Tigers moved to Comerica Park in 2000.
 ''It's changed a lot,'' said Ms. Cornelius, who lives in Romulus, about 20 miles away, near Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport.
 ''I've been down here probably three times since then,'' she added. ''I used to shop in these stores down here.''
 Cheli's Chili Bar, a four-story restaurant a block from Comerica Park that opened a week after the Super Bowl, was overwhelmed with diners all summer. Its owner, Chris Chelios, a defenseman on the Red Wings hockey team, hopes that people who ventured downtown to see the Tigers will return in the off-season, having been impressed by the growing number of restaurants and entertainment options. 
 ''We owe everything to the Tigers,'' a manager at Cheli's, Adam Reed, said. ''There are so many new fans this year. Detroit has a bad reputation, but it was never as bad as people said it was.''
 Near the end of the Tigers' season, a group of Detroit businessmen inspired by the pre- and postgame crowds announced plans for an entertainment district aimed at persuading suburbanites to visit downtown on evenings and weekends.
 The Tigers' owner, Mike Ilitch, who built Comerica Park in a blighted area and moved the team there from Tiger Stadium six years ago, is negotiating with national retailers and a luxury grocery store that want to open in the neighborhood.
 The poorest large city in the United States, Detroit has few large grocery stores and has had no major department stores since the 25-story J. L. Hudson building closed in 1983.
 The new growth might spur Mr. Ilitch, founder of the Little Caesars pizza chain, to build a new hockey arena for his Red Wings nearby, replacing a collection of vacant lots and empty buildings.
 Detroit has always had a particularly close relationship with its sports teams, and none has arguably had a greater impact than the Tigers. Their 1968 World Series victory helped calm racial tension after deadly riots in 1967. And the struggles since its most recent championship season, in 1984, seemed to mirror Detroit's woes as Japanese automakers challenged and ended the city's dominance of the automotive industry.
 As Michigan's largest employers, General Motors and Ford, eliminated thousands of jobs, the Tigers pushed some of the grim news off the front page. 
 ''People have been able to take their mind off of it because of what the Tigers have done,'' said County Executive Robert A. Ficano of Wayne County, which includes Detroit.
 ''There's an energy that had been missing,'' said Dave Gaines, who took his son Bryan, 15, to see the Tigers close their regular season at Comerica Park last weekend. ''Now if the Lions would ever get their act together, this place would go nuts.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Tigers snapped a 12-season losing streak, and fans old and new came out to cheer them on Monday.
 A retired Dodge worker, James Lewis, outside Comerica Park at a rally on Monday for the Detroit Tigers and their return to the playoffs. (Photographs by Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); TOURNAMENTS (75%); SUBURBS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TRENDS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); OFFICE PROPERTY (65%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (63%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (50%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (50%) Baseball; Economic Conditions and Trends; Social Conditions and Trends; Automobiles

COMPANY: COMERICA INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT TIGERS (96%); NEW YORK YANKEES (57%) Detroit Tigers

TICKER: CMA (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (55%)

PERSON: Nick Bunkley

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006



81 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: For Some Pushcart Vendors, Grim Outlook Is Revealed

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
Years of tough oversight and steep fines have left street vendors in Lower Manhattan in a precarious economic state, barely able to make a living at a time when most vendors are educated, law-abiding immigrants who increasingly support large families both overseas and locally, according to a report yesterday by the Urban Justice Center. 
 The report, based on an in-depth survey, in five languages, of 100 street vendors in 2004 and 2005, comes from an advocacy group that is calling for reductions in the fines imposed on the vendors. The breadth of the study also provides intriguing details into a subculture that helps to feed and even clothe New Yorkers. 
Those surveyed reported a median net income of $7,500 a year, placing them in the bottom tenth of wage earners, although many may have deliberately underreported their earnings. The vendors surveyed said they paid an average of $433 in fines each year. The typical vendor is a married immigrant man who is the sole provider for his family and has no health insurance, the study found.
 The vast majority, 83 percent, were immigrants. By comparison, 93 percent of New York City pushcart vendors were found to be immigrants in a seminal 1925 study by the United States Department of Agriculture.
 The vendors occupy ethnic niches. In Lower Manhattan, fruit and vegetable sellers were either Bangladeshi (44 percent) or Chinese (56 percent). Coffee sellers were overwhelmingly from Afghanistan (80 percent), while most native-born vendors sold clothing, arts and crafts. Only 20 percent of the vendors reported English as their first language; forty percent said they were uncomfortable speaking it. 
 Of those surveyed, 46 percent sold food, 28 percent sold books, magazines or art and 26 percent sold merchandise. In the 1925 federal study, food accounted for 72 percent of street sales. 
 The authors of the report, Sean J. Basinski and Sara Sluszka, had a grim conclusion.
 ''The legendary success stories of the past are nearly unthinkable today,'' they wrote, likening the vendors to the Jewish and Italian pushcart operators who thronged the Lower East Side a century ago. ''Vendors are faced with so much regulation and harassment that they can barely subsist. Rather than being supported, they are targeted as 'quality of life' criminals and hindered at every turn.'' 
 At a news conference in the Bronx, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said that the fines were longstanding elements of city law and that the city would not let up in enforcing its regulations. 
 ''The only ways you get people to obey the law is to fine them,'' he said. ''So I guess first and foremost I'd say, 'Don't break the law and then you won't have that problem.' ''
 The vendors in the survey reported getting an average of 6.7 tickets a year. A thicket of city departments -- health and mental hygiene, consumer affairs, sanitation, environmental protection, finance, parks and recreation and police -- have enforcement powers over the vendors.
 The violations included being too close to the curb (22 percent); working on a restricted street (16 percent); being too close to a storefront (15 percent); and health violations (10 percent). 
 The city's Environmental Control Board, an administrative agency, rules on most of the summonses issued to vendors. Because of language barriers, nearly 60 percent of the vendors surveyed said they did not feel comfortable before the board, and 41 percent said they did not even appear to defend themselves.
 Penalties range from $25 for the first violation to $250 for fourth and subsequent violations. In February, after two court challenges, the board raised the maximum penalty for a non-health-related offense to $1,000 per violation. A bill before the City Council would rescind the increase. 
 But Mr. Bloomberg said stiff fines were needed. ''The fines have to be meaningful or people just mark them down as a cost of doing business,'' he said.
 Asked why they chose their line of work, the largest proportion of the vendors, 38 percent, said they simply could not find another job. Another 27 percent said they loved the freedom. Ten percent said they enjoyed the work, 7 percent said they had a disability that kept them from holding other jobs, and 7 percent said vending provided good money.
 In addition to lowering the fines, the report urged easing caps on vending licenses and permits; reopening streets and removing obstacles on sidewalks; overhauling the web of regulations and making it easier for vendors to retrieve seized property; and providing more translators in proceedings involving the vendors. 
 Mitchell Duneier, a Princeton sociologist and author of ''Sidewalk,'' a 1999 study of book and magazine vendors in Greenwich Village, called the report a ''systematic and reliable study'' of Lower Manhattan vendors. 
 ''While the findings cannot necessarily be generalized to other parts of the city, the recommendations seem sound and constructive,'' Mr. Duneier said. ''The regulation of street vendors in New York has become increasingly arbitrary. The report is correct -- and it applies throughout the city -- that street vendors are having larger and larger fines imposed on them for smaller and smaller violations.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (92%); IMMIGRATION (91%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (89%); CRIMINAL FINES (78%); FAMILY (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (73%); REFUGEES (72%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (70%); WRITERS (68%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (65%); HEALTH INSURANCE (52%) Vendors, Street; Immigration and Refugees; Law and Legislation; Fines (Penalties); Vendors, Street

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (55%) Urban Justice Center (Orgn)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%) Sewell Chan; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (69%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006



82 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: More Than 12 Expected to Bid For Complexes

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
More than a dozen groups, including one aligned with the tenants at Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village, are expected to deliver bids tomorrow to buy the sprawling complexes for anywhere from $4.3 billion to more than $5 billion in what promises to be the largest real estate deal in American history.
 The opportunity to buy 80 acres and 110 buildings overlooking the East River has drawn widespread interest from investors. But the pending sale of this leafy enclave for generations of teachers, graphic artists, police officers and Con Edison workers has also become a lightning rod for public anger over skyrocketing housing prices in recent years, which have put Manhattan apartments outside the grasp of so many middle-class New Yorkers.
Metropolitan Life, the largest life insurer in North America, built the complexes for returning veterans in 1947 and announced earlier this year that it would auction them off. The announcement upset many of the 25,000 residents. Nearly three quarters of the apartments still have regulated rents at roughly half the market rate. Tenants fear the changes that will come with a new owner seeking more higher-paying tenants. 
 The plain, red brick buildings along First Avenue, between 14th and 23rd Streets, are more ''meat and potatoes,'' as one bidder put it, than gleaming real estate trophies like Rockefeller Center, the General Motors Building or the Chrysler Building.
 But the chance to gain control of such a large block of apartments and a wide swath of land in an international city of rising rents has many prospective buyers salivating. The deal is in fact so big that every bidder has had to take on partners.
 ''It's a one-of-a-kind purchase,'' said Richard S. LeFrak, chairman of the Lefrak Organization, which is bidding in partnership with two financial institutions. ''Any transformation is going to occur over a long period of time.''
 ''It has a very exciting potential,'' said William L. Mack, a principal at Apollo Real Estate Advisors, which is bidding in partnership with ING Clarion Partners, an investment fund. ''These things don't come up very often.'' 
 MetLife, which has told potential buyers that it is willing to retain a stake in the complexes, is hoping to close the deal by Nov. 15, a quick goal for such a large transaction. The company plans to review the bids and ask a smaller group to make a second, noncontingent offer by Oct. 15. 
 The tenants association at Peter Cooper and Stuyvesant Town is also putting together a bid of more than $4 billion based on a plan that involves selling some apartments at market and below-market rates, while preserving about 20 percent of the units as rentals affordable to middle-income families. But the offer is dependent on MetLife's willingness to accept less money from the tenants if bids escalate to $5 billion and beyond.
 ''I hope the tenants are able to swing this,'' said Sonny Fink, a Peter Cooper tenant for 45 years. ''We want to buy this thing. It looks very good, if they give us any kind of break at all.''
 But other bidders have different goals. The Lefrak Organization owns about 20,000 rent-regulated apartments in New York City. In recent years, Apollo has been one of the more aggressive buyers of New York apartments and would double its holdings. Other probable bidders include Related Companies; Stellar Management; Vornado Realty Trust, which owns the Bloomberg Building on the Upper East Side; and Tishman Speyer, which controls Rockefeller Center. Buyers based in Saudi Arabia, Israel and Qatar are also in the mix, executives say.
 Even as the condominium market has slowed, investors have increasingly bought pedestrian rental buildings, which are seen as relatively safe investments with potential windfall profits when the apartments no longer qualify for rent regulation. It is a long-term strategy with a small return in the early years, given a high purchase price, bidders say.
 Under rent regulations, an apartment can be decontrolled after it becomes vacant, or if the rent reaches $2,000 a month and the existing tenant's household income rises above $175,000 for two consecutive years. Owners can also pass on to tenants part of the cost of capital improvements, pushing rents toward the $2,000 level.
 In recent years, MetLife has sought to open up apartments by ousting illegal subtenants and people whose primary residences are elsewhere. Today, about 27 percent of the 12,232 apartments rent at market rates. The sale documents anticipate that 600 more units will be decontrolled next year and 1,000 more in 2008. 
 But the pending sale has become a political issue. Middle-income neighborhoods are fast disappearing in Manhattan. Critics contend that MetLife built Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village with tax breaks and other subsidies for middle-income residents.
 ''It's becoming clear that middle-class families can't find a place to live,'' said Brad Lander, director of the Pratt Center for Community Development. ''But here MetLife is intent on making billions more by selling to a buyer who displaces middle-income people with higher-income people. But it's not in the city's interest to displace middle-class families.''
 MetLife executives say they do not have a continuing obligation to provide subsidized housing. They say the company's 25-year agreement with the city to provide affordable housing expired in the 1970's.
 The Bloomberg administration, which has long trumpeted its plans to preserve and expand affordable housing for low- and middle-income families, has been grappling with the pending sale. Officials say they have talked to bidders, including the tenants group, and are trying to assess the relatively high costs of preserving Stuyvesant Town versus the lower cost of building affordable housing in Brooklyn, Queens, Staten Island or the Bronx.
 Some bidders say the city could face a lawsuit if it provides tax abatements or tax-free bonds exclusively to the tenants.
 ''We're waiting to see how this unfolds,'' Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff said.
 City Councilman Daniel L. Garodnick, who lives in Peter Cooper Village and has been promoting a tenant bid, said this was a ''defining moment in city history.''
 ''It's a question of whether we will take a stand in defense of housing for the middle class,'' Mr. Garodnick said. ''It's very important for the city's economy that we do so. That's why it's generated so much interest, not just locally, but nationally. We expect to make a competitive bid here, one that will allow MetLife to make a profit and also honor the tradition of affordability in that community.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RENT CONTROL (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); HOME PRICES (75%); HISTORY (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); FAMILY (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); VISUAL ARTISTS (55%); LIFE INSURANCE (54%) Housing; Peter Cooper Village (NYC); Stuyvesant Town (NYC); Auctions; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Renting and Leasing ; Housing

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Life

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: Charles V Bagli

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006



83 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Buying in Manhattan? Apartment Prices Steady

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
If you have been waiting to buy a Manhattan apartment until after prices come tumbling down, you may have to wait a little longer.
 Manhattan co-op and condominium prices sagged a bit last quarter, in the usually slow summer selling season, but by most measures they remained healthily above prices reported a year ago, according to a number of competing market reports released yesterday.
The conclusion of many of the brokerage firms releasing reports was that after a large advance in prices over the last few years, followed by several quarters of uncertainty, the market was essentially stable during the last quarter, despite the fact that apartments from a wave of new construction are coming on the market and there was continuing uncertainty about the direction of interest rates and the economy. 
 ''We've been on the freeway for four years at 90 miles an hour, and now we are at a regular pace of 60,'' said Michael Martin, the director of research at Mitchell, Maxwell & Jackson, an appraisal firm, which released one of five reports made available yesterday, and collaborated with the Corcoran Group on a second report, with slightly different numbers. ''We are back to a fairly regular pace of sales activity.''
 The various reports' figures for the average decline in price of a Manhattan apartment ranged from 1 percent to 10 percent from the previous quarter, with larger price declines in the sales of older co-ops being offset by increases in the average price of condominiums, including the sales of many new apartments that often sell at a premium.
 Average prices declined on the West Side of Manhattan by up to 17 percent during the quarter, offset in part by rising prices on the East Side, according to several of the studies.
 Prudential Douglas Elliman, whose study reported the highest quarterly sales prices, put the average sale price at $1.3 million, down 7 percent from the prior quarter, and 12 percent above the $1.15 million average sales reported a year ago. Another brokerage firm, Brown Harris Stevens, put the average price at $1.1 million, 10 percent below the previous quarter and 4 percent below figures it recorded a year ago. 
 Offsetting the quarterly decline were other figures suggesting the market was essentially stable. The number of sales recorded during the quarter rose, and the number of listings of apartments at Manhattan brokerage firms was flat, after rising 32 percent during the previous year, according to the Elliman study. The average number of days an apartment was on the market increased slightly, from 144 to 150. Rising inventory can indicate a weakening market.
 Although hundreds of apartment sales are recorded by the city each week throughout the summer, an increase in activity was reported in recent weeks. Jonathan J. Miller, president of Miller Samuel Inc., an appraisal firm that prepared a market study for Prudential Douglas Elliman, said that many buyers were ''sitting on the fence'' and unable to make a decision. At the same time, he said, sellers had not significantly dropped prices.
 ''Nobody is making a decision,'' he said. ''At some point someone has to blink.''
 Mr. Miller said that in the last few years, prices have declined and sales have slowed in the third quarter, only to regain momentum, as buyers, stirred by bonuses on Wall Street, rushed in to buy expensive apartments. 
 Part of the uncertainty over the direction of the Manhattan market comes from the many ambiguous and contradictory market reports issued by various brokerage firms. They all combine publicly available data on co-op and condo sales, with proprietary information on closed sales that have not yet been filed and recorded. The result is that each report includes a different mix of sales, and may record the same sales in different quarters as information becomes available. 
 Sometimes the information available is incomplete. Mr. Miller, for example, said the increase in reported sales might be the result in part of better data collection, as the city provided public access to sale prices of co-ops that had not previously been available. 
 Pamela Liebman, the chief executive of the Corcoran Group, noted that while the overall market paused in the last few quarters, the prices on smaller apartments had continued to rise, driving up median prices, a measure less influenced by multimillion-dollar sales, making even small apartments more expensive. As a result, some developers of new apartments have been offering concessions, such as covering closing costs, that would reduce the cash outlay needed to buy an apartment. 
 Gregory J. Heym, chief economist for Brown Harris Stevens, who produced the most seemingly pessimistic figures, said the price decline actually captured a market shift. He said the decline in average sales prices reflected a change in the typical apartments sold: the average apartment size dropped and the price per square foot rose.
 He said he expected the strong local economy, and modest interest rates, to keep the co-op and condominium markets stable.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (52%)

PERSON: Josh Barbanel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006



84 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Classified; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 218 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
LUKENS, JAY PHELPS

 BODY:
 LUKENS--Jay Phelps, passed away at home on October 1 following a private and courageous battle with cancer. Jay was the cherished husband of Susan for nearly 30 years and beloved father of Clinton, Ashley and Walker. Jay grew up in Minnesota and later moved to Florida where he was a Thomas Presidential Scholar at Eckerd College. Jay completed his Ph.D in Economics at Texas A&M University earning the Alfred Chalk award. Jay started his career with AT&T in Basking Ridge, but in1985 moved to Texas to work for Transco Energy. In 1997, Jay started Lukens Energy Group. Despite his successes however, Jay always remained modest and placed the greatest value on close friendships with his partners, co-workers, and many colleagues within the energy industry. Jay supported many benevolent causes and was a trustee on the Board of Eckerd College. The family is grateful to MD Anderson and the brillance of Dr. Chris Logothetis. In lieu of flowers, Jay wished that donations be made to Eckerd College, Grace School and the St. Francis Episcopal Day School Mission Honduras. Jay's funeral service will be held at Memorial Drive Presbyterian Church on October 5th, 1 p.m., and a viewing will be held at the Bradshaw-Carter Funeral Home from 5-8 on October 4th. Online tributes may be posted at www.bradshawcarter.com 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006



85 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Sales of S.U.V.'s and Pickup Trucks Rebound a Bit 

BYLINE: BY NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 3 

 BODY:
Sales of sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks rebounded slightly in September but not enough to prevent General Motors and DaimlerChrysler from losing market share to Toyota.
 Falling gas prices, lower interest rates and higher incentives helped sales of light trucks increase 1.2 percent from a year ago after months of declines, while passenger car sales fell 5.5 percent, according to Ward's AutoInfoBank. That allowed Detroit's automakers, which rely heavily on sales of S.U.V.'s and pickups, to have one of their better months.
But in what has become a common occurrence, their performance was overshadowed by Toyota, whose sales surged more than 20 percent.
 Toyota has the right image, said Jesse Toprak of Edmunds.com, which gives advice on cars. ''Image seems to be the most important thing for a carmaker right now.'' 
 Of the seven largest automakers, only Toyota, which accounted for 16.5 percent of the market, and Ford Motor, at 17.3 percent, increased their share. Sales of all Ford vehicles were were up 0.4 percent when adjusted for one additional selling day this September, Ward's reported.
 Ford managed to sell 21 percent more cars than a year ago, although a significant portion of those sales were to low-margin fleet customers. That is a practice the automaker has said it needs to minimize to make progress in its turnaround.
 Toyota would have outsold Ford for only the second time ever had Ford not sold an additional 12,000 Taurus sedans to rental agencies in September. That increase made the Taurus, which will soon be discontinued, the eighth-best-selling vehicle for the month even though it is not available at dealerships. 
 G.M., which gained market share in August, lost ground in September as it sold 6.9 percent fewer vehicles. Sales of G.M.'s trucks fell nearly 5 percent, while car sales declined 10 percent, giving the company 21.6 percent of the market.
 G.M. said it was reducing its fourth-quarter production target for North America by 20,000 vehicles, to 1.11 million. That cut is in addition to a previously announced reduction of 150,000 vehicles.
 At DaimlerChrysler, Mercedes Benz reported its best September sales ever, while its United States-based division, the Chrysler Group, continued its slump. A bright spot for Chrysler, which expects to lose $1.5 billion in the third quarter before introducing new models, was a 60 percent increase in sales of minivans, one of its most important segments.
 ''The minivan is back,'' said Chrysler's vice president for sales, Steven J. Landry. ''We seem to be lining up fairly well for the fourth quarter with all of our new product.''
 To clear dealer lots for 2007 models, Chrysler and Ford on Tuesday announced incentives for October. Unlike last summer, when all three Detroit automakers cleared out inventories with ''employee discount for everyone'' promotions, each has large numbers of current-year models left over. Chrysler is offering a choice of no-interest financing for 60 months or up to $6,000 cash back on about two-thirds of its remaining 2006 vehicles.
 Meanwhile, Ford is beginning a ''Truck Month'' advertising campaign, featuring the country singer Toby Keith, that will promote no-interest financing on 2006 F-150, Super Duty and Ranger pickups.
 G.M. has no plans to follow its competitors with a similar deal, its chief sales analyst, Paul Ballew, said.
 Ford's new promotion sets up a marketing duel for the lucrative pickup truck market between Mr. Keith, singing ''I Am a Workin' Man,'' and a series of patriotic commercials from G.M. set to John Mellencamp's coming release of ''Our Country.''
 Automakers hope gas prices near $2 a gallon will help them sell trucks and S.U.V.'s. But they are not counting on consumers flocking back to big vehicles after many shifted to smaller, more fuel-efficient cars.
 ''We're keeping our fingers crossed that the decline in gas prices and interest rates will provide some additional pluses for the industry,'' Mr. Ballew said.
 Analysts said gas prices would need to remain low for a sustained period, which is unlikely, for a major change in buying patterns to occur.
 George Pipas, Ford's chief sales analyst, said lower gas prices and interest rates might convince consumers ''who were on the fence'' that now is a good time to buy a truck.
 ''Our view is, quite simply, that the lower gas prices that we have been seeing are not going to pull anybody into this segment that didn't want to be there,'' Mr. Pipas said.
 Mr. Toprak of Edmunds.com attributes higher truck sales in September to high incentives on pickups and S.U.V.'s more than to falling gas prices. Incentives last month averaged $5,532 on large S.U.V.'s and $4,990 on large pickups, compared with $672 on small cars.
 Accordingly, Mr. Toprak said, dealers could entice shoppers to buy a truck by showing them those discounts and saying, ''Think about how much gas you can get for $5,000.''

 Light Trucks: 679,195
Total: 1,325,901

SEPT. 2006
Cars: 635,386
Light Trucks: 714,537
Total: 1,349,923

CHANGE
Cars: -1.8%
Light Trucks: +5.2%
Total: +1.8%

ADJUSTED CHANGE*
 Cars: -5.5%
Light Trucks: +1.2%
Total: -2.1%

ANNUAL SELLING RATE (millions)
 Cars: 7.64
Light Trucks: 8.93
Total: 16.57

How Automakers Fared

DAIMLERCHRYSLER
Sept. 2006 Sales: 188,767
Adjusted Change*: - 6.0%
Market Share: 14.0%

FORD
Sept. 2006 Sales: 232,904
Adjusted Change*: + 0.4
Market Share: 17.3

GENERAL MOTORS
Sept. 2006 Sales: 334,223
Adjusted Change*: - 6.9
Market Share: 24.8

HONDA
Sept. 2006 Sales: 116,226
Adjusted Change*: - 7.8
Market Share: 8.6

HYUNDAI
Sept. 2006 Sales: 33,384
Adjusted Change*: -16.0
Market Share: 2.5

NISSAN
Sept. 2006 Sales: 88,356
Adjusted Change*: - 9.2
Market Share: 6.5

TOYOTA
Sept. 2006 Sales: 222,950
Adjusted Change*: +20.2
Market Share: 16.5

Most Popular Cars and Trucks

Data for the United States.


			Change 			Sept. 2006 	from Sept.			Sales	2005 Sales	FORD	F series	70,822	- 2.2%	CHEVROLET	Silverado	51,964	+ 4.0	TOYOTA	Camry	38,269	- 0.1	TOYOTA	Corolla	32,279	+ 5.4	HONDA	Accord	27,759	-21.2	HONDA	Civic	26,331	-16.1	DODGE	Ram	25,081	-32.1	FORD	Taurus	22,811	+57.8	CHEVROLET	Impala	21,863	- 3.1	NISSAN	Altima	19,752	-28.2	DODGE	Caravan	18,493	+43.5	GMC	Sierra	17,604	+ 4.3	TOYOTA	Tacoma	16,687	+ 9.7	FORD	Explorer	15,701	+17.2	CHEVROLET	Trailblazer	15,328	-31.2	

*Based on average daily sales adjusted for any differences in the number of selling days in a month.

Sales for DaimlerChrysler include Mercedes; sales for Ford include Volvo and Land Rover; sales for General Motors include Saab.

(Source by Ward's AutoInfoBank)

GRAPHIC: PhotosChart: ''How the Industry Fared''SEPT 2005Cars: 646,706

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (97%); PICKUP TRUCKS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (91%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MARKET SHARE (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); MINIVANS (79%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); SEDANS (78%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); NEW PRODUCTS (65%) Automobiles; Sales; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp; Daimlerchrysler Ag; Toyota Motor Corp

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: Nick Bunkley

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006



86 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Education Dept. Urged to Recoup $278 Million in Loan Subsidies

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
The federal Department of Education will have to decide whether to seek to recover hundreds of millions of dollars in student loan subsidy payments to a loan company that the department's inspector general has found were improper. 
 In a report released late last week, the inspector general recommended that the department recover $278 million paid to Nelnet, a student lender based in Lincoln, Neb. The payments were made under a program that guarantees a 9.5 percent interest rate on some loans regardless of prevailing market rates.
The subsidies were offered in the 1980's to support the federal student loan program at a time when market interest rates were higher. But as interest rates fell to historic lows in recent years, the subsidy program offered a way for lenders to earn higher-than-market returns. 
 Since some payments continue under the program, which has been criticized by lawmakers and student advocates, the report warned that the government might improperly pay $882 million more to Nelnet unless the department took action. The inspector general gave Nelnet 30 days to respond to the report.
 Nelnet challenged the report's findings. Mike Dunlap, chairman and co-chief executive of the company, said, ''We will continue to seek a resolution of this matter with the department and will also examine all other available remedies that prove the merits of our position.''
 Katherine McLane, press secretary for the Education Department, said it was ''reviewing the report and will consider Nelnet's response before issuing a decision.''
 An audit by the inspector general's office found that through a series of financing moves, Nelnet increased the size of its portfolio of loans eligible for the guaranteed interest rate to nearly $3.7 billion in June 2004, from $551 million in March 2003. The report found that the increased amount of loans ''was ineligible to be billed under the 9.5 percent floor.'' Representative George Miller of California, the senior Democrat on the House education committee, said the department should recover the payments.
 ''We must be vigilant about ensuring that available tax dollars are used to provide affordable college loans to families, not to provide excessive subsidies to banks,'' he said. 
 Michael Dannenberg, director of education policy at the New America Foundation, a nonpartisan public policy research institute in Washington, said, ''When a student loan company like Nelnet rips off taxpayers on college loans, students and families end up with less'' financial aid. 
 Congress tried to eliminate the 9.5 percent guarantee in the early 1990's, but some lenders were allowed to keep collecting the higher interest rates. 
 ''This is a typical story of a complicated program hidden from the scrutiny of taxpayers who are getting ripped off,'' said Luke Swarthout, higher education advocate at U.S. Public Interest Research Group in Washington. ''To really solve this problem requires the Department of Education to stop payment on these illicit 9.5 percent loans and to demand repayment for subsidies that were wrongly charged.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (92%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (87%); PERSONAL FINANCE (86%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (66%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (61%) Colleges and Universities; Student Loans; Interest Rates; Colleges and Universities

COMPANY: NELNET INC (94%)

ORGANIZATION: Nelnet (Co); Education Department (US)

TICKER: NNI (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (94%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (94%)

PERSON: GEORGE MILLER (US REPRESENTATIVE) (58%); MICHAEL S DUNLAP (56%) Jonathan D Glater

GEOGRAPHIC: LINCOLN, NE, USA (90%) NEBRASKA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006



87 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: North Koreans Say They Plan A Nuclear Test

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER; Choe Sang-Hun contributed reporting from Seoul, South Korea; Martin Fackler from Tokyo; and Philip Shenon from Cairo.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 3 

 BODY:
North Korea announced Tuesday that it intended to conduct its first nuclear test, prompting warnings from Tokyo to Washington that an underground explosion would lead to a sharp response and could undermine the security balance in Asia.
 North Korea did not say when it would try to test a weapon, and experts inside and outside the Bush administration said the announcement itself was a negotiating ploy, intended to force the White House into lifting economic sanctions and holding one-on-one talks with North Korea.
 American intelligence officials said they saw no signs that a test was imminent. But they cautioned that two weeks ago, American officials who had reviewed recent intelligence reports said American spy satellites had picked up evidence of indeterminate activity around what is thought to be North Korea's main test site. It was unclear to them whether the activity was part of plans for a test, or perhaps a feint related to last month's visit to Washington by President Roh Moo-hyun of South Korea. 
 At that meeting, Mr. Bush and Mr. Roh discussed the possibility of a test, and Mr. Roh said the event would ''change the nature'' of South Korea's policy of economic engagement with the North, Mr. Roh told Americans he met afterward. 
 But the two leaders did not appear to have a coordinated strategy, and a senior Asian diplomat in Washington said Tuesday that ''no one is quite sure how to respond'' if the North conducted a test in the near future.
 In public, the Bush administration's response was muted and left the American response as unclear as the North Korean threat. 
 North Korea has long possessed plutonium fuel to manufacture nuclear weapons, and American intelligence agencies say they believe the country expanded its fuel stockpile in recent years so that it could now make roughly six to eight weapons, and perhaps more. That inventory was increased, North Korea says, after the eviction of international inspectors in early 2003, just as the Bush administration was focused on the invasion of Iraq. 
 North Korea claimed more than a year ago that it possessed a ''nuclear deterrent,'' but the absence of a test has created a diplomatic ambiguity, allowing China to raise doubts about how far the country had progressed, and giving Washington room after President Bush's declaration in his first term that he would never ''tolerate'' a nuclear-armed North Korea.
 It is unclear whether the North Koreans have determined that ambiguity is no longer in their interests. In a statement issued Tuesday, North Korea's Foreign Ministry said that ''the U.S. extreme threat of a nuclear war and sanctions and pressure compel the D.P.R.K. to conduct a nuclear test, an essential process for bolstering nuclear deterrent, as a self-defense measure in response.'' North Korea's official name is the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. 
 But earlier this month a North Korean general, Ri Chan-bok, told a visiting American expert, Selig S. Harrison, that no test was necessary.
 Mr. Harrison quoted General Ri as saying last week: ''If we have an underground test it could have radioactive leakage. These rumors are spread by U.S. agencies to smear us. I have never heard indications of a nuclear test in our government or armed forces.''
 In a statement, Frederick Jones, the National Security Council spokesman, said a test would ''severely undermine our confidence in North Korea's commitment to denuclearization'' and ''pose a threat to peace and security in Asia and the world.''
 ''A provocative action of this nature would only further isolate the North Korean regime and deny the people of the North the benefits offered to them'' in six-nation talks that have not reconvened in more than a year, the statement said.
 But behind closed doors the announcement touched off a flurry of meetings, as officials wrestled with uncertain intelligence, questions about whether China or South Korea could prevent a test and the possibility that a test could take place before the Congressional elections.
 The American statement did not draw the lines in the sand that marked the nuclear standoffs of the 1990's, when the Clinton administration began reinforcing American forces on the Korean Peninsula in response to a threat by the North to convert its supply of spent nuclear reactor fuel into bombs.
 But American officials, who declined to be named because they were not authorized to speak about North Korean policy, have recently said the administration assumes that sooner or later, North Korea will conduct a test. ''You could argue that it wouldn't be an all-bad thing,'' one administration hawk said, ''because it would finally unify the Chinese, and the Russians and the South Koreans,'' all of whom have been reluctant to pressure North Korea.
 Michael Green, who handled North Korea issues for the National Security Council until he left the White House last year, said, ''I think that the evidence has grown, especially with the missile launch, that North Korea has its own escalation ladder, and they would agree to postpone a test only for the right price.'' 
 Mr. Green said he thought it was unlikely that North Korea's price would be met, and he said he thought the North had ''calculated that they can take the heat from China and Japan, and they are not losing much from South Korea anyway.'' 
 In Tokyo, North Korea's sudden announcement was the first international test for Japan's new prime minister, Shinzo Abe, a nationalist who has vowed to make security a top priority. Mr. Abe warned North Korea against the test in stern terms rarely heard in the cautious language of Japanese diplomacy.
 ''Japan and the world absolutely will not tolerate a nuclear test,'' he told reporters, in a statement worded more sharply than the Bush administration's. ''The international community would respond harshly.''
 [On Wednesday, China urged North Korea to ''exercise necessary calm and restraint,'' a Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman, Liu Jianchao, said in a statement reported by Reuters from Beijing. But he also warned other countries to ''peacefully resolve their mutual concerns through dialogue'' and ''not take actions that escalate tensions.'']
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice told reporters in Cairo, where she met with several Arab counterparts on regional issues, including Iran's nuclear program, that the announcement was disturbing and that a nuclear test would be ''a very provocative act by the North Koreans.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A television in a train station in Seoul, South Korea, with news of North Korea's announcement yesterday. (Photo by Kim Kyung-Hoon/Reuters)(pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); ESPIONAGE (75%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); IRAQ WAR (66%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (63%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (54%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Tests and Testing; Nuclear Tests

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) George W (Pres) Bush; David E Sanger

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (70%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); ASIA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); JAPAN (73%) North Korea; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Japan; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006



88 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Japan Leader's First Diplomatic Bow Is to Asian Neighbors

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 3 

 BODY:
The newly installed administration of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is moving rapidly to improve estranged relations with his nation's closest Asian neighbors, China and South Korea.
 [The Japanese prime minister will visit Beijing on Sunday, where he will meet with President Hu Jintao and Premier Wen Jiabao, the government announced Wednesday, according to Reuters. He will then fly to South Korea to meet President Roh Moo-hyun on Monday.]
The trip constitutes an early diplomatic victory for the new prime minister, who assumed office on Sept. 26. 
 Both China and South Korea had refused such summit meetings with Mr. Abe's predecessor, Junichiro Koizumi, in anger over his annual visits to a Tokyo shrine honoring Japan's war dead, including convicted war criminals from World War II. Mr. Abe has refused to say whether he will visit the shrine, called Yasukuni. 
 By making such an overseas trip so early in his tenure, Mr. Abe apparently will also be trying to allay concerns that his more assertive brand of nationalism and hawkish stance on defense would further damage ties with Asian neighbors. 
 These concerns were widespread not only in Japan, which is economically dependent on Asia, but also in the United States, where the growing isolation of Japan, Washington's most important ally in the region, is viewed as a diplomatic liability.
 ''Mr. Abe wants a quick, diplomatic breakthrough,'' said Koji Murata, a professor of international relations at Doshisha University in Kyoto. ''He wants to show that Japan is not just stubbornly refusing to talk with the rest of Asia.''
 The last time a Japanese prime minister officially met with a Chinese president was five years ago. Mr. Koizumi last met with Mr. Roh in June of last year.
 Mr. Murata and other foreign policy experts said they expected that little concrete would come out of the summit meetings. But they saw plenty of symbolic importance, particularly in the fact that Mr. Abe is proposing to visit the two Asian countries even before heading to the United States, which defends Japan and remains a huge market for its cars and electronics.
 In the past, many Japanese prime ministers had felt obligated to pay their respects in Washington before traveling elsewhere. By heading straight to Asia, Mr. Abe is signaling both his confidence in the stability of American diplomatic ties and his desire for Japan to be treated as an equal partner, foreign policy experts said.
 Since before his inauguration, there have been widespread concerns that Mr. Abe's pledges to arm Japan and raise its international profile would further chill Asian ties. 
 Such talk has fed Asian fears that Japan is swinging to the right, as the country debates revising its pacifist Constitution and has rewritten textbooks to gloss over wartime atrocities.
 Sensitivities are particularly acute in China and South Korea, where memories are still raw of Japan's sometimes brutal wartime expansion.
 But Mr. Abe has also promised to improve relations with both countries, as well as with Russia. In recent speeches, he has seemed to play down such flash points as continuing territorial disputes involving Tokyo and all three countries, including a potentially volatile spat over the Chinese drilling of natural gas in disputed waters in the East China Sea.
 ''Japan is part of Asia,'' Mr. Abe told reporters Monday night. ''I want to make a strong start for this administration.'' 
 Negotiations for the visit appeared to begin almost as soon as Mr. Abe took office last week. 
 News reports said he had agreed to Beijing's demands that he adhere to apologies for the war made to the Chinese in 1995 by the prime minister at the time, Tomiichi Murayama, a Socialist.
 Another sticking point has been China's insistence that Mr. Abe make clear his position on visits to Yasukuni, something he carefully avoided while seeking the prime minister's job.
 Mr. Abe still refuses to state clearly whether he will go to Yasukuni, which has won him criticism at home. ''It's an ambiguous tactic that could end up hurting ties with China and South Korea,'' Yukio Hatoyama, a top opposition lawmaker, said Monday in Parliament. ''This is just a repeat of previous Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will meet with the leaders of China and South Korea next week. (Photo by Issei Kato/Reuters )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (93%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); WORLD WAR II (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); WAR CRIMES (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); POLITICS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); TEXTBOOKS (69%) Politics and Government; World War II (1939-45); Monuments and Memorials 

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (93%); HU JINTAO (72%); WEN JIABAO (58%) Shinzo (Prime Min) Abe; Martin Fackler; junichiro koizumi

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) JAPAN (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%) Japan; China; South Korea

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006



89 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Iran's Proposal to End Nuclear Standoff Is Rejected by the West

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO; Philip Shenon contributed reporting from Cairo.

DATELINE: PARIS, Oct. 3 

 BODY:
Iran has proposed that France organize and monitor the production of enriched uranium inside Iran, complicating negotiations over the fate of its nuclear program. 
 The United States, France and Britain rejected the proposal on Tuesday, saying it was a stalling tactic and fell far short of the United Nations Security Council's demand that Iran freeze all uranium enrichment and reprocessing activities.
The proposal, made by Mohammad Saeidi, the deputy director of the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran, was presented as a sign of flexibility in negotiations between Iran and six world powers represented by the European Union. 
 ''In order to reach a solution, we've just had an idea: we propose that France create a consortium for the production in Iran of enriched uranium,'' Mr. Saeidi said in an interview in Tehran with France Info radio that was broadcast Tuesday.
 A senior French official on Tuesday said: ''This is totally excluded. There is nothing substantive behind it. This is not the first time the Iranians have tried to divide the international community.''
 Another senior European official -- who, like the first, spoke on condition of anonymity under diplomatic rules -- said that proposal ''seemed to have the intention of distracting.'' 
 The United States, meanwhile, is giving Iran until the end of the week to declare whether it will agree to fully stop making enriched uranium or face sanctions. Enriched uranium can be used to make energy or to fuel weapons, and Washington has consistently taken the position that any uranium enrichment on Iranian soil is out of the question because it could give Iran the ability to master the nuclear fuel cycle. 
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and the foreign ministers of the other five governments involved in the negotiations with Iran -- Britain, France, Russia, China and Germany -- have discussed the possibility of meeting in London on Friday to plot a strategy for the next steps, officials said. 
 While at a meeting of Arab foreign ministers in Cairo on Tuesday, Ms. Rice told reporters that there was nothing new in the Iranian proposal, and that it continued to fall far short of international demands.
 ''The Iranians have floated it before,'' she said, suggesting that the United States would reject any proposal that allowed Iran to enrich and reprocess uranium on its own soil. ''This may be a stalling technique.''
 The Iranian proposal, which has been rejected by Iran's negotiating partners in the past, comes as Iran has hardened its position in negotiations between Ali Larijani, its chief nuclear negotiator, and Javier Solana, the European Union foreign policy chief. 
 Mr. Solana reported to the six governments in recent days that Mr. Larijani rejected the calls to halt key nuclear activities even though Iran could face sanctions by the Security Council, three senior European officials said. 
 Instead, in meetings in Berlin with Mr. Solana last week, Mr. Larijani floated the idea of the creation of an international consortium to administer Iran's production of enriched uranium. He did not mention France as the central player, the officials said. 
 In what was widely perceived as a stalling tactic, Mr. Larijani also spent much of his time in recent conversations with Mr. Solana, airing Iran's historical grievances against the rest of the world.
 Specifically, Mr. Larijani told Mr. Solana that Iran's current enrichment activities would have to continue, and that Iran would consider only a temporary halt to the expansion of its uranium enrichment program, the officials added. 
 The six powers, through Mr. Solana, had been trying to persuade the Iranians to accept a three-month halt on all uranium enrichment activities at their vast plant at Natanz and on construction at the plutonium plant at Arak, the European officials said. Uranium conversion, an earlier stage of processing, would have been allowed to continue at the Isfahan plant. 
 These officials also spoke on condition of anonymity under normal rules of diplomacy.
 There is also increasing frustration among European governments with Mr. Solana for presenting the results of his talks in too positive a light, several European officials said. 
 Mr. Solana has acknowledged the lack of progress on substantive issues, telling reporters in Finland on Monday, ''The fundamental matter of suspension has not been agreed.'' But he has repeatedly pointed to ''progress'' on peripheral issues, like where and when further negotiations with the six governments would take place. 
 On Tuesday, Mr. Solana appeared to keep the door open to Iran's new proposal, describing it as ''interesting,'' and adding, ''This is something we have to analyze in greater detail.''
 In the radio interview, Mr. Saeidi proposed that Iran's uranium enrichment activities would be monitored ''in a tangible way'' by Eurodif, a multinational enrichment consortium based in France, and by Areva, the France-based nuclear energy giant and majority shareholder in Eurodif. 
 Eighty-seven percent of Areva is held by French governmental institutions, and the company has vast interests in the United States ($1.8 billion in earnings in America in 2005) that it may not want to jeopardize by seeming to negotiate with Iran. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%) European Union

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (89%); JAVIER SOLANA (78%); ALI LARIJANI (78%) Javier Solana; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice; Ali Larijani; Elaine Sciolino

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); FRANCE (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); IRAN (79%); EGYPT (79%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (79%) Iran; France; Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006



90 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-12

North Korea Announces Plans for Nuclear Test
North Korea announced that it intends to conduct its first nuclear test, prompting warnings from Tokyo to Washington that an underground explosion would lead to a sharp response and could undermine the security balance in Asia. A1

Chinese Leaders Tighten Grip 

An anticorruption investigation that detained Shanghai's powerful party boss last week may be part of a wider move by the two most powerful Chinese officials to shuffle the leadership and wipe out resistance to their policy agenda, party officials and analysts said. A1

A group of foreign academics and human rights activists sent a letter to President Hu Jintao urging him to ''reverse a worsening crackdown on voices of dissent'' in China. A10

Japan Approaches Neighbors
The newly installed administration of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is moving to improve estranged relations with Japan's closest Asian neighbors, China and South Korea. A3

8 G.I.'s Killed in Baghdad
Eight American soldiers were killed in Baghdad, the United States military said, the most in the capital in one day since July 2005. A12

Iran Wants France as Monitor
Iran has proposed that France monitor the production of enriched uranium inside Iran, a move immediately rejected as a stalling tactic by Western powers. A6

Rice Calls for Palestinian Calm
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice called for an end to a wave of bloodshed between Palestinian factions as she prepared to travel to the West Bank to try to bolster the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas. A8

Turkish Man Hijacks Plane
A Turkish Airlines jet was hijacked by at least one unarmed Turkish man, apparently a convert to Christianity who wanted to communicate with Pope Benedict XVI, Turkish and Italian officials said. All 107 passengers and 5 crew members walked out of the plane unharmed. A6

Russia-Georgia Split Worsens
Diplomatic tensions between Russia and Georgia worsened significantly as Russian officials vowed to impose indefinite economic sanctions on their southern neighbor. A5

Brazil Detains American Pilots
A Brazilian judge ordered the police to confiscate the passports of the two American pilots who were at the controls of the business jet that apparently collided with an airliner last Friday. The airliner crashed, killing all 155 people aboard, but the business jet was able to land safely. A12

OBITUARIES A29

Helen P. Chenoweth-Hage
A former United States representative from Idaho, an archconservative who ridiculed the Endangered Species Act and called for disbanding large parts of the federal government, she was 68. A29

NATIONAL A16-28

Bush Supports Hastert In Wake of Foley Scandal
Speaker J. Dennis Hastert opened an intense drive to hold on to his post, winning calibrated support from President Bush as wary members of his party sought to gauge what steps would be needed to deal with the scandal surrounding former Representative Mark Foley. A1

Mr. Foley's lawyer said that, as a teenager, his client had been molested by a clergyman and had ''kept the shame to himself'' until now. He also acknowledged publicly for the first time that Mr. Foley is gay. A26

Nurses Exempt From Unions
The National Labor Relations Board issued a ruling that will exempt registered nurses from union membership if they have certain kinds of supervisory duties. A16

Miami Publisher Resigns
The publisher of The Miami Herald and El Nuevo Herald resigned, saying he had lost control of his newsrooms over a growing controversy involving payments from the Bush administration for their commentary broadcast on the anti-Castro outlets, Radio and TV Marti. A16

Winners of Nobel Physics Prize
Two American astronomers who uncovered evidence on the origin of the universe and how it grew into galaxies were awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics. A18

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Bloomberg to Take Over 9/11 Memorial Foundation
Mayor Bloomberg, one of the sharpest critics of the planning and fund-raising for the 9/11 memorial at ground zero, would take over the World Trade Center Memorial Foundation as chairman under an arrangement brokered by members of its board, government officials and board members announced. A1

SPORTSWEDNESDAY D1-7

Yankees Win First Playoff Game
Derek Jeter led the Yankees to an 8-4 victory over the Detroit Tigers in the team's opening playoff game. Jeter tied a postseason record for hits in a game, going 5 for 5 and capping his night with a home run. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Dow Reaches Record High
The Dow Jones industrial average of 30 major stocks rose 0.49 percent to squeak past an all-time closing high that was set in January 2000. A1

Airbus Jet Delayed Again
The first deliveries of the troubled A380 superjumbo jet by Airbus have been delayed yet again, this time by as much as another year. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A30-31

Editorials: Woulda, coulda, shoulda?; an African dumping ground; Bayer's duplicity on drug safety; a better diesel.
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E2
Weather D8
TV Listings E11

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (86%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); CORRUPTION (76%); SCANDALS (76%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (73%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (72%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); HIJACKING (69%); ARMED FORCES (67%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (63%); RELIGION (63%); HUMAN RIGHTS (55%); WAR & CONFLICT (53%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (50%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (50%); JUDGES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (79%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (72%); HU JINTAO (71%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%); POPE BENEDICT XVI (50%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) EAST CHINA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); BRAZIL (92%); ASIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); TURKEY (92%); GEORGIA (92%); IRAQ (90%); FRANCE (87%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ITALY (53%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006



91 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1583 words

HEADLINE: Corzine's Crew Of 4 Recruits: Old School Ties At Goldman 

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

DATELINE: TRENTON, Oct. 3 

 BODY:
They did not have any government experience. They did not have any political connections. And one, who spent most of his working life in Manhattan and Hong Kong, did not even have a New Jersey address.
 When the three political novices were selected by Gov. Jon S. Corzine earlier this year to fill some of New Jersey's most important cabinet-level positions, what they did have was the experience of working at Goldman Sachs when Mr. Corzine was co-chairman of the investment firm in the 1990's.
One, Gary D. Rose, is the architect of Mr. Corzine's blueprint to expand the state's business strategy, and a major participant in Mr. Corzine's new initiative, announced last week, to make independent governmental authorities more accountable. Another, Barry L. Zubrow, played a crucial role last month in urging the Legislature to approve $3.25 billion for school construction projects. And during the budget stalemate this summer, it was Bradley I. Abelow who impressed lawmakers with his calm attempt to map out the state's long-range fiscal problems.
 These Goldman Sachs alumni are far from being blind loyalists who latch onto those above them on the corporate ladder; while they were at the firm, they were actually aligned with Mr. Corzine's archrival, Henry M. Paulson Jr., a Republican who is now the federal treasury secretary. 
 ''They aren't necessarily Corzine people -- they weren't necessarily brought up by him at the firm -- but Corzine has always sought out quality as opposed to who was in somebody's tribe,'' said Philip D. Murphy, a former partner at Goldman Sachs who is now finance chairman of the Democratic National Committee.
 In many ways, their past on Wall Street and their presence in the State House provides a window into how Mr. Corzine makes important decisions and what he prizes most in governing. The three are investment bankers by training, as opposed to their boss's roots as a bond trader, but they share his belief in the primacy of numbers, data analysis and long-term planning. They appear to be detail-oriented managers focused mostly on policy, not politics, and are accustomed to quick action.
 At first, their status as outsiders, coupled with their Ivy League pedigrees, sowed resentment among some officials here.
 ''Some people were given the impression that these were city slickers and everyone else was a country bumpkin, so they had this attitude of, 'Who are these people coming in from Wall Street thinking they know everything?' '' said one senior administration official who spoke on condition of anonymity. ''It was certainly prevalent in the early days of the administration, but I think it's subsiding.''
 In fact, they have worked hard to try to acclimate themselves to New Jersey's unusual political culture.
 ''I think they're going through the same thing that I went through four years ago,'' said Andrew M. Alper, a former Goldman Sachs partner who was chosen in 2002 by another businessman-turned-politician, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, to be president of the New York City Economic Development Corporation. ''In the private sector, A to B is more of a straight line, and people are motivated by economics, or economic rationale. In politics, people can often block something because they want something else, and that's the kind of three-dimensional chess that takes a while to get used to.''
 Goldman Sachs has long been a training ground for top executives before they go into public service after attaining financial security, often to the highest ranks: Robert E. Rubin, treasury secretary under President Bill Clinton; John C. Whitehead, the former chairman of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation; Stephen Friedman, the former director of the National Economic Council; and Joshua B. Bolten, President Bush's current chief of staff, all worked at Goldman first.
 The Corzine crew, until this year, mainly expressed their political preferences with their checkbooks, donating a combined $250,000 to political candidates since 2002, mostly to Democrats in other states. Mr. Zubrow has been especially active in New Jersey, giving more than $56,000 to Democratic candidates or organizations since 2001.
 When their former colleague articulated what he hoped would be a fiscally responsible and socially progressive agenda as governor of New Jersey, Mr. Zubrow (who had been the firm's chief administrative officer), Mr. Rose (who had worked on some of the firm's biggest accounts, like Ford and United Technologies) and Mr. Abelow (who for a time was in Hong Kong for the firm and then headed its operations division) -- all multimillionaires -- agreed to come out of retirement to work for Mr. Corzine.
 Mr. Abelow, 48, is the state treasurer, and is responsible for collecting taxes, budgeting and spending money and issuing debt. Mr. Rose, 61, directs the Office of Economic Growth, which was created by Mr. Corzine to oversee economic development. Mr. Zubrow, 53, is chairman of the Schools Construction Corporation, which is responsible for building court-ordered schools, primarily in the poorest districts. A fourth Goldman emigre, Nancy B. Feldman, 46, who did not know Mr. Corzine while at the firm, is director of the Office of Public Finance. 
 ''We're all here because of what the governor is trying to do,'' Mr. Zubrow, a New Vernon resident, said during an interview this summer in Mr. Abelow's office with all four Goldman colleagues. ''Not only do we have great confidence in his ability to be successful, at this very special point in time in New Jersey's history, we're really at a point of reflection where the state can dramatically change.''
 In the interview, they echoed what Mr. Corzine has long said about an approach that may seem more mundane than magical: gather all the facts, solicit opinion and ideas and arrive at a consensus.
 ''We are not so smart as to think we know all the right answers to all the questions,'' said Mr. Abelow, who moved from the Upper West Side to Montclair this summer because of residency requirements for cabinet officials.
 Whether they succeed, they said, depends on the quality of the information they receive, as well as having enough time.
 ''One thing about running Goldman Sachs is that most areas are working fairly successfully,'' said Noreen Harrington, who used to run Goldman's global hedge fund business and is now a managing partner of another firm, Alternative Institutional Partners. ''But there are a lot of things that are broken in New Jersey, and that's a tougher task.''
 Legislators and lobbyists here say the former Goldman people are less partisan than typical appointees, and they often use words like ''refreshing'' and ''open-minded'' to describe them. State Senator William L. Gormley, a Republican from Atlantic County, said dealing with them on the budget and on the economic growth plan was akin to watching people prepare a business prospectus rather than a political document. 
 ''They're not like an insecure politician who's failed at another career,'' Mr. Gormley said. ''They're long-term thinkers, and they're not driven by that week's press release -- that's just not their style. It might be boring, but it's substantive.''
 Others have a more qualified view.
 Senate President Richard J. Codey, for instance, said he was a bit wary of Mr. Rose, the head of the Office of Economic Growth, who has taken on issues from negotiating a new stadium deal with the Jets and Giants to the fate of the troubled entertainment complex rising in the Meadowlands and the failed utilities merger between Public Service Enterprise Group and Exelon Corporation. Mr. Rose's responsibilities expanded even more last week, when Mr. Corzine signed an executive order requiring New Jersey's quasi-independent authorities to submit their capital plans to Mr. Rose's office.
 ''He has a portfolio of everything, he can go wherever he wants, he's like the governor-in-waiting,'' Mr. Codey said. ''Nobody knows who he is, or where he gets his clout from, but he's able to facilitate policy matters that are very significant without being elected or airing them in public, and that's very powerful.''
 Labor unions remain skittish about the administration's plan to shift about a quarter of the state's $72 billion pension fund from the control of state employees to private money managers, especially in light of the recent collapse of the Amaranth Advisors, a hedge fund, which cost New Jersey $16 million. While labor officials say that they have found Mr. Abelow to be forthright and gentlemanly, they are troubled that Goldman Sachs is handling $450 million in alternative investments, which could include hedge funds, real estate and nontraded stocks known as private equities. 
 ''The fact that we're dealing with all these Goldman people -- there's a certain discomfort level,'' said Joseph A. Golowski, a retired state auditor who is a consultant to the Communications Workers of America. ''It allows a shadow to be put in there.''
 For their part, the former Goldman officials say they have no intention of following the common practice of parlaying their positions into high-paying lobbying or government jobs after they leave the State House.
 ''This is my shot at it, and I hope that I help to contribute to something that's bigger than me,'' said Mr. Rose, who, like Mr. Corzine, is accepting a token salary of $1 a year. ''It's not like I'm going to go out into the private sector, and make money off of this. I'm going to disappear.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left: Gary D. Rose runs the Office of Economic Growth, Bradley I. Abelow is state treasurer, Nancy B. Feldman runs the Office of Public Finance, and Barry L. Zubrow runs the Schools Construction Corporation. (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); BONDS (75%); COMPANY STRATEGY (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); APPROVALS (69%) Cabinets and Sub-Cabinets; Appointments and Executive Changes; Biographical Information

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs & Co

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (79%); HENRY PAULSON (58%) David W Chen; Jon S (Gov) Corzine; Barry L Zubrow; Bradley I Abelow; Gary D Rose; Nancy B Feldman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006



92 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: Making a Profit And a Difference

BYLINE: By GLENN RIFKIN

 BODY:
When the architect and urban redeveloper Guy L. Bazzani moved from Northern California to Grand Rapids, Mich., more than a decade ago, he didn't expect his ideas about socially responsible, environmentally healthy business to be embraced right away. Local companies had suffered enough economic hardship without the added burden of such ideologies. 
 Still, after Mr. Bazzani set up shop as Bazzani Associates in 1994, he gradually persuaded the community of the economic soundness of his green business practices. The firm, which specializes in restoring old buildings, uses techniques and tools including green roofs that are covered with plants, storm water management systems and environmentally friendly building materials.
''We found that we can build green buildings that utilize 40 percent to 50 percent less energy at the same price as traditional buildings,'' Mr. Bazzani, a Michigan native, said. ''When I came back here I thought I'd stay a couple of years and return to California. But my green business took off. When people come to me, I'm their first choice, a locally owned business that can produce at value.'' 
 If this Rust Belt city of 280,000 is any barometer, small, local businesses are inclined to embrace social responsibility and will promote environmental health. In three years since Mr. Bazzani, 51, founded an organization called Local First, more than 250 independent businesses in Grand Rapids have come on board.
 ''Lots of people have lived here all their lives,'' Mr. Bazzani said. ''When you have a generational community like this, there is a lot of natural social responsibility. You don't have to call it that. But people just love the community and they'd rather buy a product from someone they know.''
 As it turns out, Grand Rapids is not alone. Local First is just one of 35 similar business networks around the United States and Canada that have sprung out of the Business Alliance for Local Living Economies, or Balle, a nonprofit organization founded in 2001 by two successful small-business owners in Boston and Philadelphia. The networks, in major metropolitan areas and smaller cities, represent more than 11,000 local, independent businesses. The group promotes the notion of the ''triple bottom line,'' the concept that local businesses can simultaneously be profitable and foster social and environmental consciousness. 
 Laury Hammel, the owner of a group of health clubs in the Boston area, and a Balle co-founder, says the organization includes serious business people of all political persuasions who are seeking to fend off the effects of the big discount chains and globalization. 
 ''We wanted to be a force to make businesses become positive role models,'' Mr. Hammel said. 
 Most important, Mr. Hammel says, is the face-to-face connection that customers experience by shopping locally. In an increasingly technological world, people yearn for this connection because they feel they are losing the cultural, spiritual and human element of their lives. ''Studies show that when you go to a farmers' market, you have 100 times the number of conversations you have in a grocery store,'' Mr. Hammel said. ''We think local is one of the most important words in the English language.''
 When Judy Wicks, Balle's other co-founder, opened the White Dog Cafe, a popular Philadelphia restaurant, 24 years ago, she realized that she had to spend so much time making her restaurant work that the only way to be socially active was through her business. The White Dog became known for buying its electricity from wind power and for purchasing its produce from local organic farmers and its meat, poultry and fish from producers that practiced humane treatment of animals. 
 ''Profit is a tool,'' she said. ''The major purpose of business is to serve.'' She decided early on to open up the restaurant as an educational forum with guest speakers and to share ideas with her competitors. ''We do well by doing good because we're known to do the right thing and people appreciate that,'' she says. ''Our customers and employees share our values and come here for a sense of community, for a chance to be aligned with something greater than themselves.''
 Though such practices tend to be more expensive, the movement is rapidly gaining believers.
 ''I'm surprised how much this has grown in the past year or so,'' said James Post, professor of management at Boston University. ''The question is whether you can serve an economic master and have these other values at the same time. The answer is yes; the triple-bottom-line notion is taking root.''
 In Bellingham, Wash., a city of 80,000 near the Canadian border, Sustainable Connections, the local Balle network, has grown to more than 500 members in just four years from 12 original local business owners. ''There's a 'buy local' culture here,'' said Michelle Long, the organization's executive director.
 One significant byproduct of the effort is that Bellingham retains its commercial uniqueness as a community of small businesses instead of chain stores, Ms. Long said. ''If you retain these one-of-a-kind businesses, it's not like Anyplace, U.S.A.,'' she said. 
 Some urban entrepreneurs like Glynn Lloyd, chief executive of City Fresh Foods in the Dorchester section of Boston, have found the triple-bottom-line quest tougher going. In inner-city neighborhoods, he says, it is difficult for local businesses to get traction. Shoppers, long ignored by developers and big national chains, are pleased to see Home Depot and Starbucks come to the area. 
 Nonetheless, Balle contends that growing evidence supports the theory that buying local is better for the community. One study in Austin, Tex., by Civic Economics, a strategic planning consulting firm, compared the impact of a Borders bookstore and two local independent bookstores. They found that for $100 spent at Borders, just $13 stayed in the local economy, while $100 spent in a local bookstore put $45 back into the local economy. 
 Balle is intent on reshaping public policy, which it feels is biased against local small businesses. Michael H. Shuman, a Balle consultant and author of ''The Small-Mart Revolution: How Local Businesses Are Beating the Global Competition,'' says that economic development efforts that stress ''attraction and retention" are all about offering tax incentives to big companies.
 What's more, he says, mounting evidence suggests that these incentives have questionable payback for a local economy, often failing to produce either jobs or sustained economic health. ''Attraction and retention is not focused on locally owned business or existing local entrepreneurs,'' Mr. Shuman said. ''It almost assumes that indigenous people do not have the capacity to create these businesses, so we must go outside of the community to bring them in. This kind of bias needs to be eliminated.'' 
 One way to promote change is to illuminate the sustainability issue for a new generation of consumers, something Don Shaffer, 37, is doing in Oakland, Calif. His company, Comet Skateboards, uses only ecologically safe materials like water-based coatings and sustainable woods like bamboo. And his target audience -- teenage boys -- is responding. Sales on a percentage basis have quadrupled in three years. 
 ''The biggest driver is our commitment to sustainability,'' Mr. Shaffer said. ''Skaters get a bad rap for being extremely anti-authority but they are critical thinkers and they have a growing awareness of climate change, peak oil and what it means for them. They are voting with their dollars.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Guy L. Bazzani, on the environmentally friendly roof of his building restoration firm in Grand Rapids, Mich. (Photo by Adam Bird for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREEN BUILDING (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (73%); CITIES (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (66%); GLOBALIZATION (61%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (55%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (50%) Small Business

ORGANIZATION: Business Alliance for Local Living Economies

PERSON: Glenn Rifkin

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Canada

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006



93 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Poor U.S. Scores in Health Care Don't Measure Nobels and Innovation 

BYLINE: By Tyler Cowen. 
Tyler Cowen is a professor of economics at George Mason University and co-writer of a blog at www.marginalrevolution.com. He can be reached at tcowen@gmu.edu.

 BODY:
Advocates of national health insurance cite an apparently devastating fact: the United States spends more of its gross domestic product on medical care than any nation in the world, yet Americans do not live longer than Western Europeans or Japanese. More Americans lack insurance coverage as well. It is no wonder that so many people demand reform. 
 But the American health care system may be performing better than it seems at first glance. When it comes to medical innovation, the United States is the world leader. In the last 10 years, for instance, 12 Nobel Prizes in medicine have gone to American-born scientists working in the United States, 3 have gone to foreign-born scientists working in the United States, and just 7 have gone to researchers outside the country. 
The six most important medical innovations of the last 25 years, according to a 2001 poll of physicians, were magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography (CT scan); ACE inhibitors, used in the treatment of hypertension and congestive heart failure; balloon angioplasty; statins to lower cholesterol levels; mammography; and coronary artery bypass grafts. Balloon angioplasty came from Europe, four innovations on the list were developed in American hospitals or by American companies (although statins were based on earlier Japanese research), and mammography was first developed in Germany and then improved in the United States. Even when the initial research is done overseas, the American system leads in converting new ideas into workable commercial technologies. 
 In real terms, spending on American biomedical research has doubled since 1994. By 2003, spending was up to $94.3 billion (there is no comparable number for Europe), with 57 percent of that coming from private industry. The National Institutes of Health's current annual research budget is $28 billion, All European Union governments, in contrast, spent $3.7 billion in 2000, and since that time, Europe has not narrowed the research and development gap. America spends more on research and development over all and on drugs in particular, even though the United States has a smaller population than the core European Union countries. From 1989 to 2002, four times as much money was invested in private biotechnology companies in America than in Europe. 
 Dr. Thomas Boehm of Jerini, a biomedical research company in Berlin, titled his article in The Journal of Medical Marketing in 2005 ''How Can We Explain the American Dominance in Biomedical Research and Development?'' (ostina.org/downloads/pdfs/bridgesvol7--BoehmArticle.pdf) Dr. Boehm argues that the research environment in the United States, compared with Europe, is wealthier, more competitive, more meritocratic and more tolerant of waste and chaos. He argues that these features lead to more medical discoveries. About 400,000 European researchers are living in the United States, usually for superior financial compensation and research facilities.
 This innovation-rich environment stems from the money spent on American health care and also from the richer and more competitive American universities. The American government could use its size, or use the law, to bargain down health care prices, as many European governments have done. In the short run, this would save money but in the longer run it would cost lives.
 Medical innovations improve health and life expectancy in all wealthy countries, not just in the United States. That is one reason American citizens do not live longer. Furthermore, the lucrative United States health care market enhances research and development abroad and not just at home.
 The gains from medical innovations are high. For instance, increases in life expectancy resulting from better treatment of cardiovascular disease from 1970 to 1990 have been conservatively estimated as bringing benefits worth more than $500 billion a year. And that is just for the United States. 
 The American system also produces benefits that are hard to find in the numbers. The economist Arnold Kling in his ''Crisis of Abundance: Rethinking How We Pay for Health Care'' (Cato Institute, 2006) (catostore.org/index.asp?fa=ProductDetails&method=cats&scid=37&pid=1441301) argues that the expected life span need increase by only about half a year for the extra American health care spending to be cost-effective over a 20-year period. Given that many Americans walk less and eat less healthy food than most Europeans, the longevity boost from health care in the United States may be real but swamped by the results of poor lifestyle choices. In the meantime, the extra money Americans spend to treat allergy symptoms, pain, depression and discomfort contributes to personal happiness.
 Compared with Europe, the American system involves more tests, more procedures and more visits with specialists. Sick people receive more momentary comforts and also the sense that everything possible has been done. This feeling is of value to the family even when the patient does not improve. In contrast, European countries have not created comparably high expectations about the medical process. If we count ''giving people what they would want, if they knew it was there'' as one measure of medical value, the American system looks better.
 American health care has many problems. Health insurance is linked too tightly to employment, and too many people cannot afford insurance. Insurance companies put too much energy into avoiding payments. Personal medical records are kept on paper rather than in accessible electronic fashion. Emergency rooms are not always well suited to serve as last-resort health care for the poor. Most fundamentally, the lack of good measures of health care quality makes it hard to identify and eliminate waste. 
 These problems should be addressed, but it would be hasty to conclude that the United States should move closer to European health care institutions. The American health care system, high expenditures and all, is driving innovation for the entire world. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (91%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (90%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CHOLESTEROL (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); BIOMEDICINE (89%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POPULATION DECLINE (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (75%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); HEART DISEASE (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (70%); HYPERTENSION (70%); MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING (68%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (62%) Medicine and Health; Inventions and Patents; Nobel Prizes; Health Insurance and Managed Care

PERSON: Tyler Cowen

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006



94 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Fiorina Pursued Leaks at H.P, Too 

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
The former Hewlett-Packard chief executive Carleton S. Fiorina, once the most prominent female executive in the United States, ordered the first of a series of leak investigations into contacts by board members with journalists in January 2005, she says in a long-anticipated memoir. 
 Ms. Fiorina was hired as chief executive in 1999 and led the company through a merger battle that family members of the company's founders and some directors bitterly resisted. She was fired in February 2005 when the resulting company failed to meet business goals.
Her book, ''Tough Choices'' (Portfolio Hardcover), which is embargoed for release on Tuesday and has been made available to reviewers only if they sign a nondisclosure agreement, was purchased at a bookstore yesterday by a reporter for The New York Times.
 In it, Ms. Fiorina reveals a good deal of resentment over her firing. She writes that after the board's final meeting on her fate, all but two members refused to confront her. And she indicates that she had little respect for some Hewlett-Packard directors, whom she described as amateurish and immature. 
 The timing of the book is coincidental to last month's disclosures of two leak investigations that took place after Ms. Fiorina's departure. She has not commented on the boardroom spying scandal that has rocked the company and resulted in felony charges and firings. 
 It was known that the company was concerned about boardroom leaks even before Ms. Fiorina's departure, but it was not known that she had authorized the initial investigation. 
 That investigation, Ms. Fiorina writes, was conducted directly by the company's outside legal counsel, Larry W. Sonsini, after an article in The Wall Street Journal detailed an impending corporate reorganization.
 The book makes no mention of questionable investigative methods like pretexting, which involves pretending to be someone else to obtain information from telephone company employees. Nor does the book say whether Ms. Fiorina directed Mr. Sonsini to spy on any individual reporter or director.
 She writes that Mr. Sonsini personally interviewed every board member. He reported back to Ms. Fiorina that Thomas J. Perkins, the prominent Silicon Valley venture capitalist who had previously served on the Hewlett-Packard board and would soon rejoin it, had been a source for the article. 
 Mr. Sonsini told her that Mr. Perkins had been ''honest enough to admit that he'd spoken to the press.'' 
 Ms. Fiorina added, however, that she was deeply suspicious of another board member, George A. Keyworth II, also known as Jay, because of his behavior at a board meeting and during a related board conference call.
 More than a year later, Mr. Keyworth acknowledged that he was a source for a reporter's article. That acknowledgment came after the company conducted two secret investigations into the activities of its board members, using private investigators who in turn made targets of the telephone records of nine reporters, including this reporter.
 Mr. Keyworth's lawyer, Reginald J. Brown, denied last night that Mr. Keyworth was the source of the news article that provoked the first leak investigation. 
 The former board chairwoman, Patricia C. Dunn, was not involved in the decision to begin the initial investigation, Ms. Fiorina wrote, because she was on vacation in Bali and was not aware of the events that led to the first leak. 
 The California attorney general brought a felony complaint against Ms. Dunn yesterday for her involvement in the two subsequent leak investigations. 
 The account of the initial leak investigation, which appears in the final chapter of the book, notes that in late January, Mr. Sonsini reported the results of his inquiry during a board telephone conference call.
 ''Although I appreciated Tom's candor,'' Ms. Fiorina wrote in referring to Mr. Perkins, ''I was deeply disturbed when no one else spoke up. As the call progressed, all but one board member asked questions or made comments.'' 
 That board member was Mr. Keyworth.
 Mr. Sonsini's report also described the board as ''dysfunctional.''
 ''Some board members' behavior was amateurish and immature,'' she wrote. ''Some didn't do their homework. Some had fixed opinions on certain topics and no opinion at all on others. Some members were bored and distracted during important agenda items like leadership development or corporate social responsibility.''
 Ms. Fiorina asserts that when the Hewlett-Packard board began to turn against her leadership, she was blindsided.
 ''I was mystified by the board's recent behavior,'' she wrote. ''I was suspicious of Jay's heated denial when the leak first occurred and then his complete silence on our last call.''
 The incident that would help lead to her firing was a visit paid to her by three Hewlett-Packard directors -- Richard A. Hackborn, Ms. Dunn and Mr. Keyworth -- two days before a board meeting in January 2005. 
 The three told her that they spoke on behalf of the entire board. They directed her to execute a far-reaching reorganization to convince Wall Street analysts that the company was moving to respond to inadequate financial growth and a lagging stock price.
 Ms. Fiorina said that at the meeting she believed that she was having a discussion with the board members and that they could not unilaterally order her to take the actions they were demanding. 
 She wrote that she resisted their orders and argued that the company should continue with an existing 2005 strategic plan.
 She described an especially intense and angry confrontation with Mr. Keyworth, who pressed her on immediately renominating Mr. Perkins to the board. 
 Earlier in the book, Ms. Fiorina writes about other conflicts with Mr. Keyworth. She describes how he proposed at times that Hewlett-Packard acquire a range of companies including A.M.D., Apple, TiVo and Veritas, and his impatience with her when she disagreed with his logic.
 She uses a portion of the book to defend her strategy and management in her five and a half years at Hewlett-Packard, making clear that she felt its subsequent resurgence had stemmed from changes on her watch.
 She also notes that in 2005, after her departure, the American economy recovered and the company went on to deliver over 20 percent growth in earnings per share. 
 She concludes her memoir by writing that 2005 was the payoff year she ''had been expecting.'' 
 ''H.P. performed magnificently and delivered the plan,'' she said, and ''the company's 2005 results finally demonstrated that H.P. had indeed been transformed.'' 
 She added a personal note: ''Life isn't always fair, and I was playing in the big leagues. Yet I realized I had no regrets.''
 Ms. Fiorina describes being asked to leave what would be a final February meeting in Chicago while board members discussed her fate. She reveals particular bitterness about her firing. 
 The book's opening paragraph states bluntly: ''In the end, the board did not have the courage to face me. They did not thank me and they did not say goodbye. They did not explain their decision or their reasoning. They did not seek my opinion or my involvement in any aspect of the transition.''
 After being asked to wait for three hours, none of the board members remained in the room when she returned to it, she wrote. She was greeted by Ms. Dunn, the new board chairwoman and the head of the board's governance committee, who asked her to announce publicly that the decision to step down had been her own. Ms. Fiorina wrote that she refused.
 Robert Anderson, a deputy in the California attorney general's office, would not comment yesterday when asked if Ms. Fiorina was under investigation.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Carleton S. Fiorina (Photo by Charles Krupa/Associated Press)(pg. C4)
 (Photo by Penguin Books, via Bloomberg News)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (89%); ESPIONAGE (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); INVESTIGATIVE SERVICES (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); WIRETAPPING (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); ETHICS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); SCANDALS (77%); LITERATURE (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (72%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (71%); BOOKSTORES (70%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (69%); FELONIES (64%); LAWYERS (63%); VENTURE CAPITAL (50%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (50%) Computers and the Internet; Books and Literature; Wiretapping and Other Eavesdropping Devices and Methods; Boards of Directors; News and News Media ; Ethics; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Hewlett-Packard Co

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: Carleton S Fiorina; John Markoff

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006



95 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: 2 More Signs of Slow Growth 

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
In further signs of a sluggish economy, orders to factories for manufactured goods were weak for a second month and activity in service industries was the slowest in more than three years. 
 The Commerce Department reported on Wednesday that new orders for manufactured goods stayed about the same in August at $403.6 billion, after a 1 percent plunge in demand in July. There were large declines in August in demand for computers and commercial aircraft.
A gauge of activity in the service sector fell last month to 52.9, from 57.0 a month earlier, according to the Institute for Supply Management. Though the institute says that any reading above 50 is positive, it was the poorest showing since April 2003 and far below expectations.
 Both reports supported the view that the economy was continuing to slow under the impact of weaker consumer spending and a cooling housing market.
 Many economists say that growth in the just-completed third quarter will not match the pace of 2.6 percent growth in the spring or, certainly, growth of 5.6 percent in the first quarter of the year.
 Brian Bethune of Global Insight in Lexington, Mass., said the economy probably expanded at a pace just under 2 percent from July through September, though he projected a rebound to about 2.5 percent in the final three months of 2006.
 Some analysts say that the recent price drop in gasoline and other energy products will help lift consumers' spirits during the holiday shopping season and keep the economy from falling into recession.
 The economic slowdown is expected to limit tendencies toward inflation and not induce the Federal Reserve's policy panel to again raise interest rates this year.
 Real estate and construction, hurt by the housing slowdown, reported declining activity in September.
 The level pace for factory orders in August was in line with expectations. But the Commerce Department revised its figure for July to a drop of 1 percent from its earlier estimate of a decline of 0.6 percent.


GRAPHIC: Graph ''Factory Orders'' tracks Manufacturers' total new orders, seasonally adjusted since 2005. (Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); SERVICE SECTOR OUTPUT (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RECESSION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING (73%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (71%); INTEREST RATES (63%) United States Economy; Factories and Industrial Plants; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (71%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%) Commerce Department; Institute for Supply Management

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006



96 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: Security Breaches Worry Outsourcing Industry

BYLINE: By SARITHA RAI

DATELINE: BANGALORE, India, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
India's outsourcing industry, flourishing with business from an expanding base of American and European customers, is facing greater criticism after a series of security breaches.
 On Thursday, a British television documentary scheduled on the independent Channel 4 will say that a 12-month investigation, with filmmakers' clips, had ''infiltrated criminal networks which trade British consumers' bank and other confidential information for huge profits in India, the world's call-center capital.'' 
Industry executives and officials at Nasscom, an Indian outsourcing industry trade group, say they are worried that the program, along with recent incidents of fraud, are damaging the country's reputation as a high-skilled, low-cost location. 
 India's outsourcing companies offer a range of financial back-office services to banks and credit card companies in the United States and elsewhere. They respond to calls on 24-hour service lines, helping customers make bill payments and register payment disputes. They also promote credit card and banking services and even help card companies recover debts, all at a fraction of the prices of Western rivals.
 Outsourcing has provoked objections in the United States, Britain and other advanced economies, where consumer groups and unions say it deprives local workers of jobs. 
 Executives in India suggest that recent exposes unfairly take aim at the outsourcing industry. Such reports in the past ''tried to crucify India's back-office industry,'' said Raman Roy, chairman of Quatrro BPO Solutions of New Delhi.
 India's $23.6 billion outsourcing industry has a lot at stake. It is growing at an annual pace exceeding 30 percent, and last year, services like call centers and online technology support made $6.3 billion. This year, that is forecast to grow to $8.5 billion.
 The Indian companies fear that Western clients will hesitate to outsource here if India is depicted as a market susceptible to scams.
 The industry's rapid growth is confronted by other challenges. Talent is harder to come by and employee turnover is rising, prompting some companies to hire workers without completing background checks. 
 The industry has suffered from a succession of security scandals. Last year, employees in the Pune, India, office of MphasiS were arrested after being accused of defrauding Citibank customers in New York of thousands of dollars, cajoling them into revealing their Internet passwords.
 Later, a tabloid, The Sun, reported that it was able to purchase confidential data on more than 1,000 Britons from an employee of an outsourcing company outside New Delhi. 
 Early in 2006, an employee of HSBC's call center in Bangalore was accused of selling customers' credit card details to people in Britain, who then skimmed thousands of pounds from the customers' accounts.
 Nasscom, seeking to play down such security lapses, said the record in India was much better than in the West. In a statement, it said: ''India is not immune but fraud here is limited. Less than 10 cases of security breaches have been reported so far.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OUTSOURCING (91%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); CALL CENTERS (89%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (88%); TECHNICAL SUPPORT (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (77%); SCANDALS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ARRESTS (71%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (63%) Labor

ORGANIZATION: Nasscom 

PERSON: Saritha Rai

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (76%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (59%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%) India; Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006



97 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 2; Thursday Styles; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Goes Well With Woman 

BYLINE: By RUTH LA FERLA

 BODY:
A generation ago, fashion indulged its subversive streak by all but retiring the dress, replacing that emblem of white-gloved propriety with a trouser suit. Now, in one of the industry's classic turnabouts, it is the dress that seems subversive, resurrected by designers as a playfully insolent badge of cool.
 In and around the tents of Bryant Park this month, when the spring collections were unveiled, New York tastemakers as disparate as Thakoon, Phillip Lim, Sabyasachi and Donna Karan thumbed a nose at suits and trousers, those enduring establishment uniforms, in favor of ballooning tents and breeze-catching trapeze dresses that recalled a gamine Mia Farrow. 
Fashion, it seems, has embraced a style last popular in Mom's day and, in the process, infused the dress business with a new vitality.
 ''Except for special-occasion pieces, the dress was dead in the water,'' said David Wolfe, the creative director of the Doneger Group, which forecasts fashion and retail trends. ''Now it's back, and it's booming.'' Dress sales from January through July 2006, totaling more than $3 billion, rose by about 9 percent over the same period a year ago, according to NPD Group, the market research firm.
 Buoyant as parachutes, the spring looks touching down on the runways did not arrive in a vacuum. Most were in fact interpretations of a trend already well entrenched as summer turned to fall. 
 ''This season dresses are everywhere,'' said Beth Buccini, an owner of Kirna Zabete in SoHo. ''It seems like the trend that won't die.'' For fall, dresses by Stella McCartney, Chloe and Alice Ritter have sold briskly, Ms. Buccini said.
 As early as a year ago, Phoebe Philo, then the designer at Chloe, set the pace when she issued her baby-doll dresses. The house continued in that spirit, adding draped and smocked versions for fall, many with the look of elongated tunics. Her peers were quick to fall into step. 
 Variations echo today at every level of the market. Bubble dresses have been showcased in the windows of Club Monaco, and more tailored versions make up a substantial portion of the business at H&M, said Jennifer Uglialoro, the fashion director for H&M in New York.
 Playful styles by Betsey Johnson, Anna Sui and Vivienne Tam are popular at Macy's, where dress sales are robust. Nicole Fischelis, the store's fashion director, predicted that demand would accelerate by spring, with the arrival of ''a whole dress wardrobe'' -- shirtdresses, lantern-shaped smocks, even ankle-length maxidresses. 
 AS late as the 1970's, Seventh Avenue was home to dozens of dress manufacturers, their wares housed in special sections of department stores. But around that time, a dearth of styles and sizes suitable for women entering the work force, as well as the dress's overly frothy image, all but killed off a once thriving business. Today the daytime dress department is extinct, but dresses, interspersed among the sportswear and designer looks, have returned in force. 
 Mr. Wolfe cited what he calls the sports dress as a particular success. He defined it as a casual look, ''a shirtwaist, shift or jumper, something that is comfort-driven, an extension of the sportswear top.''
 Retail specialists say that dresses are alluring to the customer long starved for easy to wear, emphatically womanly looks. ''We are coming off a time period where things were very suit-and-pants-driven,'' said Robert Burke, a New York retail consultant. ''Now we're seeing a lot more feminine clothing.'' 
 Older women like the dress. ''There is a memory of the 60's and 70's, when we all wore dresses,'' said Linda Dresner, the owner of boutiques in New York and Birmingham, Mich. They represented a ''glamorous lady feel, and they were sexy,'' she said. ''That's been missed.'' Ms. Dresner noted a full-skirted black wool dress by Azzedine Alaia and fluid Alberta Ferretti looks as top sellers this fall. 
 But younger women, too, are surprised to discover dresses as forgiving alternatives to jeans, the perfect antidote to one too many brunch-hour Bellinis.
 ''I've never like tight-fitting clothes,'' said Anna Krieger, a real estate agent who was shopping at Saks Fifth Avenue last week. She turned from jeans to dresses last summer and recently bought a Vince button-front knit version to see her into fall. 
 For Ms. Krieger, 23, a widening selection of dresses that swing out from the shoulders, just grazing the hips, is reason to rejoice. ''This is the first time in my memory that designers have matched comfort and style really successfully,'' she said. 
 Others are delighted to find interpretations that accommodate a variety of moods and body types. Dresses ''are fun to wear,'' said Liz Retz, 25, a project manager for a New York advertising agency, as she examined a rack of high-waisted jersey dresses at Saks. ''You can put them with boots or high-heeled shoes and a belt and completely change their look,'' she said. 
 Eileen Rosen, 59, an office manager at an optical firm in Manhattan, prefers a jumper. ''It's loose and comfortable,'' she said. ''You can wear it alone or over a sweater or shirt.'' Her daughter, Jennifer Rosen, 26, an advertising saleswoman, gravitates to short sweater dresses worn with tights or ankle boots. ''They make me feel feminine,'' she said. 
 As frivolous as some dresses may seem, they appeal to women in the corporate world. Ms. Dresner said that even lawyers have not shied away.
 But others think twice about wearing a dress on the job. ''It might look a little bit less mature, less established than a pantsuit,'' said Ms. Krieger, the real estate agent. ''People look at dresses as a casual thing, not as a serious look.'' She wears her dresses on weekends, ''mostly for comfort,'' she said. 
 Ms. Rosen, the ad sales representative, often puts on a dress for dates. She relishes the look on her boyfriend's face when she greets him at the door. ''I wear jeans all the time, so his eyes light up,'' Ms. Rosen said. ''He likes that element of surprise. That what a dress is about.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: PANTS, BEGONE -- Far right, a Vivienne Tam dress, shown at Macy's with jackets by Anna Sui, near right, and ABS, center. Below in descending order, styles by Shareen at Kirna Zabete
by Alberta Ferretti at Linda Dresner
 and by Riser Goodwyn, also at Kirna Zabete. (Photographs by Lars Klove for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); FASHION SHOWS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); LABOR FORCE (72%); RETAILERS (72%); WOMEN (72%); WOMEN'S APPAREL MFG (70%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (66%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (65%); WOMEN WORKERS (60%) Apparel; Dresses 

PERSON: Ruth La Ferla

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006



98 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2655 words

HEADLINE: The Energy Diet

BYLINE: By ANDREW POSTMAN

 BODY:
I'VE tried to be responsible. 
 I've thought pro-green thoughts and occasionally even done pro-green things. I've run the dishwasher and washer-dryer only with full loads. I've recycled, as ordered, though like every New Yorker I've ever met, I suspect the system does more good for our feelings than for the environment. I've shaved while showering, although I can't remember anymore whether that's a good or a bad thing.
 I've been too busy to do much more, though, and too confused and overwhelmed by all the eco hype out there, and too inflexible to seriously change my lifestyle. No way am I hanging clothes out to dry on a clothesline. I won't drive more slowly -- as President Bush, like past presidents, has urged Americans to do to save gas -- and neither will you, and neither will anyone. And I recently bought a flat-screen high-def 37-inch TV, an energy-Hoover you'll have to pry from my cold, dead hands; if you haven't seen an N.F.L. game on something like that, my friend, you might as well watch curling. 
 But the morning after I saw Al Gore's ''An Inconvenient Truth,'' I was spurred to action. I bought 50 compact fluorescent light bulbs -- 50 -- intent on replacing every incandescent one in my home. The new bulbs were supposed to be 67 percent more efficient and last up to 15 times longer. Unfortunately, the ones I bought also cast a considerably colder light, so I aborted my plan after just two bulbs when I realized the quality of light they emitted reminded me of a bus station bathroom. 
 In the weeks since, I dispatched the six cartons of unused C.F.L.'s to the basement, and my guilt grew alarmingly. As the father of three very young children, I had to do something -- but something I would actually follow through with, something that would take minimal effort. Then, two weeks ago, while eating a doughnut and watching the scintillatingly clear images of Mets and Yankees scampering across my TV screen, I saw what I needed to do.
 Flipping channels, I came across the news that Bill Clinton's Global Initiative had just ended with Richard Branson, the British mogul, pledging $3 billion to fight climate change over the next decade. On another channel, Mayor Bloomberg stood at a podium in California and announced, to my pride and delight, his sweeping eco-initiative for New York: the city's carbon emissions would be measured, an Office of Long-Term Planning and Sustainability would be created. Meanwhile, the man standing next to him, Governor Schwarzenegger, was set to sign legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions for his state -- the world's 12th largest contributor of such gases -- at a level the federal government had continually rejected. Everyone was chipping in, even Arnold, the first civilian ever to drive a Hummer. I took another bite of doughnut.
 And that's when it came to me. I should go on a diet. 
 A half-ton diet.
 I knew, having taken the ''Calculate Your Impact'' survey on climatecrisis.net, the companion Web site for the Gore movie, that our household produced some 19,100 pounds of CO2 last year, 4,100 pounds more than the national average. (The concept of a ''pound'' of gas is a nebulous one -- depending on the pressure and temperature, it can fill a thimble or a stadium -- so maybe it's best portrayed this way: one pound of CO2 is what's released per each mile driven, or each mile flown per person; it's what's produced to heat five gallons of water.)
 For easier math, I rounded my number to 20,000 pounds, or 10 tons. As a family, as a household, couldn't we drop a half-ton, a mere 5 percent of our weight? That's 10 pounds for a 200-pounder to lose, 6 for a 120-pounder.
 Absolutely. It was a goal, one I could stick to. Ambitious as it sounded, it was, amazingly, not excessive. I could keep living generally the way I wanted. I gave myself eight hours, no more, to lose the weight. In a world where texting passes for conversation and hooking up for a relationship, perhaps I'd just defined the new activism. Very little pain, not insignificant gain. 
 Mindy Pennybacker, the editor of The Green Guide and thegreenguide.com, was also enthusiastic about my plan. ''Americans have too much weight in many ways, so it's a metaphor that makes sense,'' she said when I called her. ''If it motivates you because it's familiar and part of your everyday life, that's terrific.'' 
 ''It's all about attitude,'' said Laurie David, the founder of the Stop Global Warming Web site (stopglobalwarming.org) and a board member of the National Resources Defense Council. ''Change one or two things, you end up changing four or five things. You can't put the toothpaste back in the tube. Before you know it, you start influencing people around you.''
 Like most dieters, I cut deals with myself. If you're trying to lose real weight, you vow, say, to give up beer and ice cream but retain your pizza rights. Since I was trying to emit less CO2, I vowed to lower the thermostat at night by one degree -- not two, as often recommended by tree-huggers -- a tweak I expected none of us would notice. (That saved 79 pounds; each degree equals approximately 315 pounds of CO2; turning it down only at night, for the six colder months, or 1/4 times 315). In return? No more guilt over TV size. 
 Friends I called for suggestions understood my deal-making. Judy said she never used electrical kitchen appliances -- ''Opening a can is something I'm able to do'' -- but was still not ready to swap Vaseline for non-petroleum eye-makeup remover. Victoria said she saw a young mother with her baby in some sort of recycled paper diaper that did not look at all absorbent. ''My baby is wearing Pampers, probably one of the most wasteful things I do,'' she said. Then again, as much as she loves S.U.V.'s -- the way they feel and handle -- she and her husband realized that if they bought one they would be ostracized by half their circle. They bought a station wagon that gets three times the mileage.
 I vowed to quit my profligate morning habit of turning on the shower and leaving the bathroom, not returning until several minutes after the water was hot. On the flip side, once I stepped into the shower I was not going to turn the experience into a 60-second spasm of sudsing and rinsing. Two minutes shower going unnecessarily times 2.5 gallons per minute times 365 morning showers times three ounces of CO2 produced per gallon of hot water equals 342 pounds. (My calculations, here and elsewhere, were made with the help of experts at the National Resources Defense Council and The Green Guide, several credible Web sites and a few smart relatives who grew up to be physicists and engineers.)
 When washing white loads, I'd switch from the warm/warm cycle to warm/cold, comfortable that neither I nor my wife would notice the difference. (We didn't.) Sixty-two pounds saved.
 Four hundred and eighty-three total pounds, 30 seconds of effort to reprogram the thermostat, two no-brainer decisions. Maybe my diet was riddled with compromises, but it was working.
 I found further validation for my lack of rigor. ''When people equate efficiency with discomfort and sacrifice -- like when Jimmy Carter put on a sweater and encouraged Americans to lower the thermostat -- they shy away from it,'' said Bill Prindle, the deputy director of the nonprofit American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy. ''A month later they're back to their old ways. We need to ask people to act from their values'' -- meaning fundamentals like ''physical security, clothing, food and shelter, including thermal comfort.''
 I felt certain I could unearth more savings in what Danny Seo, an eco-expert with a TV show, a Sirius radio show and a series of books all titled ''Simply Green,'' described to me as ''bad habits we don't even realize are bad habits.'' For example, was it really energy-wiser, as I'd often heard, to leave a light or computer on for the few minutes you're out of the room, rather turning it off and then on again?
 ''Total myth,'' Mr. Prindle said. ''Actually, I think that's a projection. Because it takes me more work to shut it off, people think, then it must generally require more energy. It's like the better-to-leave-the-car-idlingtheory.'' 
 There were other bad habits that were just as easy to break. A friend suggested this quickie: Call retailers to get them to stop sending the print catalogs to which our house had become addicted. I chose 10 -- L. L. Bean, Crate & Barrel, J. Crew, Eddie Bauer, Garnet Hill, Design Within Reach, Lands' End, Restoration Hardware, Hammacher Schlemmer and the Company Store. (Originally I'd included Williams-Sonoma, but my wife vetoed that idea.) It took me 22 minutes total to cancel them -- eight phone calls and two e-mails. Ninety (the average number of pages) times 12 (number of issues per year we seem to get) times 10 (retailers) equals 10,800 pages. Since my research shows that one tree produces about 25,000 pages of the coated, lower-end virgin paper used in most catalogs, I'd just saved 43 percent of one tree. One tree produces 260 pounds of oxygen, 43 percent of that is 112 pounds, which converts to 154 pounds of CO2 saved.
 Everyone but me seemed to know about ''vampires'' -- those energy suckers plugged into the wall when not in use (toasters, coffeemakers, hair dryers, cellphone chargers), consuming energy in standby mode. The easiest solution? Pull out individual plugs or, particularly for areas near computers and home entertainment equipment with lots of components, plug everything into a power strip (with surge protector) and, when done for the night or weekend, flip off the illuminated switch. Doing that would save me about 115 pounds annually on the computer, about 200 pounds on the TV, DVD and VCR. (Cable and satellite boxes draw huge amounts of energy, but turning them off may result in considerable reboot delays. I'm not going to turn mine off every night, but I might when I go on vacation.)
 My boys and I drove to Lowe's for surge protectors as well as a thermal insulating blanket for our 75-gallon hot-water heater; wrapping it, every expert I spoke with told me, significantly reduces the massive heat loss, especially in winter. (Newer water heaters tend to have higher levels of insulation built in.) The largest blanket they carried, though, was for a 60-gallon tank, and a check of their Web site (and, later, of the Home Depot's) also showed no blanket for a tank our size. Forget it, then; this was the lazy man's diet, minimum effort.
 On our way to the cashier, we passed an aisle with motion sensors, and I remembered my brother had them in his bathrooms, where they shut off the lights soon after people left. They seemed an easy enough item to buy and install. I called my brother, Marc. ''Be honest,'' I said. ''Will there be re-wiring?'' My brother, an astrophysicist, said no, there wouldn't be; then something to the effect that, unless I was too stupid to remove a light switch plate and put another one on, I was fully capable.
 ''Wait,'' I said. ''Why does anyone need a motion sensor in their bathroom? Don't people turn the light on when they go in and turn it off when they leave?''
 ''Ah,'' he said. ''You don't have teenagers yet.''
 Scratch the motion sensors, at least for six more years.
 I was now up to 952 pounds, more than 90 percent of the way to my goal. Okay; I was ready to turn back to the C.F.L.'s. I decided I could tolerate the cool white ones in two places only: our outside vestibule (60 watts replaced with 13 watts, with the same number of lumens, or brightness), and one overhead fixture in my office (75 watts replaced with 19), where its effect was neutralized by incandescent track lighting. They were lights that were on much more often than most. Together, they would save me, annually, about 300 pounds in 20 minutes, including shopping time.
 Three hundred pounds. No typo. Two bulbs.
 I wasn't done, though -- soon but not yet. I learned from Laurie David of Stop Global Warming that it makes almost no sense to rinse dishes in very hot water when they're just going into a dishwasher to be rinsed in even hotter water. I would hereby skip that step, plus I'd also hand-wash dirty dishes created after 10 o'clock (no real chore since I find it relaxing). Should buy us two loads weekly, down to four instead of six -- or 200 pounds saved for the year.
 And I would have to give up my screensaver habit, much as I loved images of my children floating across my line of sight while I thought up sentences. In screensaver mode, my computer still draws a lot of power, according to David Goldstein, the energy program director for the Natural Resources Defense Council. He advised that by changing my settings so that computer and display both go to sleep when inactive for 10 minutes (as opposed to my original setting of three hours), I would save about 250 pounds annually. It took me 30 seconds to click on the Apple icon, then ''System Preferences,'' then ''Energy Saver.''
 Seventeen hundred pounds dropped in 68 minutes -- a little more than one of the eight hours I'd allowed for. All that would be required of me in the future was 10 seconds nightly to shut off two power strip switches and five to 10 minutes, every now and then, of pleasant dishwashing.
 I ought to be done with it now -- even if my numbers were a bit off, I'd blown past my goal, after all, a dangerous thing to do early on with a diet. But maybe Ms. David is right: make one change, soon you're ready to make three. Maybe one day soon I'll be ready to change a whole floor's worth of light bulbs; I learned after buying my 50 bulbs that it's possible to find C.F.L.'s that cast a warm glow, and the Green Guide's helpful light bulb product report suggests that C.F.L.'s have been improving. Danny Seo says that Ikea carries lighting fixtures that handsomely mask the shortcomings of C.F.L.'s, with tinted glass or a strip of wood veneer. Maybe we'll replace a roll or six of virgin toilet paper with post-consumer waste napkins -- maybe. This is all I'm willing to do right now. Don't look for me to carpool at elevators.
 Then again, I can't help but wonder how much I might accomplish if I actually put in more effort than a garden slug. I'm intrigued by what a friend, an architect, told me: That if just one teensy change were made to New York City -- if all black roofs were painted white or silver, a simple, surprisingly inexpensive fix -- the financial and energy savings would be jaw-dropping, not to mention that it would severely reduce the possibility of blackouts and brownouts. Relatively meager effort, monster bang for the buck.
 So, like, I don't know, maybe some weekend soon we all just get brushes and roof paint, fan out across the city, and just do it and get it over with? And afterward everyone comes by my place to watch the World Series on my big old flat-screen?

The Green Web

www.thegreenguide.com This guide has in-depth product reports (on light bulbs, diapers and so on), blogs and a comfy feeling; especially good on health and nutrition.

www.dannyseo.typepad.com Mr. Seo, an eco-friendly designer, blogs about ways to greenify your home, inside and out.

www.energystar.gov Good conversion data is available here. Also, while some may find their eyes glazing over at descriptions of Energy Star-rated appliances, it's interesting to check out differences between what you have and what's available now.

www.aceee.org The American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy offers refreshingly straightforward information for both regular folks and wonks.

www.nrdc.org The National Resources Defense Council weighs in with good policy papers on almost every aspect of the environment -- air, water, cities, waste, etc.

www.stopglobalwarming.org This site lets users join the Stop Global Warming Virtual March (in about as much time as it takes to read this sentence twice). It also has consumer tips. ANDREW POSTMAN


CORRECTION-DATE: October 12, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article and an accompanying list of Web sites last Thursday about ways homeowners can improve energy efficiency misstated part of the name of an environmental organization. It is the Natural Resources Defense Council, not the National Resources Defense Council.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Elwood Smith)(pgs. F1, F6, F7)Chart: ''Cutting Back''How one man dropped 1,700 pounds of carbon dioxide emissions.ACTIVITY: Turn the thermostat down 1 degree at night in the winterINCONVENIENCE FACTOR: Reprogram thermostatANNOYANCE FACTOR: None expectedTIME REQUIRED: 30 secondsCOST: NoneREDUCTION IN CO2 EMISSIONS (LBS. PER YEAR): 79ACTIVITY: Don't leave the bathroom while the shower heats upINCONVENIENCE FACTOR: NoneANNOYANCE FACTOR: NoneTIME REQUIRED: NoneCOST: NoneREDUCTION IN CO2 EMISSIONS (LBS. PER YEAR): 342ACTIVITY: Wash whites with a warm/cold cycleINCONVENIENCE FACTOR: NoneANNOYANCE FACTOR: NoneTIME REQUIRED: NoneCOST: NoneREDUCTION IN CO2 EMISSIONS (LBS. PER YEAR): 62ACTIVITY: Cancel delivery of print catalogsINCONVENIENCE FACTOR: 8 phone calls, 2 e-mailsANNOYANCE FACTOR: NoneTIME REQUIRED: 22 minutesCOST: NoneREDUCTION IN CO2 EMISSIONS (LBS. PER YEAR): 154ACTIVITY: Buy and put in 2 cool white compact fluorescent bulbs in non-annoying placesINCONVENIENCE FACTOR: Install bulbs (but won't have to install again for about 80 years)ANNOYANCE FACTOR: Light less warm, but in unobtrusive placesTIME REQUIRED: 20 minutesCOST: $4 more than for 2 regular bulbs, but they last longerREDUCTION IN CO2 EMISSIONS (LBS. PER YEAR): 300ACTIVITY: Buy 2 power strips with surge protectors, turn them off at nightINCONVENIENCE FACTOR: Trip to hardware store, plug inANNOYANCE FACTOR: Turn off at night and on in morningTIME REQUIRED: 25 minutes, plus 10 seconds per dayCOST: $33REDUCTION IN CO2 EMISSIONS (LBS. PER YEAR): 315ACTIVITY: Hand-wash any dishes made dirty after dinnerINCONVENIENCE FACTOR: NoneANNOYANCE FACTOR: Extra time for dishwashing, but I enjoy the reverieTIME REQUIRED: 5-10 minutes some nightsCOST: NoneREDUCTION IN CO2 EMISSIONS (LBS. PER YEAR): 200ACTIVITY: Set computer to ''sleep'' soonerINCONVENIENCE FACTOR: Modify ''System Preferences''ANNOYANCE FACTOR: A few extra seconds to get going after a lullTIME REQUIRED: 20 secondsCOST: NoneREDUCTION IN CO2 EMISSIONS (LBS. PER YEAR): 250(pg. F7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (88%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (72%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION (66%); CHILDREN (64%); LEGISLATION (64%); CITY GOVERNMENT (62%); GLOBAL WARMING (60%) Weather; Global Warming; Carbon Dioxide; Conservation of Resources; Electric Light and Power; Energy and Power

PERSON: AL GORE (56%); BILL CLINTON (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%) Andrew Postman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006



99 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1437 words

HEADLINE: Military Hones A New Strategy On Insurgency 

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
The United States Army and Marines are finishing work on a new counterinsurgency doctrine that draws on the hard-learned lessons from Iraq and makes the welfare and protection of civilians a bedrock element of military strategy.
 The doctrine warns against some of the practices used early in the war, when the military operated without an effective counterinsurgency playbook. It cautions against overly aggressive raids and mistreatment of detainees. Instead it emphasizes the importance of safeguarding civilians and restoring essential services, and the rapid development of local security forces.
The current military leadership in Iraq has already embraced many of the ideas in the doctrine. But some military experts question whether the Army and the Marines have sufficient troops to carry out the doctrine effectively while also preparing for other threats. 
 The subtleties of the battle were highlighted Wednesday when the Iraqi Interior Ministry suspended a police brigade on suspicion that some members had been involved in death squads. The move was the most serious step Iraqi officials had taken to tackle the festering problem of militias operating within ministry forces. [Page A14.] 
 The new doctrine is part of a broader effort to change the culture of a military that has long promoted the virtues of using firepower and battlefield maneuvers in swift, decisive operations against a conventional enemy.
 ''The Army will use this manual to change its entire culture as it transitions to irregular warfare,'' said Jack Keane, a retired four-star general who served in 2003 as the acting chief of staff of the Army. ''But the Army does not have nearly enough resources, particularly in terms of people, to meet its global responsibilities while making such a significant commitment to irregular warfare.''
 The doctrine is outlined in a new field manual on counterinsurgency that is to be published next month. But recent drafts of the unclassified documents have been made available to The New York Times, and military officials said that the major elements of final version would not change. 
 The spirit of the document is captured in nine paradoxes that reflect the nimbleness required to win the support of the people and isolate insurgents from their potential base of support -- a task so complex that military officers refer to it as the graduate level of war.
 Instead of massing firepower to destroy Republican Guard troops and other enemy forces, as was required in the opening weeks of the invasion of Iraq, the draft manual emphasizes the importance of minimizing civilian casualties. ''The more force used, the less effective it is,'' it notes.
 Stressing the need to build up local institutions and encourage economic development, the manual cautions against putting too much weight on purely military solutions. ''Tactical success guarantees nothing,'' it says.
 Noting the need to interact with the people to gather intelligence and understand the civilians' needs, the doctrine cautions against hunkering down at large bases. ''The more you protect your force, the less secure you are,'' it asserts.
 The military generally turned its back on counterinsurgency operations after the Vietnam War. The Army concentrated on defending Europe against a Soviet attack. The Marines were focused on expeditionary operations in the third world.
 ''Basically, after Vietnam, the general attitude of the American military was that we don't want to fight that kind of war again,'' said Conrad C. Crane, the director of the military history institute at the Army War College, a retired Army lieutenant colonel and one of the principal drafters of the new doctrine. ''The Army's idea was to fight the big war against the Russians and ignore these other things.''
 A common assumption was that if the military trained for major combat operations, it would be able to easily handle less violent operations like peacekeeping and counterinsurgency. But that assumption proved to be wrong in Iraq; in effect, the military without an up-to-date doctrine. Different units improvised different approaches. The failure by civilian policy makers to prepare for the reconstruction of Iraq compounded the problem.
 The limited number of forces was also a constraint. To mass enough troops to storm Falluja, an insurgent stronghold, in 2004, American commanders drew troops from Haditha, another town in western Iraq. Insurgents took advantage of the Americans' limited numbers to attack the police there. Iraqi policemen were executed, dealing a severe setback to efforts to build a local force.
 Frank G. Hoffman, a retired Marine infantry officer who works as a research fellow at an agency at the Marine base at Quantico, Va., said that in 2005, the Marines sometimes lacked sufficient forces to safeguard civilians. As a result, while these forces were often effective ''in neutralizing an identifiable foe, they could not stay and work with the population the way the classical counterinsurgency would suggest.''
 The effort to develop the new program began a year ago under Lt. Gen. David H. Petraeus, commander of the Army's Combined Arms Center at Fort Leavenworth, Kan., and Lt. Gen. James N. Mattis, former commander of the Marine Corps Combat Development Command and the current chief of the First Marine Expeditionary Force. Colonel Crane, Lt. Col. John A. Nagl and Col. Douglas King of the Marines were among the major drafters.
 Academics and experts from private groups were asked for input. A draft was completed in June and was circulated for comment. Almost 800 responses were received, but military officials said they would not alter the substance of the new doctrine.
 ''We are codifying the best practices of previous counterinsurgency campaigns and the lessons we have learned from Iraq and Afghanistan to help our forces succeed in the current fight and prepare for the future,'' Colonel Nagl said. 
 In drafting the doctrine, the military drew upon some of the classic texts on counterinsurgency by the likes of T. E. Lawrence of Arabia, and David Galula, whose ideas were partly informed by his experience in Algeria. 
 Colonel Crane said that many of the ideas adopted for the manual had been percolating throughout the military. ''In many ways, this is a bottom-up change, '' he said. ''The young soldiers who had been through Somalia, Haiti, Bosnia, Kosovo, and now Iraq and Afghanistan, understood why we need to do this.'' 
 As the manual is being drafted, the military has also revised the curriculum at its war colleges and training ranges to emphasize counterinsurgency. At the National Training Center in California, the old tank-on-tank war games against a Soviet-style enemy have been supplanted by combat rehearsals in which troops on their way to Iraq and Afghanistan engage in mock operations with role players who simulate insurgents, militias and civilians.
 Dennis Tighe, a training program manager for the Combined Arms Center at Fort Leavenworth, said the rehearsals were vital for preparing troops for their new counterinsurgency mission. But the Army is stretched so thin and so many units are focused on rehearsing for Iraq and Afghanistan at the training center that concerns have grown that the Army may be raising a new group of young officers with little experience in high-intensity warfare against heavily equipped armies like North Korea.
 ''That is one of the things folks are a little concerned about,'' Mr. Tighe said. 
 While the counterinsurgency doctrine attempts to look beyond Iraq, it cites as a positive example the experience in 2005 of the Army's Third Armored Cavalry Regiment, which worked with Iraqi security forces to clear Tal Afar of insurgents, to hold the town with Iraqi and American troops, then to encourage reconstruction there, an approach known as ''clear, hold, build.''
 One military officer who served in Iraq said American units there generally carried out the tenets of the emerging doctrine when they had sufficient forces. But protecting civilians is a troop-intensive task. He noted that there were areas in which there were not enough American and Iraqi troops to protect Iraqis adequately against intimidation, a central element of the counterinsurgency strategy.
 ''The units that have sufficient forces are applying the doctrine with good effect,'' said the officer, who is not authorized to speak on military policy. ''Those units without sufficient forces can only conduct raids to disrupt the enemy while protecting themselves. They can't do enough to protect the population effectively and partner with Iraqi forces.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Paradoxes of Counterinsurgency''A draft Army and Marine Corps field manual describes nine ''representative paradoxes'' of counterinsurgency operations.The more you protect your force, the less secure you are.If military forces stay locked up in compounds, they lose touch with the people, appear to be running scared and cede the initiative to insurgents.The more force used, the less effective it is.Using substantial force increases the risk of collateral damage and mistakes, and increases the opportunity for insurgent propaganda.The more successful counterinsurgency is, the less force that can be used and the more risk that must be accepted.As the level of insurgent violence drops, the military must be used less, with stricter rules of engagement, and the police force used more.Sometimes doing nothing is the best reaction.Often an insurgent carries out a terrorist act or guerrilla raid with the primary purpose of causing a reaction that can then be exploited.The best weapons for counterinsurgency do not shoot.Often dollars and ballots have more impact than bombs and bullets.The host nation's doing something tolerably is better than our doing it well.Long-term success requires the establishment of viable indigenous leaders and institutions that can carry on without significant American support.If a tactic works this week, it might not work next week
 if it works in this province, it might not work in the next.Insurgents quickly adapt to successful counterinsurgency practices. The more effective a tactic is, the faster it becomes out of date.Tactical success guarantees nothing.Military actions by themselves cannot achieve success.Most of the important decisions are not made by generals.Successful counterinsurgency relies on the competence and judgment of soldiers and marines at all levels.(pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (92%); ARMIES (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); TRENDS (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Military Strategy and Tactics; Intelligence Services; Prisoners of War; Public Opinion; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (91%); PRISONERS OF WAR (59%)

PERSON: Michael R Gordon; David H (Lt Gen) Petraeus; James N (Lt Gen) Mattis; Conrad C (Col) Crane; John A (Lt Col) Nagl; Douglas (Col) King

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006



100 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 366 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Amish School Survivors Struggle After Killings
Seven members of Leroy Zook's family were in the one-room Amish schoolhouse in Nickel Mines, Pa., on Monday morning when Charles C. Roberts IV rapped on the door armed with chains, clamps and guns. All the Zooks, including Mr. Zook's wife and two daughters, got out unharmed, but not unshaken. PAGE A20

Another Dow Record 

The Dow Jones industrial average, shrugging off a weak report on factory orders, had its second consecutive record close, climbing above 11,800. Nasdaq shares rose more than 2 percent, their highest level in five months. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C15

Problems for Hedge Funds
Hedge funds have hit a rough patch. Yet investors continue to pour in money and hope that the next fund with a problem will not be one of theirs. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

U.S. Warning for North Korea
The Bush administration warned North Korea not to conduct a nuclear test and significantly toughened its position, saying the United States ''is not going to live with'' a nuclear-armed North Korea. PAGE A8

A Second-Generation Nobel Winner
Dr. Roger D. Kornberg, left, won this year's Nobel Prize in Chemistry. His father, Dr. Arthur Kornberg, shared the Nobel in medicine in 1959. PAGE A20

New Nuclear Debate in Iran
A forgotten letter from 1988 suggests that Iran has sought nuclear weapons for decades, undermining its contention that its nuclear fuel is only for peaceful purposes. PAGE A14

R. W. Apple Jr., Times Globe-Trotter, Dies at 71
In more than 40 years as a correspondent and editor at The New York Times, R. W. Apple Jr. wrote from more than 100 countries about war and revolution, politics and government, food and drink, and the revenge of living well.
 Mr. Apple, who was known as Johnny, enjoyed a career like no other in the modern era of The Times. PAGE B8

Discord at Brooklyn Museum
A sweeping reorganization at the Brooklyn Museum is causing dissension within the ranks, playing a part in the recent resignations of three veteran curators and two board members. THE ARTS, PAGE E1

Belt-Tightening at Home
Need a simple way to help save the planet? Go on an energy diet at home and reduce your carbon dioxide emissions. HOUSE & HOME, PAGE F1

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images)
 (Photo by The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOBEL PRIZES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (88%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); HEDGE FUNDS (74%); NICKEL MINING (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); EMISSIONS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); AWARDS & PRIZES (71%); CHEMISTRY (66%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006



101 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Editorial Observer; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: The Revival of a Notorious Solution to a Notorious Scourge 

BYLINE: By TINA ROSENBERG

 BODY:
Of all the wars in Africa, the most deadly is between humans and mosquitoes. More than a million Africans die of malaria every year, the vast majority of them small children. Malaria shrinks the economies of countries where it is endemic by 20 percent over 15 years. One reason the mosquitoes are winning is that the world had essentially discarded its single most effective weapon, DDT. 
 But Washington recently resumed financing the use of DDT overseas, and the dynamic new malaria chief of the World Health Organization, Arata Kochi, has said that the W.H.O., too, endorses widespread indoor house spraying with DDT. 
 This is excellent news for the humans in Africa. DDT both repels mosquitoes and kills them. It is the cheapest, longest lasting and most effective insecticide, and it will not threaten the ecosystem. Unlike in the past, DDT will now be sprayed inside houses once or twice a year in minute amounts.
 DDT was the most important insecticide in the eradication of malaria in the United States, and in malaria control in southern Europe, Asia and Latin America. With DDT, malaria cases in Sri Lanka, then called Ceylon, dropped from 2.8 million in 1946 to 17 in 1963. 
 But Rachel Carson's 1962 book ''Silent Spring'' documented how DDT, sprayed over crops and over cities, built up in the ecosystem, killing birds and fish. William Ruckleshaus, the first head of the Environmental Protection Agency, banned DDT in 1972 for all but emergencies. 
 This was the right decision -- for the United States. Malaria was no longer an issue, and Washington needed to ensure that it would not be used on crops. But the decision had deadly consequences overseas. ''If I were a decision maker in Sri Lanka, where the benefits from use outweigh the risks, I would decide differently,'' Mr. Ruckleshaus told me in 2004. ''It's not up to us to balance risks and benefits for other people.''
 Yes, except that Africa's malaria programs are financed by donors and vetted by the world's health establishment, which is dominated and financed by the United States and Europe, where DDT is also banned. People in rich countries felt it would be perceived as hypocritical to push a product in poor countries that they had banned at home. Even malariologists who knew DDT could be used safely dared not recommend it. 
 The United States, which used DDT irresponsibly to wipe out malaria, ended up blocking much poorer and sicker countries from using it responsibly. Under American pressure, several Latin American countries that had controlled malaria stopped using DDT -- and in most of them, malaria cases soared.
 The other reason for DDT's demise was donor tightfistedness. DDT has to be sprayed inside houses, an activity that needs to be carried out by governments. In most African countries, this means donors must pay. They balked, and insecticide-treated bednets became bureaucrats' preferred solution. Donors liked the program because it was cheap and sustainable, as consumers would buy the nets -- often at subsidized prices. But it has failed. The nets work -- but even at $5, few can buy them. The most recent data show that only 3 percent of African children sleep under treated nets. 
 The eradication of malaria in rich countries turned out to be the worst thing that happened for people with malaria in poor countries. Malaria lost its constituency, and the money dried up. Throughout Africa, until recently, countries were using chloroquine to cure malaria, a medicine that cost pennies, and so could be bought by rural families. But mosquitoes had become resistant to it. And donors were unwilling to spend the money for effective medicines. 
 But this is changing. The AIDS pandemic has raised interest in third-world disease, and malaria financing has more than doubled in the last three years. African countries are also learning from South Africa, which doesn't have to depend on donors. Since 2000, South Africa has been successfully beating malaria using the new medicines and house spraying with DDT. 
 Conservatives in the Senate, led by Tom Coburn and Sam Brownback, have forced a revolution in Washington's malaria programs. America now promotes effective malaria drugs, gives away bednets, and has brought back house spraying -- including with DDT. 
 Malaria soared because the forces allied against it quit the battlefield. Now the humans are back. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MALARIA (92%); INSECTICIDES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); TROPICAL MEDICINE (78%); PESTICIDES (78%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (74%); BIRDS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (55%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (50%) Malaria; Ddt (Dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane); Pesticides; Mosquitoes; Editorials

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (57%)

PERSON: Tina Rosenberg

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); AFRICA (97%); SRI LANKA (93%); EUROPE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); ASIA (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%) Africa

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006



102 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Discusses Giving Seoul Command of Combined Forces

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Sept. 30 

 BODY:
South Korean and American officials are expected to decide in October on a date for Seoul to regain wartime command of its military from Washington, in what could be a landmark change in the half-century-old military alliance.
 Since the Korean War of 1950-53, the authority to lead the Combined Forces Command of both countries in war has rested in the hands of an American general. South Korea has proposed 2012 as the date for a turnover, while the United States has said it will be ready to surrender the command as early as 2009. 
Despite the agreement, the decision has roiled South Korean society in recent weeks, exposing the deep cleavages here in the opinions toward the United States and North Korea. Liberals led by President Roh Moo-hyun have said that reclaiming wartime operational control over the military is a matter of national pride and sovereignty, and they accuse opponents of being stuck in a cold war dependence on the United States. Conservatives argue that the timing is wrong, given North Korea's missile tests and threats of atomic bomb tests, and they accuse Mr. Roh of coddling the North and undermining the alliance with the United States.
 Song Min-soon, chief national security adviser to Mr. Roh, said that ''the alliance is developing into the shape needed for our common future requirements.''
 The United States needs a strong ally, Mr. Song said in an interview, ''and that is the case with the U.S. allies in other parts of the world.'' 
 South Korea, ''with the 10th-largest economy, is spending about the eighth-largest defense budget in the world, and still it cannot stand on its own,'' Mr. Song added. South Korea -- whose military forces number 650,000, the world's sixth largest -- regained peacetime operational command over its forces in 1994, and the process to reclaim wartime command started years ago. But the present transfer is taking place in a particularly strained period in which Seoul and Washington see little in common, particularly toward North Korea, which Seoul wants to engage and Washington wants to isolate.
 The transfer is occurring even as the United States is cutting troops here as part of a worldwide realignment of forces and a plan to make its troops here more flexible. The size of the American force here has fallen to 30,000 from 40,000 in recent years and is expected to shrink to 25,000 over two years.
 The United States is said to favor an earlier transfer because it would allow the Pentagon to focus more resources elsewhere. The South Koreans say they will be fully ready to assume wartime command in 2012.
 But conservatives here have argued that Seoul is not ready, and have held demonstrations to underscore the point.
 Politicians from the main opposition Grand National Party have sent delegations to the United States to lobby against the transfer. But at home, at the risk of seeming to be against sovereignty, the opposition has said it would support the transfer only at an appropriate, though unspecified, date.
 A leader of the delegation, Hwang Jin-ha, a national lawmaker, said the transfer had nothing to do with sovereignty or national pride. He said he was concerned that the transfer could weaken the alliance.
 ''Right now, the wartime operational control of the Combined Forces Command is symbolic of the alliance,'' he said. ''It's like living in one house under one roof, thinking together about threats and fighting together.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); POLITICS (88%); ARMED FORCES (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%); COLD WAR (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); CONSERVATISM (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (72%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (72%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; Missiles and Missile Defense Systems; Nuclear Tests; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: Norimitsu Onishi

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%) South Korea; North Korea ; South Korea

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006



103 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; MANAGUA JOURNAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Hold the Mojito and Margarita, Nicaragua Has el Macua

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

DATELINE: NUEVO LAREDO, Mexico, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
Nicaraguan folk music fills the air at the House of the Mejias Godoy, a nightspot in Managua, the sprawling capital of Nicaragua. The plates of steaming food served there -- beans and rice, plantains and chunks of tasty meat -- are also 100 percent Nicaraguan.
 But the Nicaraguan authenticity comes to an end when it comes to quenching one's thirst. 
 Cuba's mojito, with its crushed lime and mint leaves, is on the drinks menu. The margarita, Mexico's way of showing off what tequila can do, is available as well. The bloody mary and Tom Collins are offered from the colossus to the north.
 But Nicaragua, alas, has no cocktail to call its own. Despite a top-quality domestic rum, the bartenders borrow from others when mixing it. They add Coca-Cola and call the resulting drink a Nica libre, which everyone knows is really just a Cuba libre knockoff. They add soda water or ice, which does little to make the resulting drink shout ''Nicaragua!''
 But the country, which many still associate with the guerrilla war that tore the place apart in the 1980's, is eager to stand on its own two feet again. A United States trade embargo that ended in 1990 leveled the country's economy, but exports are now growing faster in Nicaragua than anywhere else in Central America. More and more visitors are arriving to climb the volcanoes and navigate the island-filled lakes.
 Soon those tourists may be able to sidle up to a bar on a sweltering evening and order a uniquely Nicaraguan trago, which translates as a drink or swallow or swig.
 ''We want something authentic, something that goes down your throat and tastes Nicaraguan,'' said Rene Hauser, the owner of a popular French restaurant in Managua and one of the judges in a competition to find an official national cocktail.
 The winning drink will not be the Nica rumba or the experanza or the fantasia del lago, all of which were also-rans in the contest, which wound up Tuesday. 
 Judged on their taste and appearance, the erupsion pinolera, the nicarao and the monbacho en las rochas did not make the cut either.
 After sipping the numerous offerings, the judges have opted for a fruity concoction that they called el macua, after a tropical bird found in this part of the world. The drink is one part white rum, one part guava juice, with a half-portion of lemon juice and some sugar and ice.
 If all goes according to plan, el macua will soon be known worldwide as Nicaragua's national thirst quencher, as closely tied to this country as the caipirinha is to Brazil and the pisco sour to Peru.
 Judges described this yellowish drink as strong, fruity and sweet. It was invented by Dr. Edmundo Miranda, 67, a pediatrician from the city of Granada on Lake Nicaragua. He said his wife, daughter and guava-loving son-in-law had helped him perfect the formula.
 One of the requirements was that the drink be appropriate for Nicaragua's steaming climate. ''We wanted something refreshing, that cools you in the heat,'' Mr. Hauser said. ''We didn't want a drink that was too filling. You can have two or three mojitos and feel good.''
 Not surprisingly, given that Flor de Cana, Nicaragua's rum company, was a sponsor, all entries had to be rum based. But other than that, the sky was the limit. Many of the drinks capitalized on Nicaragua's array of tropical fruits, with banana, coconut, pineapple, melons and tamarind all showing up in the candidate drinks. One contestant that raised eyebrows exploited Nicaragua's coffee beans by mixing them with rum.
 ''Some of them were quite interesting,'' said Jurg Benz, who works for a Swedish development agency and was invited as a judge to provide a foreigner's perspective. ''Others were too close to drinks I'd tried before.''
 That certainly cannot be said for the drinks that relied on Nicaragua's more exotic agricultural offerings, like the pitaya, known as the dragon fruit, which grows on a cactus. Then there is the sapodilla, which is about the size of a baseball and has a yellowish pulp and a red rind. The jocote, which is eaten unripe or ripe, also appeared, as did the mamoncillo, which has a juice that Nicaraguans use to cure stomachaches.
 One of those sipping the finalists was Jean-Pierre Lafosse, the French ambassador to Nicaragua, who cannot imagine a country without a national drink. He said his country had three: Champagne; pastis, an aperitif that includes anis, nutmeg, sugar and other ingredients; and kir, which combines white wine and creme de cassis.
 ''It's part of the identity of a country,'' he said. ''Nicaragua needs a new identity that doesn't have anything to do with revolution. This is a chance.''
 On top of that, Mr. Lafosse saw the open invitation that was offered to Nicaraguans to put their best drink forward as a model for the politicians now vying for the presidency in an increasingly ugly campaign that winds up on Nov. 5.
 ''It was a democratic competition, where the best drink wins,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Judges took notes during a round of the competition, held in a Managua hotel on Sept. 18, to choose a national cocktail from among 20 drinks. (Photo by Bismarck Picado/La Prensa)
 The winner, held by its creator, Dr. Edmundo Miranda, was el macua, made from rum and fruit juices. (Photo by Miguel Alvarez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (76%); DRINKING PLACES (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (65%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (65%); BIRDS (63%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (60%) Alcoholic Beverages; Rum; Contests and Prizes

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (56%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%)

PERSON: Marc Lacey; Edmundo (Dr) Miranda

GEOGRAPHIC: BISMARCK, ND, USA (73%) NORTH DAKOTA, USA (73%) NICARAGUA (99%); CUBA (90%); PERU (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (73%) Nicaragua

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006



104 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 122 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Report Details Global Warming Effects 

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA (NYT); Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:
Summers in New York and the rest of the Northeast could be as hot as those in South Carolina by the end of the century if heat-trapping emissions are not reduced, according to a study released yesterday by the Union of Concerned Scientists. Average temperatures are projected to rise by as much as 12.5 degrees, while the number of days when the temperature exceeds 90 degrees could increase fourfold to 60 or more days a year. There could be less snow in the winters, and more rain, the study found. An industry trade group for electricity-generating companies questioned the accuracy of the study's assumptions and said the study had failed to account for the economic costs of measures to reduce emissions. ANTHONY DePALMA (NYT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%) Weather; Global Warming; Research

ORGANIZATION: UNION OF CONCERNED SCIENTISTS (84%) Union of Concerned Scientists

PERSON: Anthony Depalma

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State; Northeastern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006



105 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: Shares Surge Amid Hopes for Lower Rates

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks rallied the most in seven weeks yesterday after the biggest part of the economy slowed and the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, acknowledged a housing slump, encouraging speculation that benchmark interest rates may decline next year.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index set a five-year high and the Dow Jones industrial average climbed above 11,800 for the first time.
Technology shares led the gains as Nvidia, the maker of computer graphics chips, surged on speculation that Intel may buy the company. Ford Motor rose on the prospect that Renault and Nissan may seek an alliance after ending talks with General Motors. 
 The S.& P. 500 jumped 16.11 points, or 1.2 percent, to 1,350.22. The Dow climbed 123.27 points, or 1.1 percent, to 11,850.61. The Nasdaq composite index increased 47.30 points, or 2.1 percent, to 2,290.95. All three measures had the biggest advance since Aug. 15.
 About 1.87 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board.
 Service industries, accounting for about 90 percent of the economy, expanded in September at the slowest pace in more than three years and a gauge of inflation plunged.
 Mr. Bernanke said a housing slump would lop about a percentage point off economic growth in the second half and limit expansion next year. His remarks yesterday reaffirmed a view that the central bank was done raising borrowing costs.
 Crude oil for November delivery rebounded from a seven-month low to close 0.7 percent higher at $59.41 in New York.
 Nvidia shares surged $2.78, or 9.8 percent, to $31.08 for the biggest gain in the S.& P. 500.
 Ford rallied 33 cents to $8.56. G.M. ended talks aimed at forming an alliance with Renault and Nissan.
 Procter & Gamble, the consumer goods maker, jumped $1.04, to $63.34. Home Depot, the home improvement retailer, added 66 cents, to $37.49. 
 Wal-Mart Stores, the world's largest retailer, gained even after it cut its estimate of United States same-store sales growth in September to 1.3 percent, from 1.8 percent. The company, which made an initial sales estimate on Sept. 30, said it discovered mistakes in calculations at 235 locations. The stock added 9 cents, to $49.55.
 Boeing, the commercial jet maker, advanced $2.18, or 2.7 percent, to $83.96, for the biggest advance in the Dow. Boeing gained after its chief rival, Airbus, said delays to deliveries of the A380 jet would cut 4.8 billion euros ($6.1 billion) from its parent company's earnings through 2010.
 Microsoft advanced 57 cents, or 2.1 percent, to $27.94, for the second largest gain in the Dow average. A Goldman Sachs analyst, Richard G. Sherlund, wrote in a note that Microsoft's Windows Vista operating system was likely to be ready on time, reversing a previous view that the product could be months late. Windows runs almost 95 percent of the world's personal computers.
 ImClone Systems, the biotechnology company, rose $2.16, to $29.33. In a filing, management said the billionaire investor Carl C. Icahn blocked a September buyout bid by a large drug maker it did not identify. Mr. Icahn, the company's second-largest shareholder, said yesterday that ImClone was worth more than the $36-a-share takeover offer.
 In the bond market, the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell to 4.56 percent, from 4.61 percent. The price, which moves in the opposite direction of the yield, rose 14/32, to 10215/32.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RETAILERS (85%); HOME CENTERS (85%); PARENT COMPANIES (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); SAME STORE SALES (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); AIRCRAFT MFG (76%); SALES PROJECTIONS (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); EURO (72%); COMPUTER CHIPS (71%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (67%); COMPANY EARNINGS (65%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (72%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); INTEL CORP (57%); NVIDIA CORP (57%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (53%); WAL-MART STORES INC (53%); AIRBUS SAS (51%); BOEING CO (51%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (72%); F (NYSE) (72%); GS (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (57%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); NVDA (NASDAQ) (57%); PGP (PAR) (53%); PG (NYSE) (53%); WMT (NYSE) (53%); BOE (LSE) (51%); BAB (BRU) (51%); BA (NYSE) (51%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (72%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (57%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (57%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (53%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (53%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (53%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (51%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006



106 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Prosecutors in KPMG Tax Shelter Case Offer to Try 2 Groups of Defendants Separately

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
Prosecutors overseeing a huge tax shelter case against former employees of the accounting firm KPMG took steps yesterday to try the 18 defendants separately in two groups.
 The surprise move signals that the government is shifting tactics as it works to shore up the largest criminal tax case ever. 
The 18 defendants had been scheduled to stand trial in January. But under the proposal, prosecutors now suggest holding two trials, one of a group of former senior partners and executives, and the other of more junior employees. 
 The new proposal was outlined in a three-page letter sent yesterday to Judge Lewis A. Kaplan of Federal District Court in Manhattan, who is overseeing the case. 
 The proposal does not give a timeline for when the separate trials might start, or in what order. Prosecutors sent the letter after Judge Kaplan requested during a hearing on Tuesday that they submit such a plan. Lawyers for certain defendants have previously argued that their clients should be tried separately. 
 Last year, 16 former KPMG employees, as well as a lawyer and an outside investment adviser, were indicted by a federal grand jury in Manhattan on charges that they conspired to defraud the Internal Revenue Service by creating and selling certain questionable tax shelters. 
 The proposal to split the group comes after Judge Kaplan raised concerns about some prosecutorial tactics in the complex case. KPMG narrowly averted criminal indictment last year over certain questionable shelters and instead reached a $456 million deferred-prosecution agreement. Judge Kaplan has criticized prosecutors for pressuring KPMG to cut off the payment of legal fees to the defendants.
 His concerns how appear to extend to the indictments of the defendants.
 According to a transcript of the hearing on Tuesday, Judge Kaplan said: ''The government indicted 18 people knowing that the effect of doing that would be to put economic pressure on people, along with whatever else puts pressure on people to cave and to plead, because they can't afford to defend themselves and because perhaps there are other risks involved in a joint trial. That is the patent reality of this case.''
 A representative for the United States attorney's office in Manhattan did not have a comment on the letter yesterday. 
 The letter, which was not filed under seal but did not appear on the court's docket, was confirmed by two persons close to the proceedings. 
 Under the proposal, the junior defendants would include Jeffrey Eischeid, the rising star who was in charge of KPMG's personal financial planning division; John Larson, a former KPMG employee who set up an investment boutique that sold shelters; David Amir Makov, a onetime Deutsche Bank employee who later worked with Mr. Larson's investment boutique, Presidio Advisory Services; and Gregg Ritchie, a former partner; among others. 
 The senior defendants would include Jeffrey Stein, a former vice chairman who was the No. 2. executive at the firm; John Lanning, a former vice chairman in charge of tax services; Richard Rosenthal, a former chief financial officer; Steven Gremminger, a former associate in-house lawyer; Robert Pfaff, a former KPMG partner who worked with Mr. Larson to set up Presidio Advisory Services; David Greenberg, a former senior tax partner; and Raymond J. Ruble, a former lawyer at Sidley Austin Brown & Wood; among others.
 Lawyers for the defendants maintain that their clients did nothing illegal, while prosecutors contend that they created and sold tax shelters, some involving fake loans, that deprived the Treasury of $2.5 billion in tax revenue.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX FRAUD (91%); INDICTMENTS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LAWYERS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); GRAND JURY (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); CONSPIRACY (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (67%); ETHICS (64%); TRANSCRIPTS (63%) Taxation; Tax Evasion; Tax Shelters; Ethics; Taxation; Taxation

COMPANY: KPMG (95%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (55%); DBK (FRA) (55%); DBK (BIT) (55%); DBETN (JSE) (55%); DBA (ASX) (55%); DB (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (95%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (95%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%)

PERSON: JOHN LARSON (89%) Richard (Former Kpmg Partner) Smith; Jeffrey (Former Kpmg Partner) Stein; John Lanning; Jeffrey Eischeid; Philip Wiesner; John Larson; Robert Pfaff; Mark Watson; Raymond J Ruble; Richard Rosenthal; Larry Delap; Steven Gremminger; Gregg Ritchie; Randy Bickham; Carol Warley; David Rivkin; Carl Hasting; David Greenberg; David Amir Makov; Lynnley Browning

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006



107 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

CHARGES IN HEWLETT CASE -- Patricia C. Dunn, the former chairwoman of Hewlett-Packard, and four other people were charged with felonies for illegally obtaining private phone records of company directors, journalists and others. [Page A1.]

WHEN LEAK QUERIES STARTED -- The former Hewlett-Packard chief executive Carleton S. Fiorina ordered the first of a series of leak investigations into contacts by board members with journalists in January 2005, according to her memoir, ''Tough Choices'', which is scheduled to be published on Monday. [C1.] 


OPTIONS BACKDATING AT APPLE -- Apple Computer said an internal review of its stock option practices found that Steven P. Jobs, the chief executive, knew that the company was backdating options to increase their value. [C1.]

G.M. MERGER TALKS END -- General Motors called off its talks for an alliance with Nissan and Renault after the Japanese and French companies refused to pay billions of dollars to cement the deal. [C1.]

'CORRECTION' IN HOUSING -- The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, left, said the United States housing market was in a ''substantial correction'' that would lop about a percentage point off economic growth in the second half and would restrain the expansion next year. ''There is currently a substantial correction going on in the housing market,'' Mr. Bernanke said. The decline in residential housing construction is one of the ''major drags that is causing the economy to slow.'' [C11.]

SURVIVING A SIDE-IMPACT CRASH -- A driver's risk of being killed in a side-impact crash decreases by more than a third if the vehicle has head-protecting side-curtain air bags, according to a study of accident data by the Insurance Institute for Highway. [C13.]

SHARES RALLY FOR ANOTHER RECORD -- Shares rallied the most in seven weeks, as the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index set a five-year high and the Dow Jones industrial average climbed above 11,800 for the first time. Nasdaq shares rose more than 2 percent, their highest level in five months. [C15.]

SIGNS OF SLUGGISH ECONOMY -- In further signs of a sluggish economy, orders to factories for manufactured goods were weak for a second month and activity in service industries was the slowest in more than three years. [C11.]

PROBLEMS FOR HEDGE FUNDS -- Hedge funds -- investments for institutions like pension funds and endowments and the wealthy -- have hit a rough patch. Returns for many hedge funds, which are supposed to be the market beaters, have paled in comparison to stocks. And yet investors have hardly blinked. Eager for the rich, if not always predictable, returns that hedge funds promise, they continue to pour money into them and hope the next fund with a big problem will not be one of theirs. [C1.]

NEW TACTICS IN THE KPMG CASE -- Prosecutors shifted tactics in the KPMG tax shelter case, taking steps to try 18 defendants in two separate groups, one of former partners and executives and one of more junior employees. [C11.]

VW BUYS TRUCK STAKE -- The German automaker Volkswagen said it had bought a 15 percent stake in the Austrian truck maker MAN, part of an effort to build a three-way alliance with MAN, Scania of Sweden and its own truck business. Earlier this month, MAN, which is based in Munich, made a $12.2 billion hostile bid for Scania, in which Volkswagen already owns an 18.7 percent stake. Scania's management and Volkswagen rejected that bid. [C13.]

WAL-MART DROPS ESTIMATE -- Wal-Mart Stores unexpectedly lowered its estimate for monthly growth in sales at stores open at least a year after discovering mistakes in calculations. [C3.]

ICAHN OPPOSED IMCLONE DEAL -- ImClone Systems accused the billionaire investor Carl C. Icahn of sabotaging a proposal from a big drug maker to acquire it, but Mr. Icahn said he had opposed the deal because the offering price was too low. [C5.]

PUBLIC SCHOOLS, PRIVATE MANAGEMENT -- In what would be the biggest change yet to the way New York City's school system is administered, officials are considering plans to hire private groups to manage scores of public schools at taxpayer expense. [A1.]

OUTSOURCING SECURITY BREACHES -- India's outsourcing industry with its expanding base of American and European customers, has suffered a series of security breaches, tarnishing its reputation. [C15.]

ONLINE

DEALBOOK -- A report on mergers and acquisitions, up-to-the-minute news on Wall Street and a look at the behind-the-scenes maneuvering is at nytimes.com/dealbook.

Business Briefing
Articles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.

SHARES OF STARBUCKS soared yesterday, even before the company announced that its September sales growth figures trounced Wall Street estimates and that it had opened more than 2,000 new stores in its latest fiscal year. (AP)

THE SHAW GROUP, a provider of engineering and construction services for the energy, chemical and construction industries, announced plans to pay $1.08 billion for a 20 percent stake in the group acquiring Westinghouse Electric. (AP)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks Volkswagen's share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); WRITERS (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); FELONIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (87%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (86%); HEDGE FUNDS (86%); TEEN SUICIDE (79%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); BACKDATED STOCK OPTIONS (75%); STOCK OPTIONS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (74%); MERGERS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (73%); PENSION FUNDS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (71%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (71%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); INSURANCE (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); FACTORY ORDERS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); ENDOWMENTS (60%); NICKEL MINING (59%) Murders and Attempted Murders; Education and Schools; Children and Youth; Suicides and Suicide Attempts; Mennonite Churches; Murders and Attempted Murders; Amish

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (84%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (54%); BEN BERNANKE (51%) Shaila Dewan; Sean D Hamill; Leroy Zook; Emma Mae Zook; Charles C Iv Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (56%) Nickel Mines (Pa)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006



108 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Thursday Styles; Critical Shopper; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: Standing at the Crossroad in Harlem

BYLINE: By Alex Kuczynski

 BODY:
HAVE you been watching Oprah Winfrey lately? Ms. Winfrey and her friend Gayle King have been documenting a cross-country trip they took in early September. They drive themselves. They stop in grocery stores. They stay in cheesy motels.
 In one segment, they marvel at how surprisingly annoying it is to check into a hotel without the usual V.I.P. treatment. In another, Ms. Winfrey suggests that travelers bring their own pillows and linens because who knows what kinds of cooties live in motel bedding. And as they cruise a local store Ms. King announces, sorrowfully, to Ms. Winfrey that it does not stock 1,000-count bed linens. 
Let's change the situation. What if this were Rachael Ray, Katie Couric or Rosie O'Donnell on a road trip with her best friend, laughing and snorting at how a small store in the middle of America doesn't sell expensive sheets? Isn't it strange that no one, as far as I know, has remarked on the luxury-adoring habits of America's most down-home, up-by-her-bootstraps black woman as she communes with America and tries to be a regular person? Am I alone in thinking it odd that Ms. Winfrey's road trip, while it at times hilariously and amiably earthy, can resemble a parody of ''The Simple Life''?
 Now think about another African-American entity making an example of its love -- adoration, even -- of good taste and luxury. When N, a designer boutique opened on West 116th Street just off Malcolm X Boulevard, neighborhood bloggers went nuts. The store sells things Ms. Winfrey would love: Jonathan Adler home goods; clothing by BCBG, Tracy Reese, Velvet, Nicole Miller, Byron Lars and Hugo Boss; ethnic skin care lines by Barc, Iman and Three Custom Color; home-scent diffusers by Manhattan Diffusions. (Have you noticed that diffusers, those things with sticks poking out of the bottle, are the new scented candle? How bad do our apartments smell, people? ) 
 But on Curbed, a real estate blog, local chatterers wrote angrily that the store would not survive in the largely African-American neighborhood. ''Suppose if they keep up all that security and can survive on ladies who all have private drivers,'' one wrote, ''then it might stick around.'' (N employs a security guard, as do most stores selling pricey clothes in any neighborhood. In this case, he just looks more like a cleaned-up Ol' Dirty Bastard than your standard department-store mook.)
 Another blogger responded: ''What, locals can't have money to spend on upscale clothes? The customers have to be rich (white?) people who don't live in Harlem?'' 
 On my first visit, on a weekday afternoon, a teenager in a baseball cap, gold medallion and pants that started around his upper thighs summed it up for me by saying it just didn't seem as if it belonged. ''I think it's for the white folks,'' he said. His mother, he said, wouldn't even go in, and they live only two blocks away.
 But the store reports strong sales from black and white shoppers. And the evidence of my visits proved that the two groups populate N.
 Truth be told, no one would bat an eye if N had opened in the West Village or on Third Avenue in the 70's. It's a nice place, with nice clothes -- and certainly there is clothing by African-American designers like Mr. Lars and Ms. Reese. 
 What appears to be anger -- or perhaps it's alienation -- may reflect the fact that African-American culture is at an economic crossroad, especially in Harlem, where condos are selling for north of $2 million. Neighborhood bloggers demand to know what an upscale store, selling clothes by Nicole Miller (white), Hugo Boss (white) and Marimekko (a bunch of Finns, and I bet they're not black) is doing in their 'hood. Yet Oprah Winfrey is celebrated in the same 'hood for her ambition and love of luxury. 
 To the city below 110th Street, Harlem is simultaneously unrefined and a daringly sophisticated community, stretching the boundaries of humanity and culture in a way that few other American neighborhoods do. The kid on the corner feels uncomfortable that his mother won't, or can't afford to, shop there. But the people buying the condos at the nearby Lenox (where a penthouse recently sold for $2.4 million) and the Dwyer (condos priced to more than $1 million) may be happy they can find a hand-tailored suit at N, for prices starting at $1,000, without having to go two miles south.
 N's existence on 116th Street, a block that is home to purveyors of West African goods, the Southern restaurant Amy Ruth's and a couple of check-cashing outposts, is a very noisy announcement that Harlem will be gentrified, probably sooner rather than later. And no one likes noisy announcements or watching new businesses try to change the neighborhood, even in tiny, possibly good ways. 
 On my second visit last week, I was surprised to find myself shopping alongside a tour group of about a dozen middle-aged white women. I bought a hooded Hugo Boss men's sweatshirt as a present ($220), and a Hugo Boss brown and gold mesh top for me ($195). One of the women showed me the list of their shopping destinations: Xukuma, a home store on Lenox Avenue; the Malcolm Shabazz Harlem Market; and the Brownstone shop. 
 ''Where are you from?'' I asked.
 ''New York City,'' she said after some hesitation, looking abashed that she had run into a white compatriot, also clearly from lower Manhattan, but one who had not arrived with a dozen ladies, a chauffeured bus and a guide. 
 Next time, I told her, it's safe to come up here on your own. 

N
114 West 116th Street; (212) 961-1036

ATMOSPHERE -- An expertly styled boutique that could be at home on Madison Avenue. Floor-length mirrors on an outdoor patio let you see what clothes will really look like; the men's area, downstairs, is edged in stone and scented with sandalwood.
SERVICE -- Conversational and friendly.
PRICES -- Nicole Miller dress, $270; Chip & Pepper jeans, $170; Miss Sixty dress, $150.
KEY LOOKS: For women, funky sweaters, high-end jeans and party dresses; for men, stylish jeans and tailored suits.


GRAPHIC: Photos: UPTOWN STYLE -- At the boutique N in Harlem, high-end designer goods have attracted shoppers to the rapidly gentrifying streets north of Central Park. (Photographs by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (88%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (72%); FASHION DESIGNERS (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (50%) Apparel

ORGANIZATION: N (NYC Store)

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (92%); KATIE COURIC (53%) Alex Kuczynski

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006



109 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Thursday Styles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1506 words

HEADLINE: A Simple Show Of Hands

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
ON a brisk autumn afternoon, in the shadow of the marble arch in Washington Square Park, a couple visiting from Ohio walked along holding hands like two teenagers going steady, decades after ''going steady'' went out of vogue. 
 When a stranger asked why they had chosen to join hands during their stroll, the man, Dave Findlay, looked at his wife of seven years and answered in a word: ''Connection.''
Or as the Beatles sang back in 1963: ''When I'll feel that something, I want to hold your hand.''
 Those simple lyrics turned an expression of teenage longing and first romantic steps into a No. 1 hit. Yet today, when Justin Timberlake is at the top of the charts with ''SexyBack'' and the digital airwaves are filled with steamy lyrical declarations (''I'm into havin' sex, I ain't into makin' love'' sang 50 Cent in ''In da Club''), couples like Dave and Carey Findlay still intertwine fingers, kiss palms and link pinkies as they meander through parks, cross streets and snake through crowds. 
 ''Hand-holding is the one aspect that's not been affected by the sexual revolution,'' said Dalton Conley, a professor and chairman of the department of sociology at New York University. ''It's less about sex than about a public demonstration about coupledom.'' 
 Nowadays hand-holding has attracted the interest of scientists who are studying its effects on the body and mind. And sexual health educators say it is a much-discussed topic among gay students who now publicly hold hands more than ever before but still must consider whether they want to declare their sexuality.
 ''I think it remains more important in an era of perhaps more liberal sexual norms,'' Dr. Conley said. ''It remains this thing to be doled out.'' 
 To hold someone's hand is to offer them affection, protection or comfort. It is a way to communicate that you are off the market. Practically speaking, it is an efficient way to squeeze through a crowd without losing your partner. People do it during vigils, marches, weddings and funerals. 
 Usually it connotes something innocuous and sweet about a couple and their relationship. In rare instances, it takes on added potency, such as when President George W. Bush held the hand of Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia in Crawford, Tex., last year -- an act of respect and affection in Arab countries -- reminding some people of the film ''Fahrenheit 9/11,'' which depicted the Bush family's close business ties to Saudi leaders and which ignited conspiracy theories.
 But, over all, few things are more innocent than a child grabbing the hand of a parent, for protection, direction and, as Mr. Findlay put it, connection. And with many children these days closer and more outwardly affectionate to their parents, chances are you have spotted a mother and her teenage daughter and perhaps even a father and his adolescent son ambling through a mall, scurrying through a crosswalk or strolling along, hand in hand. 
 Adult children and their elderly parents also hold hands, for balance, support and as a sign of love.
 As for romantic couples, the opinions about hand-holding are as varied as fingerprints. But most people agree that it has merely changed, not lost favor. 
 ''I think that for sure college students hold hands just like the old days,'' said Sandra L. Caron, a professor of family relations and human sexuality at the University of Maine in Orono.
 If they do, it is likely only after they are deep into a relationship -- not in those early days of budding romance, when a touch of hands was the first act of intimacy between a couple. That was the hand-holding that the Beatles wrote about. (Followed swiftly by the sexual revolution, whose equivalent anthem might be The Rolling Stones' ''Let's Spend the Night Together.'')
 Among more than a half-dozen students at the University of Maine, there seemed to be two universal truths: that hand-holding is the least nauseating public display of affection and that holding hands has become more significant than other seemingly deeper expressions of love and romance. 
 ''It is a lot more intimate to hold hands nowadays than to kiss,'' said Joel Kershner, 23. Because of that, he said, reaching for someone's hand these days has more potential for rejection than leaning in for a smooch at a party where alcohol is flowing.
 Libby Tyler, 20, said it was ''weird that hand-holding is more serious,'' but true. ''It's something that you lead up to,'' she said.
 There is nothing casual about it any more, said Rachel Peters, 22. ''Hand-holding is something that usually people do once they've confirmed they're a couple,'' she said.
 But if that is not complicated enough, where you choose to hold hands also has meaning, the students said.
 Drew Fitzherbert, 21, said that public hand-holding ''shows that commitment not only to you and your partner but everyone else in the community.''
 Dr. Conley of N.Y.U. agreed. ''In the dark movie theater, in the dorm room, that's a very different social act,'' he said. 
 Are people holding hands as much as they once did? That's impossible to quantify. But Gregory T. Eells, the director of counseling and psychological services at Cornell University in Ithaca, said he didn't think so. 
 ''I see more people on their cellphone than holding hands,'' he said, adding, ''To some extent we are trading real face-to-face relationships, where there's touch and body language, for electronic ones.'' 
 Peter Shawn Bearman, a professor of sociology and the director of the Institute for Social and Economic Research and Policy at Columbia University, said that hand-holding in crowded cities like New York may simply be impractical.
 ''Maybe if the proportion of hand-holders has indeed gone down it has more to do with density (of humans) than the devaluing of hand-holding as a romantic signal,'' he wrote in an e-mail message.
 Whatever degree of hand-holding may be happening, there are good reasons to cultivate the habit -- reasons would-be hand-graspers may wish to pass along to their hands-in-pockets partners. 
 ''Based on what we've seen, when we get more physical intimacy we get better relationships, whether a mother and an infant or a couple,'' said Tiffany Field, the director of the Touch Research Institute at the University of Miami School of Medicine. 
 Even monkeys understand the importance of a hand squeeze every now and then. In ''Good Natured: The Origins of Right and Wrong in Humans and Other Animals,'' Dr. Frans B. M. de Waal, a primatologist at Emory University, wrote that some monkeys hold hands in reconciliation after a fight.
 James Coan, an assistant professor of psychology and the neuroscience graduate program at the University of Virginia, has studied the impact of human touch, particularly how it affects the neural response to threatening situations, and said the results of a recent study were more dramatic than he expected. 
 ''We found that holding the hand of really anyone, it made your brain work a little less hard in coping,'' Dr. Coan said, adding that any sort of hand-holding relaxes the body.
 The study, which will be published this year in the journal Psychological Science, involved 16 couples who were rated happily married based on the answers in a detailed questionnaire. The wives were put inside an M.R.I. machine and were told they were to receive mild electric shocks to an ankle. Brain images showed that regions of the women's brains that had been activated in anticipation of pain and that were associated with negative emotions decreased when their husbands reachedinto the machine. 
 ''With spouse hand-holding you also stop looking for other signs of danger and you start feeling more secure,'' said Dr. Coan, who led the study. ''If you're in a really strong relationship, you may be protected against pain and stress hormones that may have a damaging effect on your immune system.''
 Perhaps it is why so many people crave it. 
 Blogs and online forums are rife with complaints of those who say their significant other does not want to hold hands. ''When we go out, we always have a blast, but the one thing that bothers me is that he never holds my hand in public,'' writes a woman on a ''love advice'' forum on www.lovingyou.com. 
 For older couples, letting go of hand-holding may be one more sign that they are pressed for time and too swamped for little acts of intimacy. 
 ''When do we make time to hold hands?,'' said Dr. Eells of Cornell, talking about his own marriage of 15 years. ''Not very often.'' 
 The couple is often busy shuttling children to and from school and extracurricular activities, not strolling through parks like characters in a Georges Seurat painting. 
 Sometimes, though, even errands provide opportunities. Recently, Dr. Eells said, he and his 9-year-old daughter were caught in a downpour after her cheerleading practice. The two grabbed hands and raced off into the rain together. When they finally splashed over to the car, the damp girl turned her face to her father. ''That was awesome,'' she sighed.


GRAPHIC: Photos: UNITED FRONT -- Once the first step toward intimacy, holding hands is more likely now a sign of commitment. (Photo by Vladimir Milivojevic for The New York Times)(pg. G1)
 LOCKED IN -- People moving in tandem across the city. Some see hand-holding as a public announcement that a couple is approaching. Others see the maneuver as an ideal way to snake through a crowd. (Photographs by Vladimir Milivojevic for The New York Times)(pg. G5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); GAYS & LESBIANS (73%); SEX EDUCATION (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); SOCIOLOGY (69%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (67%) Hands; Research

PERSON: 50 CENT (75%); JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE (55%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006



110 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: An Old Letter Casts Doubts On Iran's Goal For Uranium

BYLINE: By NAZILA FATHI

DATELINE: TEHRAN, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
A forgotten letter in which the founder of the Iranian revolution, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, cited a need for nuclear weapons has stoked a debate over whether to negotiate with the West and raised questions about Iran's nuclear intentions today.
 Within hours after the letter appeared Friday on the Web site of the news agency ILNA, the word ''nuclear'' was removed, apparently after a call from the Iranian National Security Council. 
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who has repeatedly insisted that Iran's nuclear program is peaceful, sharply criticized the release of the letter. ''Those who think they can weaken the will of the people for construction and development by questioning their values will fail,'' he said Sunday, ''and they only show their lack of wisdom and commitment.''
 The letter, which had been previously published elsewhere, was written in 1988, near the end of Iran's eight-year war with Iraq. It was brought to light again on Friday by the former Iranian president, Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, to defend himself against hard-line critics who accuse him of ending the war when Iran was on the brink of victory.
 But the letter has also been used by moderates to bolster the case for nuclear talks with the West. Iran faces sanctions for defying the United Nations Security Council's demand that it halt its uranium enrichment, which the United States says is part of a weapons program. 
 In the letter, Ayatollah Khomeini outlined the reasons Iran had to accept the bitter prospect of a cease-fire in the war, which had ground down to a stalemate, with about 250,000 Iranians dead and 200,000 disabled. It did not specifically call for Iran to develop nuclear weapons, but referred indirectly to the matter by citing a letter written by the officer leading the war effort, Mohsen Rezai.
 ''The commander has said we can have no victory for another five years, and even by then we need to have 350 infantry bridges, 2,500 tanks, 300 fighter planes,'' the ayatollah wrote, adding that the officer also said he would need ''a considerable number of laser and nuclear weapons to confront the attacks.'' 
 Ayatollah Khomeini determined that the nation could not afford, politically or economically, to continue the war, and in a famous public statement compared the decision to ''drinking a chalice of poison.''
 ILNA, the Iranian Labor News Agency, removed the word ''nuclear'' within a few hours of putting the letter on the Web, after receiving a call from the Iranian National Security Council, according to a reporter with the agency. The reporter insisted on anonymity for fear of retribution. 
 The letter was released as part of a debate about who was most instrumental in persuading Ayatollah Khomeini to end the war. That argument, in turn, reflects growing tensions between moderates, led by Mr. Rafsanjani, and military figures, who are expanding their power in the government of President Ahmadinejad. 
 ''The letter is purely part of a domestic argument,'' said Mohammad Atrianfar, the director of the daily Shargh, an opposition paper that was shut down last month, and a close aide to Mr. Rafsanjani. ''Mr. Rafsanjani is very worried because he feels that military and intelligence figures are coming to power and want to alienate the clergy by blaming them for the damages caused during the war.'' 
 Hard-liners have criticized Mr. Rafsanjani for disclosing what they said was a classified document and casting doubt over what was termed by many a holy war. He has denied the accusations, saying the letter was made public in 1988 and later published in a book.
 But the letter has provided an opportunity for moderate voices to warn about the risks Iran takes in defying the United Nations, comparing the consequences to what happened during the war with Iraq. They argue that, when confronted with the realities of the war, Ayatollah Khomeini decided that the confrontation was not sustainable. 
 On Saturday the daily Kargozaran, a paper aligned with Mr. Rafsanjani, called the letter evidence of ''Iran's realistic understanding of the international situation,'' and concluded that the ''experience should become a basis in the decision makings, including Iran's nuclear plans.''
 Mohsen Armin, a reformist politician, said hard-line politicians who welcomed confrontation with the West should learn a lesson from the letter so they would not have to ''drink a chalice of poison'' themselves, ILNA reported. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); ARMED FORCES (62%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (78%); HASHEMI RAFSANJANI (73%) Nazila Fathi; Mahmoud (Pres) Ahmadinejad; Ruhollah (Ayatollah) (1900-89) Khomeini; Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN (79%); IRAQ (79%) Iran; Iran

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006



111 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: $10 Million Prize Set Up For Speedy DNA Decoding

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS WADE

 BODY:
A $10 million prize for cheap and rapid sequencing of the human genome was announced today by the X Prize Foundation of Santa Monica, Calif.
 The terms of the prize require competitors to sequence 100 human genomes of their choice within 10 days, and within six months those of a further 100 people chosen by the foundation.
The foundation chairman, Peter H. Diamandis, said the second list would include two groups, celebrities and patients nominated by groups involved with fighting diseases. 
 The notables who have signed up include Paul Allen, co-founder of Microsoft; the astrophysicist Stephen Hawking; the television interviewer Larry King; the financier Michael Milken; and Larry Page, co-founder of Google.
 The foundation gained fame two years ago when its prize for building a spacecraft was won by a team led by Burt Rutan and Paul Allen. It now plans a series of prizes to motivate inventors and entrepreneurs, with its first two targets being the human genome and a fuel-efficient car.
 The announcement of the prize brought together two former rivals, Drs. J. Craig Venter of the Venter Institute and Francis S. Collins, head of the National Human Genome Research Institute, which financed the government project to sequence, or decode, the genome.
 The government and Dr. Venter sequenced draft versions of the genome. The cost of the version that the government completed in 2003 was probably around $500 million, though no precise figure has been given. 
 Some experts foresee a medical revolution if the cost of DNA sequencing can be brought low enough that a person's genome could be decoded as part of routine treatment. Several companies have developed novel methods of sequencing, with the eventual goal of decoding a human genome for as little as $1,000.
 The foundation has not determined a critical parameter, how complete the genomes need to be. The present ''complete'' human genome has many gaps and is only as complete as present technology can make it. 
 Unlike the space prize, the genome prize is being offered in a field where the government has a vigorous grant program to encourage technology, and several companies are trying to accomplish the same goal for commercial reasons. 
 But Jonathan M. Rothberg, the founder of one of those companies, 454 Life Sciences of Branford, Conn., said the prize was welcome nonetheless.
 ''We formed 454 to sequence genomes economically, so it doesn't change our mission,'' Dr. Rothberg said. ''But it surely motivates our employees and energizes the investment community.''
 His company will compete for the prize. 
 Dr. Rothberg added that he expected that human genomes could be sequenced for $10,000 within 10 years or less, assuming that some reasonable standard of completeness was required, meaning one that allowed gaps to exist for the regions that are still too difficult to decode. Those regions are thought to contain few genes, if any.
 Stanley N. Lapidus, chief executive of another DNA-sequencing company, Helicos Biosciences of Cambridge, Mass., said the prize was ''a wonderful thing for focusing the public's attention on the promise of genomics.''
 The idea for the genome X prize grew out of a $500,000 prize offered in 2003 by Dr. Venter for being the first to sequence the human genome for just $1,000. The $10 million for the X prize is being put up by Dr. Stewart L. Blusson, president of Archon Minerals Ltd. and co-discoverer of the Ekati diamond mine at Lac de Gras, between Yellowknife and the Arctic Circle in the Northwest Territories of Canada. 
 The sole individual genome sequenced so far belongs to Dr. Venter, whose draft of the genome prepared by his company, Celera Genomics, turned out to be his own. 
 In addition, 454 Life Sciences has been working to decode the genome of Dr. James D. Watson, co-discoverer of the DNA structure.
 The genome decoded by the government was a mosaic of genomes from anonymous individuals.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENOMICS (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); DNA (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); GENETIC ANALYTIC TECHNIQUES (78%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (78%); CELEBRITIES (76%); ASTROPHYSICS (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); SPACECRAFT (69%); SPACE EXPLORATION (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Genetics and Heredity; Medicine and Health; Contests and Prizes; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: X Prize (Group)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

PERSON: PAUL ALLEN (70%); LARRY PAGE (54%); MICHAEL MILKEN (54%) Nicholas Wade

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006



112 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Warns North Koreans About Nuclear-Weapon Test

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and JIM YARDLEY; David E. Sanger reported from Washington, and Jim Yardley from Beijing. Steven Lee Myers contributed reporting from Moscow.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
The Bush administration sent a direct message to North Korea on Wednesday, warning it not to set off a nuclear test, and later declared that the United States was ''not going to live with'' a nuclear-armed North Korea.
 The later statement came in a speech by Christopher R. Hill, the assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific affairs, reported by Reuters. ''We are not going to live with a nuclear North Korea, we are not going to accept it,'' he said. 
Mr. Hill did not suggest what the American response would be and gave no hint of an economic or military response. But he said of North Korea: ''It can have a future or it can have these weapons. It cannot have both.''
 Mr. Hill's comments, made at the newly created U.S.-Korea Institute at Johns Hopkins University, contrasted sharply with Washington's muted initial reaction on Tuesday to North Korea's announcement that it would conduct an underground nuclear test ''in the future.''
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said that a test would be ''provocative,'' and the National Security Council released a statement saying that it would ''severely undermine our confidence in North Korea's commitment to denuclearization.'' 
 Mr. Hill said the direct message to North Korea, delivered to its mission at the United Nations, was in keeping with Tuesday's responses.
 Some inside the administration complained that the responses were so soft that North Korea would read them as an invitation to proceed. 
 In an emergency meeting held at the White House on Tuesday, senior aides discussed responses ranging from embargoes on North Korean goods to trying new ways to engage the country in talks. But no conclusion was reached, and the administration's long-running debate about how to deal with the North continued Wednesday. 
 Meanwhile, American officials were pressing China to intervene, though it is unclear how much influence the Chinese have; Beijing asked the North not to conduct a missile test in July, but it did so anyway.
 On Wednesday, China urged North Korea to exercise restraint and pursue a course of diplomacy rather than ''taking actions that may intensify the situation.''
 That message was a clear statement of disapproval from the country considered North Korea's strongest regional ally as well as its chief economic patron.
 ''We hope that North Korea will exercise necessary calm and restraint over the nuclear test issue,'' China's Foreign Ministry spokesman, Liu Jianchao, said in a statement on Wednesday. He called on ''all relevant parties'' to ''address their concerns through dialogues and consultations instead of taking actions that may intensify the situation.''
 China was host to six-nation talks over the nuclear crisis until North Korea broke them off a year ago in a dispute with Washington. 
 China has sought to bring both sides back to the talks with itself, Japan, South Korea and Russia, but North Korea's announcement of its plans for a nuclear test has again raised tensions.
 In Russia the foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, spoke with his South Korean counterpart, Ban Ki-moon, and ''stressed the unacceptability'' of a North Korean test, according to a statement. A test, the ministry's statement said, ''can only aggravate this situation.''
 The Foreign Ministry in South Korea, one of the North's biggest providers of aid, said a nuclear test could alter its policy of engagement, The Associated Press reported.
 ''If North Korea pushes ahead with a nuclear test, North Korea should take full responsibility for all consequences,'' said a spokesman, Choo Kyu-ho, after South Korean security ministers held an emergency meeting. 
 In a telephone conversation, Mr. Hill said he wanted to convince North Korea that it could not follow Pakistan's model. Pakistan tested a nuclear weapon in 1998 and endured three years of sanctions, but emerged after the Sept. 11 attacks as an American ally. ''This ain't Pakistan,'' he said. 
 The timing of North Korea's announcement comes at what had been a hopeful diplomatic moment in East Asia. On Wednesday morning, China announced that the new Japanese prime minister, Shinzo Abe, would visit Beijing on Sunday, the first official visit between leaders of the two Asian powers since 2001.
 Relations between the countries have deteriorated since then, largely over former Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's visits to the Yasukuni Shrine, a memorial honoring Japan's war dead, including convicted war criminals from World War II.
 After China, Mr. Abe will travel to South Korea to meet with President Roh Moo-hyun.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (86%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (73%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Atomic Weapons; Nuclear Tests

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (82%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (56%); UNITED NATIONS (54%) National Security Council

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (88%) David E Sanger; Jim Yardley; Christopher (Asst Sec) Hill; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (52%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (67%) UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); CHINA (94%); ASIA (92%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%) North Korea; China; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006



113 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chief Says Housing Is in a 'Correction' 

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said yesterday that the United States housing market was in a ''substantial correction'' that would lop about a percentage point off economic growth in the second half and would restrain the expansion next year. 
 Mr. Bernanke also said in response to questions after a speech in Washington that the central bank remained ''concerned about inflation'' because it was above ''what we would consider price stability.''
Taken together, the remarks reaffirm the view of some investors that the central bank will keep the benchmark lending rate unchanged at 5.25 percent for the remainder of the year.
 Stocks extended their advance after his comments, and Treasury notes remained higher.
 ''There is currently a substantial correction going on in the housing market,'' Mr. Bernanke said. The decline in residential housing construction is one of the ''major drags that is causing the economy to slow.''
 The Federal Open Market Committee has left the federal funds rate unchanged since August after two years of increases, betting on an internal forecast that slowing growth and a decline in energy prices will reduce inflation. The committee officials will next meet on Oct. 24 and 25.
 ''We do believe that inflation is going to be coming down gradually over time,'' Mr. Bernanke said after addressing the Economic Club of Washington. ''But it is something that we have to watch very carefully to make sure that it doesn't rise or even remain where it is.''
 His speech was devoted to the challenges faced by fiscal policy makers as the nation's work force ages, and to the need to overhaul entitlement programs, increase taxes or cut spending. Failure to do so, he predicted, will place the burden on future generations and erode the productive potential of the economy.
 Part of the Fed's economic forecast appears to be panning out. The economy expanded at a 2.6 percent annual rate in the second quarter, down from a 5.6 percent pace in the first three months. Crude oil prices are down 9 percent from a year ago.
 Service industries in the United States expanded at the slowest pace in more than three years in September as the housing slump deepened. The Institute for Supply Management's index of nonmanufacturing businesses fell to 52.9, the lowest since April 2003. Home construction fell at an annual rate of 11.1 percent in the second quarter, the biggest decline since the same three months in 1995, the government said last week.
 Still, inflation has remained stubbornly high, rising 2.5 percent for the 12-month period that ended Aug. 31. That is above Mr. Bernanke's ''comfort zone'' of a 1 percent to 2 percent rise in the personal consumption expenditures price index minus food and energy.
 Mr. Bernanke also said that the Fed should share its economic outlook and the risks that surround that outlook, and called the central bank's communication strategy ''a work in progress.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chief, spoke in Washington yesterday. (Photo by David Scull/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PERSONAL CONSUMPTION EXPENDITURES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); INTEREST RATES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); CONSUMPTION (73%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (70%); TAX INCREASES (69%) Housing

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (62%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (91%) Ben S Bernanke

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006



114 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 340 words

HEADLINE: Deeper and Deeper

 BODY:
There is fresh evidence, if any more were needed, that excessive borrowing during the Bush years will make the nation poorer. 
 For most of the past five and a half years, interest rates have been low, allowing the government to borrow more and more -- to cut taxes while fighting two expensive wars -- without having to shoulder higher interest payments. 
That's over now. For the first time during President Bush's tenure, the government's interest bill is expected to rise in 2006, from $184 billion in 2005 to $220 billion this year, up nearly 20 percent. That increase -- $36 billion -- makes interest the fastest-growing component of federal spending, and continued brisk growth is likely. According to projections by Congress's budget office, the interest bill will grow to $249 billion in 2007, and $270 billion in 2008. 
 All of that is money the government won't have available to spend on other needs and priorities. And much of it won't even be recycled back into the United States economy. That's because borrowing from foreign countries has exploded during the Bush years. In 2005, the government paid about $77 billion in interest to foreign creditors in China, Japan and elsewhere. 
 And that's not the worst of it. While foreign investors were putting up most of the $1.5 trillion the federal government has borrowed since 2001, they were also snapping up hundreds of billions of dollars in private sector securities, transactions that have been a big source of the easy money that allowed Americans to borrow heavily against their homes. 
 The result, as The Wall Street Journal reported last week, is that for the first time in at least 90 years, the United States is now paying noticeably more to foreign creditors than it receives from its investments abroad. That is a momentous shift. It means that a growing share of America's future collective income will flow abroad, leading to a lower standard of living in the United States than would otherwise have been achieved. Americans deserve better than this financial mess. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); FOREIGN LENDING (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TAX LAW (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); LIVING STANDARDS (66%) National Debt (US); Editorials

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006



115 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: Los Angeles Publisher Is Ousted

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
In the latest chapter in a long-running drama at The Los Angeles Times, the nation's fourth-largest newspaper, the publisher was forced out yesterday, three weeks after publicly refusing to make job cuts requested by his corporate bosses.
 Meanwhile, the paper's editor, who had also refused to make the cuts, kept his job. The editor, Dean Baquet, said he agreed to stay because he was convinced he would have the chance to make his case anew for shoring up both his staff and his budget; a colleague said, however, that he could still leave.
 Ousting the publisher, Jeffrey M. Johnson, enables the Tribune Company, the newspaper's parent, to reassert control over a renegade publication while averting further turmoil for now. Many of Mr. Baquet's senior editors were considering leaving with him if he were fired or quit. 
 The move appears to delay the possibility that 100 people could be cut from the 940-member editorial staff in the next few months. Some cuts still appear likely, though possibly fewer and spread over a longer period. Tribune, like most newspaper companies, has come under pressure from Wall Street to increase profit and revenue, despite weakness in circulation and advertising. 
 Tribune appointed a new publisher, David Hiller, who met with Mr. Baquet after the company announced the resignation of Mr. Johnson, who was appointed publisher last year. Both Mr. Johnson and Mr. Baquet had expected to be fired after they spoke out publicly in the pages of their own newspaper against the desires of their corporate parent to cut the staff and squeeze expenses.
 Mr. Baquet said in an interview yesterday that Mr. Hiller, who had been publisher of The Chicago Tribune, told him he had no set level of staff cuts in mind. ''I'm going to do everything in my power to convince him that this needs to be a large, robust newsroom,'' Mr. Baquet said. ''He said he didn't have a number, and I thought that opened the way for a conversation.''
 Mr. Johnson, who said last month that newspapers could not cut their way to the future, said last night that he did not regret the remarks, even if they led to his ouster. ''I still believe that you have to balance economic realities,'' he said, ''which have all of us cutting as many dollars as we can, with how you're going to grow in the future.'' 
 He said he and Scott Smith, president of Tribune Publishing, had been discussing his likely resignation since late last week. ''We got to the point where we both realized that we weren't going to agree on some of these issues,'' he said, adding that his discussions were independent of any talks about Mr. Baquet's future. 
 Colleagues of Mr. Johnson and Mr. Baquet greeted the news with a mixture of relief that Mr. Baquet was staying and regret that Mr. Johnson, a low-profile figure not well known in the newsroom, had essentially taken a bullet for the team. 
 ''We're very distressed that Jeff Johnson was shown the door, particularly after he took a stand for quality journalism,'' said Henry Weinstein, a legal affairs reporter. ''And we're obviously happy that Dean stayed,'' but many questions about the paper's financial future remain. 
 Tribune executives in Chicago were not surprised that Mr. Baquet and Mr. Johnson had objected to the staff cuts but were incensed that they went public, said several executives in Los Angeles, who asked not to be identified because they were not authorized to speak about the matter. The public comments were less tolerable coming from Mr. Johnson, a company loyalist for more than 20 years, who was the company's representative, the Los Angeles executives said. 
 Some employees on the business side of the paper also had grown increasingly frustrated with what they said was the Tribune's constant demand for higher profit while investing little back into the paper.
 Mr. Smith said in a statement that he and Mr. Johnson agreed on many of the paper's priorities and that the paper had made progress in the face of strong challenges. But, he said, ''this leadership change is necessary because of important differences on how best to shape our future.''
 There has been considerable internal concern that the paper's Web site has not kept pace with changes in the industry, and some saw the appointment of Mr. Hiller, who once led Tribune's interactive division, as a sign that Web site would get more attention. Mr. Hiller, a graduate of Harvard Law School and a former clerk to Justice Potter Stewart of the Supreme Court, assured employees in an e-mail message yesterday, ''I read and love newspapers.'' 
 He said he believed in their future, but ''to achieve that future we have to continue to change because our readers, online users and advertising customers continue to change.'' 
 The defiance from the top ranks of its biggest newspaper presented the Tribune Company with a potential public relations problem just as it was considering asset sales, under pressure from dissatisfied shareholders. Executives in Los Angeles said there was a divergence of views in Tribune's upper management over whether to put the entire company up for sale or break it up. 
 Either way, firing both the editor and publisher at the Los Angeles paper, its biggest property, would have risked upheaval. But keeping them both risked insubordination from other executives at Tribune's 10 other newspapers and two dozen television stations. Several billionaires who live in the Los Angeles area have expressed an interest in buying the paper.
 Like most metro dailies, The Times has been losing circulation and advertising revenues, some of it going to the Internet. But the Los Angeles market has problems unto itself. Los Angeles County is made up of 88 independent cities, a sprawling region that is difficult for any one organization to cover. It has absorbed a large influx of people who do not read English. And the entertainment industry, its chief advertiser, has pulled back on advertising. 
 Still, the newspaper says it had a relatively high profit margin of 20 percent, which made the demands by Tribune all that more difficult for the publisher and editor to accept. Mr. Baquet and Mr. Johnson said publicly last month that they were resisting a request to draw up a budget plan. A Tribune executive later said the plan would cut about 100 editorial employees, keep expenses flat for next year and set a blueprint to increase the paper's profits by 7 percent, or about $17 million.
 Mr. Johnson's resignation was under discussion for at least a week. A contingent of Tribune executives, including Scott Smith, went to Los Angeles on Wednesday. Reporters at the paper were tipped off that they were there. The Tribune executives met with Mr. Johnson in the morning, although it is not clear if he was fired then or had been alerted earlier.
 Shortly thereafter, Mr. Baquet met with Mr. Hiller. Mr. Baquet said they had made no deal beyond Mr. Hiller's saying he did not have a fixed number of job cuts in mind.
 Martin Kaplan, associate dean of the Annenberg School of Communication at the University of Southern California, said Mr. Baquet's staying was a hopeful sign.
 ''It's encouraging that over a cup of coffee, a man of integrity, Dean Baquet, found out enough about the future of the paper that he decided to stay,'' Mr. Kaplan said.
 Mr. Baquet's predecessor as editor, John Carroll, resigned last year, in part as a protest against Tribune's cost-cutting, and Mr. Baquet at the time considered quitting with him. He decided to stay on largely in hopes of persuading the company to ease up on that front, saying at the time that he was ''in sync enough with the people who own the joint'' to have accepted the editor's job. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (75%); PARENT COMPANIES (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%) Newspapers; Appointments and Executive Changes; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Biographical Information; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Newspapers

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (93%)

ORGANIZATION: Los Angeles Times; Tribune Co

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%)

PERSON: Katharine Q Seelye; Dean Baquet; Jeffrey M Johnson; David Hiller

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2006



116 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 103 words

HEADLINE: New Jobless Claims Reach Two-Month Low

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The number of Americans seeking first-time unemployment benefits fell last week to the lowest in more than two months, pointing to a resilient labor market even as the economy slows. 
 Initial jobless claims declined by a larger-than-expected 17,000, to 302,000, in the week that ended Sept. 30, the Labor Department said yesterday. The four-week moving average, a less volatile measure, fell to 313,500, from 316,250.
''Employers are hesitant to lay off workers because they know they might not be able to find anyone else,'' said Tim Rogers, of Briefing.com, a Boston forecasting firm. ''The labor market is still tight.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); NEWS BRIEFS (82%) Labor; Unemployment Insurance

COMPANY: BRIEFING.COM (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2006



117 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Street Scene; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: So Far, Always the Predator, Not the Prey 

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

DATELINE: LONDON, Oct. 5 

 BODY:
The latest deal by Standard Chartered, the British bank with a big Asian presence, may seem odd: It is paying a premium of more than 30 percent for Hsinchu of Taiwan, a bank saddled with bad credit card loans that has lost money so far this year. 
 But Standard Chartered has rarely followed a predictable course. And for years, it has defied critics' warnings that it was overpaying for deals, as well as market predictions that it would be gobbled up by a big global bank. 
With most of its operations in fast-growing economies from Pakistan to Singapore to the United Arab Emirates, and its largest concentration of customers and profits in Hong Kong, Standard Chartered is now in a position that makes it the envy of many of its investment and commercial banking peers in Europe and the United States. 
 Standard Chartered is in a prime spot to capitalize on some of the biggest trends in global finance, like the growing trade between China and Africa, and between the Middle East and Asia, and booming consumer lending in India. The bank's 150-year-old roots are in trade: specifically the trading routes of the British Empire, one reason it gets 90 percent of its profit from Asia, the Middle East and Africa. 
 Its chief executive, Mervyn Davies, a 53-year-old Welshman, acknowledges that Standard Chartered's astute growth in emerging markets may only make it more appealing for a bigger bank predator. But he certainly isn't encouraging any offers.
 ''Look, we are in the right place at the right time, and a lot of banks would like to have this franchise,'' Mr. Davies said in a recent interview in his art-laden London office. ''If they can manage it better, and can pay a huge premium to shareholders, in cash, well, that's my job -- my job is to create value.'' 
 With a market cap of $34 billion, Standard Chartered would be just a healthy snack for, say, Bank of America at nearly $250 billion. 
 But Standard Chartered's success may also be what helps it remain alone -- its shares trade at a healthy price-to-earnings ratio of 16.5, versus 12.8 for HSBC Holdings, its British rival in Asian markets. 
 Mr. Davies, a soccer enthusiast and runner, is in a good position to be challenging other banks. Operating income was up 15 percent in the first half of 2006, to $3.38 billion, even without last year's $3.3 billion acquisition of Korea First Bank (including the deal, they were up 27 percent). Most analysts are now giving Mr. Davies the thumbs up. 
 ''A purchase in Taiwan could be described as brave given the current credit card crisis, but we would rather use the term opportunistic,'' Dresdner Kleinwort analysts wrote in a recent report on Standard Chartered that they called, in a nod to the bank's new status, ''Predator Not Prey.''
 The deal for Hsinchu should enhance earnings by 2008, the Dresdner analysts noted, adding that they wish Standard Chartered ''was not so expensive'' presumably so they could recommend that shareholders buy more. 
 Credit Suisse added in a recent note: ''We are becoming increasingly confident of the prospect for accelerated growth in Standard Chartered's consumer businesses and its ability to absorb regional shocks.'' 
 Maybe that is because the bank has been through plenty. 
 First there was the severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS outbreak in 2003, Mr. Davies said, that ''stopped all travel in 14 countries.'' Then the tsunami, the Pakistan earthquake and ''floods the like of which the planet has never seen'' in areas like Bangladesh, and the impact of H.I.V. and AIDS ''in a very big way'' on the bank's African business. Their next difficulties may well come from competition. ''There is a war for talent in banking,'' Mr. Davies acknowledged. 
 Even if bigger global banks come knocking, Standard Chartered has the edge in some of these countries, he said, because of both its long history and its very active social programs. 
 For example, the bank plans to restore sight to one million people by 2007 through a campaign that pays for eye doctors and cataract operations in 20 countries. 
 The bank's operations in more than 50 countries mean that Mr. Davies spends the majority of his time outside headquarters. Last week was ''particularly bad,'' he noted: he flew to Singapore for one day, then New York for three and then to Europe for one. 
 Thanks in part to Mr. Davies's tireless schedule, analysts aren't counting on a deal anytime soon. ''It's a perennial target,'' said Michael Helsby, an analyst with Fox-Pitt, Kelton. But he noted, ''they are fiercely independent, and intend to be so.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Under Mervyn Davies, Standard Chartered has acquired banks in developing areas, where it has a long history in financing trade. (Photo by Grischa Rueschendorf/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); TRENDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%); DIVESTITURES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%); ACQUISITIONS (62%); SHAREHOLDERS (62%) Banks and Banking; International Trade and World Market; Banks and Banking; Credit; Economic Conditions and Trends; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: STANDARD CHARTERED BANK (TAIWAN) LTD (92%); HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Standard Chartered Plc; Hsinchu Bank

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (58%); HSB (PAR) (58%); HBC (NYSE) (58%); 0005 (HKSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: Mervyn Davis; Heather Timmons

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) TAIWAN (93%); ASIA (93%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); HONG KONG (92%); MIDDLE EAST (91%); PAKISTAN (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (73%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (58%) Great Britain; Europe; Singapore; Pakistan; United Arab Emirates; Hong Kong; China; Africa; Middle East; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; India

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2006



118 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Antiques; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1041 words

BYLINE: By Wendy Moonan

 BODY:

The Art of Wooded Valleys Found in Cotswold School
 Along with their European counterparts, a few American antiques dealers are starting to concentrate on particular styles made in the late 1800's and early 1900's.
 Among them is the Philadelphia gallery John Alexander Ltd., which yesterday celebrated its 10th anniversary. John Levitties, its 39-year-old owner, is passionate about furniture made in Britain from 1860 to 1920 in the Reformed Gothic, Aesthetic and Arts and Crafts Movement styles, whose designers include William Morris, Philip Webb, Ernest Gimson, M. H. Baillie-Scott and C. H. Ashbee.
''What ties these British styles together is the philosophy that underlies the designers' efforts,'' Mr. Levitties said. ''Before the Arts and Crafts in Britain was a style or a fashion, it was a theory, an approach to design. The designers believed there should be beauty in the objects they surrounded themselves with, beauty derived from both function and aesthetic merit.'' 
 Much of this furniture looks plain until one studies its turned legs, carving, hand-wrought hardware and fine craftsmanship. It also tends to be lighter than American Arts and Crafts work, though it carries the same utopian overtones.
 ''The products of the Arts and Crafts movement are the embodiment of the idea that people can shape and are shaped by their environment, by the products they encounter and use every day,'' Mr. Levitties said. ''The designers believed the right sort of design and production imbue both the maker and the user with a moral purpose.''
 Mr. Levitties has just opened a show of furniture from the Cotswold School (through Nov. 25; information: johnalexanderltd.com). The Cotswold School was formed by Arts and Crafts designers who began leaving London in 1890 for the country, specifically the wooded valleys of the south Cotswolds. Their work came to be heavily influenced by what they discovered in the countryside.
 ''The earliest designs used local woods like oak, walnut and chestnut, and vernacular forms like ladder-back, rush-seated chairs,'' Mr. Levitties said. ''For decorative details they borrowed ideas such as chipped carving, which farmers used to do to decorate farm implements, and chamfered edges shaped by a draw knife.''
 He is particularly fond of a 1923 stool designed by Gordon Russell, a follower of William Morris. Made of oak, it has pencil-post legs with chamfered corners and a leather thong seat. What makes it special is the way the thongs are bound on the apron.
 ''They are laced through the side in a decorative pattern that creates an incredibly graphic effect,'' Mr. Levitties said. ''A traditional material, historicized form and thong motif are combined in a form that hadn't been done before. It sings.''
 Prices for the Cotswold pieces range from $1,850 to $65,000. 

Zeisel Ceramics on Display
 The International Art and Design Fair, which opens today at the Seventh Regiment Armory, includes an extensive loan exhibition of work by Eva Zeisel, the eminent modern designer of American mass-produced ceramics. It was organized by the Bard Graduate Center and Ronald T. Labaco, a design historian and former assistant to Ms. Zeisel, who turns 100 next month. Ms. Zeisel, credited with designing the first truly modern porcelain dinnerware in the United States, had the first one-woman design show at the Museum of Modern Art, in 1946. She is a playful designer who uses curves to temper any hard edges in her modern designs.
 Born in Hungary, Ms. Zeisel, then Eva Amalia Striker, studied at the Royal Academy of Fine Arts, Budapest, before her apprenticeship with a master potter. By 18 she was already in the potter's guild and had embarked on a career. 
 Her crucial encounter with modernism came when she saw Le Corbusier's pavilion at the 1925 Exposition Universelle in Paris; she was intrigued but found his brand of modernism too doctrinaire. 
 After holding several jobs in Germany, in 1932 she visited the Soviet Union. The visit turned into a five-year stay as she worked with several ceramic firms, including the former Imperial Porcelain Factory. By age 29 she was the artistic director of the Soviet china and glass industry. 
 Then came disaster.
 ''At the height of my success I suddenly found myself imprisoned, accused of 'successfully executing an attempt on Stalin's life,' '' she told Mr. Labaco in an interview published in the show's catalog. ''I spent 16 months in the Leningrad prison.''
 Put into solitary confinement, she was tricked into giving a false confession and then attempted suicide. But she was unexpectedly released in 1937 and made her way to Vienna. 
 ''She was friends with Arthur Koestler, and when she related her story to him, he used it as the basis of his novel 'Darkness at Noon,' '' Mr. Labaco said.
 When Hitler entered Austria, she fled to Switzerland and then went to England, where she married the economist Hans Zeisel. In 1938 the couple moved to America. A job teaching ceramic design at Pratt Institute led to a position at Castleton China in Pennsylvania, where she designed the modern porcelain later shown at the Modern, which is now called ''The Museum'' pattern.
 Why does her work still appeal to buyers?
 ''The shapes are not exaggerated,'' Mr. Labaco said. ''Rather than repeat a single shape throughout a set, Zeisel introduces a family of forms -- circles, rounded squares and ovals -- to individual pieces and to relieve what she called the monotony of many modern designs.'' Certain pieces, he added, ''may be distant cousins, but they are all still related.''

East Coast Dealers at Fair
 Marty Ellis, a veteran organizer from Los Angeles, opens the four-day Fall Antiques and Fine Art Fair today at St. Paul the Apostle Roman Catholic Church on Columbus Avenue at 60th Street. The church auditorium will have booths for 30 East Coast dealers. Gordon Converse focuses on antique clocks. Leonard Fox carries books about early-20th-century fashion. Gary Sergeant offers British and Continental antiques. Les Temps Passes shows French furniture. Nula Thanhauser sells vintage purses.
 The fair is in its second year. ''This fair offers a comfortable atmosphere for the serious collector and the seriously interested,'' Mr. Ellis said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Oak stool designed by Gordon Russell, from around 1923, in a show of Cotswold School furniture at the John Alexander gallery in Philadelphia. (Photo by John Alexander Ltd.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (78%); FURNITURE MFG (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (61%) Antiques; International Art and Design Fair; Fall Antiques and Fine Art Fair; Ceramics and Pottery; Furniture; Antiques

PERSON: Wendy Moonan; John Levitties; Eva Zeisel; Marty Ellis

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (91%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2006



119 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 119 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing Washington: Reversal In Medicare Suit 

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
The case of the erroneous refunds took another turn for an estimated 230,000 Medicare beneficiaries. The federal government sent out $50 million in refunds in August, then told recipients they had to return the money, which averaged $215. About half did. A district judge ordered the government to send back all repayments and let people know that they might be able to keep the money if they proved economic hardship. In response to a government appeal, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit put a hold on the lower court's ruling on Wednesday and scheduled arguments on the case in January. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services said it would continue to seek repayment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (91%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (88%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (87%); VERDICTS (87%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (87%); APPEALS COURTS (86%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (84%); JUDGES (84%); MEDICAID (57%) Medicine and Health; Medicare; Suits and Litigation; Decisions and Verdicts

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2006



120 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: The War Against Wages

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Should we be cheering over the fact that the Dow Jones Industrial Average has finally set a new record? No. The Dow is doing well largely because American employers are waging a successful war against wages. Economic growth since early 2000, when the Dow reached its previous peak, hasn't been exceptional. But after-tax corporate profits have more than doubled, because workers' productivity is up, but their wages aren't -- and because companies have dealt with rising health insurance premiums by denying insurance to ever more workers. 
 If you want to see how the war against wages is being fought, and what it's doing to working Americans and their families, consider the latest news from Wal-Mart. 
Wal-Mart already has a well-deserved reputation for paying low wages and offering few benefits to its employees; last year, an internal Wal-Mart memo conceded that 46 percent of its workers' children were either on Medicaid or lacked health insurance. Nonetheless, the memo expressed concern that wages and benefits were rising, in part ''because we pay an associate more in salary and benefits as his or her tenure increases.''
 The problem from the company's point of view, then, is that its workers are too loyal; it wants cheap labor that doesn't hang around too long, but not enough workers quit before acquiring the right to higher wages and benefits. Among the policy changes the memo suggested to deal with this problem was a shift to hiring more part-time workers, which ''will lower Wal-Mart's health care enrollment.'' 
 And the strategy is being put into effect. ''Investment analysts and store managers,'' reports The New York Times, ''say Wal-Mart executives have told them the company wants to transform its work force to 40 percent part-time from 20 percent.'' Another leaked Wal-Mart memo describes a plan to impose wage caps, so that long-term employees won't get raises. And the company is taking other steps to keep workers from staying too long: in some stores, according to workers, ''managers have suddenly barred older employees with back or leg problems from sitting on stools.'' 
 It's a brutal strategy. Once upon a time a company that treated its workers this badly would have made itself a prime target for union organizers. But Wal-Mart doesn't have to worry about that, because it knows that these days the people who are supposed to enforce labor laws are on the side of the employers, not the workers.
 Since 1935, U.S. workers considering whether to join a union have been protected by the National Labor Relations Act, which bars employers from firing workers for engaging in union activities. For a long time the law was effective: workers were reasonably well protected against employer intimidation, and the union movement flourished.
 In the 1970's, however, employers began a successful campaign to roll back unions. This campaign depended on routine violation of labor law: experts estimate that by 1980 employers were illegally firing at least one out of every 20 workers who voted for a union. But employers rarely faced serious consequences for their lawbreaking, thanks to America's political shift to the right. And now that the shift to the right has gone even further, political appointees are seeking to remove whatever protection for workers' rights that the labor relations law still provides. 
 The Republican majority on the National Labor Relations Board, which is responsible for enforcing the law, has just declared that millions of workers who thought they had the right to join unions don't. You see, the act grants that right only to workers who aren't supervisors. And the board, ruling on a case involving nurses, has declared that millions of workers who occasionally give other workers instructions can now be considered supervisors. 
 As the dissent from the Democrats on the board makes clear, the majority bent over backward, violating the spirit of the law, to reduce workers' bargaining power.
 So what's keeping paychecks down? Major employers like Wal-Mart have decided that their interests are best served by treating workers as a disposable commodity, paid as little as possible and encouraged to leave after a year or two. And these employers don't worry that angry workers will respond to their war on wages by forming unions, because they know that government officials, who are supposed to protect workers' rights, will do everything they can to come down on the side of the wage-cutters. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (94%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); BONDS (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); FAMILY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); MEDICAID (75%); DEREGULATION (75%); OLDER WORKERS (72%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (72%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (70%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (70%) Labor; Organized Labor; Stocks and Bonds; Wages and Salaries; Fringe Benefits; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Part-Time Employment; Productivity; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Labor; Dow Jones Industrial Average

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (56%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (56%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (57%) Paul Krugman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2006



121 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2006 CAMPAIGN; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Pentecostal and Charismatic Groups Growing

BYLINE: By LAURIE GOODSTEIN

 BODY:
A survey of Pentecostal and charismatic Christians in 10 countries in Asia, Africa and the Americas shows they are gaining converts and are more politically engaged than experts had thought.
 Only 100 years since the birth of Pentecostalism in a street revival in Los Angeles, the movement has grown to include one in four Christians worldwide -- or about half a billion people, according to the study. It was released Thursday by the Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life, a research group in Washington.
Pentecostals are Christians who belong to denominations that practice what they call ''the gifts of the Holy Spirit,'' like speaking in tongues, prophesying and praying for divine healings. Charismatics have adopted some Pentecostal practices, but belong to other churches, mostly Roman Catholic and Protestant. The Pew survey used the word ''Renewalists'' as an umbrella term to describe Pentecostals and Charismatics. 
 The survey (available online at pewforum.org/surveys/pentecostal) found that in Brazil, Guatemala and Kenya, about half the population or more were renewalist Christians. In many of the countries studied, a majority of the Protestants were renewalists, and in Latin American countries, many left Roman Catholic churches for Pentecostal ones. Change has happened quickly, in part because Pentecostals and charismatics are far more likely than other Christians to say they share their faith at least once a week with nonbelievers, the survey shows.
 ''Pentecostal beliefs and practices are literally reshaping the face of Christianity throughout the developing world,'' said Luis Lugo, director of the Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life, in a telephone news conference on Thursday.
 Renewalists and evangelicals are often political allies, and share some beliefs, like the authority of the Bible and that Jesus is the only way to salvation. But renewalists and evangelicals are not synonymous. Many evangelicals are critical of Pentecostal religious practices, and their missionaries often regard one another as rivals.
 The survey looked at 10 countries where renewalists are numerous: the United States, where it found 23 percent of the population were renewalists; Brazil had 49 percent; Chile, 30 percent; Guatemala, 60 percent; Kenya, 56 percent; Nigeria, 26 percent; South Africa, 34 percent; the Philippines, 44 percent; South Korea, 11 percent; and India, 5 percent. 
 The data was based on national samples except in Brazil, South Africa and South Korea, where the survey group was disproportionately urban, and in India, where surveys were conducted in districts of three states with large Christian populations. 
 In many of the 10 nations, majorities of the overall population are conservative on issues like homosexuality, divorce and alcohol consumption, but the survey showed that renewalists were even more likely than their countrymen to hold conservative views on those issues. 
 In the past, Pentecostals had been known as rather apolitical, being more inclined toward ''supernatural'' and ''other worldly'' solutions to their problems, Mr. Lugo said. But the survey found that Pentecostals and charismatics were likely to say that religious groups should be involved in politics, and that it was important for political leaders to be religious. They are also highly concerned about what they see as moral decline.
 John C. Green, senior fellow in religion and American politics at the Pew Forum, said, ''This is a group much more interested in politics and public affairs than we anticipated.''
 Renewalist Christianity has won converts because of its exuberant and joyous worship, its adaptability to local cultures and its creation of communal networks that provide social and economic support for new urban migrants in these developing countries. 
 But its decentralization and diversity means it will probably not move in lockstep politically or theologically, said Harvey G. Cox Jr., professor of divinity at Harvard Divinity School, after reading the Pew report. 
 ''Part of this enormous growth pattern is enormous fragmentation,'' said Professor Cox, the author of ''Fire from Heaven: The Rise of Pentecostal Spirituality and the Reshaping of Religion in the Twenty-First Century.''
 ''The authority system is very decentralized,'' he said. ''Even in the big denominations like the Assemblies of God, they have precious little control over what the congregations do.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 11, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A chart on Friday with an article about the growth in the number of Pentecostal and charismatic Christians in 10 countries referred incorrectly to Guatemala. It is in Central America, not South America.

GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Counting Renewalists''A recent survey reveals the prevalence of renewalist Christians in countries around the world.*Graph tracks percent of renewalist Christians in the following countries:United StatesBrazilChileGuatemalaKenyaNigeriaSouth AfricaPhilippinesSouth Korea*The survery used the word ''renewalists'' as an umbrella term to describe Pentecostals and charismatic Christians.Based on face-to-face interviews conducted for the Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life from May to July, except in the United States, where telephone interviews were conducted from July to September.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (99%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (96%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (93%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); INTERVIEWS (86%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) Christians and Christianity; Pentecostal Church

ORGANIZATION: Pew Center on Religion and Public Life

PERSON: Laurie Goodstein

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (93%); ASIA (93%); AFRICA (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); INDIA (92%); KENYA (92%); GUATEMALA (90%); NIGERIA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (73%); CHILE (70%) Africa; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2006



122 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Big Ideas and No Boundaries

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
My rabbi told this joke on Yom Kippur: At the front of the lunch line at a parochial school was a bowl of apples with a sign that read: ''Take only one. God is watching.'' At the end of the lunch line, after the entrees, was a bowl of cookies, where a student had put up a sign: ''Take all you want. God is watching the apples.''
 Somehow that joke reminds me of the debate about free trade in America today. Right now, with the Republicans in charge, free trade is secure. Yet, while everyone is watching the front of the line, out back in the country, an erosion of support for free trade is under way. The ''Doha'' trade talks have stalled, because of opposition by U.S. farmers, and the White House's ''fast-track'' authority to negotiate free trade agreements expires soon. With protectionist-leaning Democrats likely to take the House or Senate, any new free-trade accords will probably be stalled. 
I hope Democrats won't go this route. I've always believed in free trade, accompanied by better pension and health care safety nets. But I'm not a free trader anymore. I'm now a radical free trader. Why? Because in this new era of globalization, so many people now have the communication and innovation tools to compete, connect and collaborate from anywhere. As a result, business rule No. 1 today is: Whatever can be done will be done by someone, somewhere. The only question is whether it will be done by you or to you. In such a world, the way our society flourishes is by being as educated, open and flexible as possible, so more of our people can do whatever can be done first. It matters that Google was invented here.
 ''That society which has the least resistance to the uninterrupted flow of ideas, diversity, concepts and competitive signals wins,'' says Nandan Nilekani, C.E.O. of the Indian tech giant Infosys. ''And the society that has the efficiencies to translate whatever can be done quickly -- from idea to market -- also wins.''
 The old left thinks free trade is something that benefits only multinationals. In fact, it is now critical for small businesses and individuals, who can now act multinationally. They are the ones who create good jobs.
 Last week, I was in Nebraska, where I met Doug Palmer. He and his partner, Pat Boeshart, make insulated concrete forms for buildings. The traditional way to insulate concrete with foam is to make the foam and then truck it around the country to building sites to be attached to concrete. Mr. Palmer's company, Lite-Form, found a Korean machine that, when combined with devices added by his firm, can make the foam and concrete together on site, saving big dollars in trucking. Today, Mr. Palmer's South Sioux City company imports these machines from Korea, attaches its devices and exports them to Kuwait. His company has an Arabic brochure that tells Kuwaitis how to use the device. The brochure was produced by a local ad agency owned by the Winnebago Indian tribe of Nebraska. The agency was started by the tribe's economic development corporation. Midwest Indians publishing Arabic brochures for Nebraskans importing from Koreans for customers in Kuwait 
 ''Protectionism scares me,'' said Mr. Palmer, who has 28 employees. ''If we put up a moat and keep doing what we're doing, thinking we're the smartest in the world, we're going to die. We have to have that flexibility to barter and trade.''
 A few days later, in Silicon Valley, I met Arijit Sengupta, a young Indian-American educated at Stanford, whose company, ''BeyondCore,'' developed a software algorithm able to detect and reduce errors in outsourced back-office work. When I met Mr. Sengupta, he handed me a card with his logo, which, he explained, was designed by a graphic artist he found online in Romania. His database and Web server are freeware, and he has outsourced his marketing, sales support and patent filings to Indian firms. When I asked, ''Where's your office?'' he held up his BlackBerry, which takes calls forwarded from numbers in India, Boston and Palo Alto. He and his seven workers already have one Fortune 500 client.
 ''When I started this company I never had to think about geography,'' he said. ''All I had to think about was: Where was the best resource to get something done. What you need are the big ideas. That is the tough thing to come up with.''
 The way you keep good jobs in this country is not by building big walls, but by attracting people with big ideas -- and then giving them the freedom to do whatever can be done with anyone, anywhere, anytime. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); YOM KIPPUR (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (72%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%); JOB CREATION (50%) International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (53%); INFOSYS LTD (52%); LITE-FORM (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (53%); INFY (PAR) (52%); INFY (NYSE) (52%); INFY (NSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (52%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (52%); SIC3086 PLASTICS FOAM PRODUCTS (50%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (52%) Thomas L Friedman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2006



123 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: With Mind Over Muscle, Crafty Old Men Keep Going

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON. 
E-mail: hjaraton@nytimes.com

 BODY:
''How long are they going to worship this guy?'' Tom Glavine once said to Greg Maddux in a television commercial, while Mark McGwire belted batting practice home runs to the cheers of fans and squeals of the blond bombshell Heather Locklear.
 In that celebrated 1999 Nike spot, Maddux trotted out his own groupie come-on, ''Hey, we got Cy Young winners over here,'' before both pitchers came to the decade-defining realization that ''Chicks dig the long ball.'' 
 Fast forward seven years, with McGwire long gone and widely viewed in disrepute, to the National League division series, which last night starred Glavine -- no virgin to the pressure chamber of postseason baseball -- as a 40-year-old virtuoso.
 An anticipated match-up of the erstwhile Atlanta aces did not materialize because Dodgers Manager Grady Little started the Taiwanese left-hander Hong Chih Kuo against Glavine in Game 2 at Shea Stadium. Given the Mets' late-season problems with left-handers, it was not an unreasonable hunch, and Kuo wasn't half bad. But he was no match for Glavine, whose six-inning, four-hit, no-run performance spurred the Mets to a 4-1 victory and a 2-0 series lead.
 All that stands between them and the National League Championship Series now is Maddux, the Dodgers' Game 3 starter tomorrow in Los Angeles. He combines with Glavine for 80 years and 623 career victories and, like Glavine, not only survived and thrived in the now-disgraced muscle-over-mind era, but also outlasted it.
 ''Hey, have you guys seen Mark?'' Locklear asked Glavine and Maddux at the commercial's end, even after they had hit the weights and supposedly bulked up.
 Not lately, or since McGwire stammered like the cat who swallowed his confession at the Congressional hearings on baseball's steroid crisis in March 2005.
 True, Glavine and Maddux are not what they were, but they did win 15 games apiece this season. Much is made of their pitch limits, especially in the case of Maddux, who averaged 76 in nine starts with the Dodgers after he was acquired from the Cubs. 
 But on the Los Angeles staff, only Derek Lowe (218) threw more innings this season than Maddux (210), while Glavine led the Mets with 198. He could have pitched past the sixth last night, but Mets Manager Willie Randolph had to pinch-hit Julio Franco for him with the bases loaded in the sixth and the Mets nursing a 2-0 lead.
 ''If you pitch 200 innings, stay out there long enough, something good will happen,'' Maddux said. And that's how he rated Glavine's effort -- ''mixed it up good, location good, movement good.''
 He was all good, this cool-hand Glavine of yore, masterfully changing speeds, nibbling at the corners, never giving in. More than halfway through the first decade of the 21st century, how sweet it was to watch a thinking man's holdover from the 1990's keep hitters wondering, as the Mets' Cliff Floyd said, ''What the heck is this guy trying to do?''
 When all is said and done on baseball's steroid scourge, the thunderbolt across the sky will remain its sexiest sell. But here in October, it is typically the mental part of the game -- those split-second decisions made under duress -- that leaves us memorably entertained, precipitating the plays that are unforeseen.
 Better than most, Grady Little knows what it's like to be second-guessed from here to the unemployment line, but even he was aghast by Jeff Kent and J. D. Drew in the second inning of Game 1 when, on the same play, the Mets recorded two outs at home, killing a potential big inning for the Dodgers in a game they would lose, 6-5.
 The Dodgers will be haunted by the base-running brain lock should they lose this series, while the Mets may come to remember it as the moment they transformed from the team that blew away the National League this season to, amazingly enough, one with the aura of a post-season upstart.
 For all the tough talk about unwavering expectation, they are playing with house money now that Martinez is gone and Orlando Hernandez has likely thrown his last pitch as well.
 ''The best thing we can do to make the absence of those guys less is to go out there and score a bunch of runs and take all the pressure off our pitcher,'' Glavine said.
 That didn't happen last night but the Mets were plenty resourceful. Inserted in right field by Randolph in place of Shawn Green, Endy Chavez figured in the Mets' first two runs with his bat and legs. Franco, 48, legged out a fielder's choice to drive in the Mets' third run and keep the sixth inning alive for Jose Reyes to drive in a fourth. And don't discount runners moved along by Glavine in his two at-bats, both of whom scored.
 After waiting four years in New York to return to the postseason he took for granted in Atlanta, this is what Glavine thought he would miss when a circulatory condition left his pitching hand cold and a fear that his season was over ran down his spine.
 ''This is what I wanted to be part of,'' he said in the interview room after waiting for Randolph to finish and taking a light punch on the shoulder from the ex-Met, John Franco.
 ''Good job,'' Franco told him. ''Way to pitch.''
 Glavine smiled and made his way to the front of the room, the ace-by-default, the Cy Young winner over here, who last night made Mets fans dig the smart man and the slow ball.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Glavine gave up four hits and no runs over six innings in his first playoff start for the Mets. (Photo by Barton Silverman/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (74%); SPORTS (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION (74%); TOURNAMENTS (73%); STEROIDS (63%) Baseball; Sports of the Times (Times Column); Playoff Games; Age, Chronological

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (93%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (83%) New York Mets

PERSON: Harvey Araton; Tom Glavine

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (87%) CALIFORNIA, USA (87%); NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2006



124 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 125 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Queens: Man Indicted In Shootings 

BYLINE: NYT; Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
An unemployed bricklayer has been indicted on murder and other charges after an August shooting spree in which six people were shot, one fatally, prosecutors said yesterday. The suspect, Matthew Colletta, 34, of Woodhaven, left, faces a total of 57 charges, including murder, attempted murder and weapons possession, said Richard A. Brown, the Queens district attorney. Mr. Brown said Mr. Colletta is charged with shooting at people in 10 instances in a six-hour period on Aug. 25. Todd Upton, 51, who was in the passenger seat of a minivan on the Cross Island Parkway, was killed by a shot to the neck, he said. The police seized two pistols and two bags of cocaine when they arrested Mr. Colletta, Mr. Brown said. Mr. Colletta has pleaded not guilty. 

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (93%); MURDER (91%); INDICTMENTS (91%); FIREARMS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); COCAINE (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%) Murders and Attempted Murders

PERSON: Matthew Colletta; Todd (Murder Victim) Upton

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2006



125 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: Farm's Day Is Done, but What of the Elk and Llama?

BYLINE: By ANAHAD O'CONNOR

DATELINE: CATSKILL, N.Y. Oct. 2 

 BODY:
For three-quarters of a century, exotic animals have sidled up to fences at the Catskill Game Farm here to nibble food from the hands of visitors.
 Adults and children alike can slip crackers through a fence onto the waiting blue tongue of a 15-foot-tall giraffe, bottle-feed a baby goat at the park's nursery, or walk over to the petting zoo where deer and llamas clamor for attention.
But on Monday, the game farm will shut its gates for the last time, the latest casualty of a struggling economy in upstate New York. And though the fate of the farm is all but certain, the future for many of the animals is not.
 About 1,000 are set to be auctioned off later this month -- including elk, antelope, rhinos, monkeys, snakes, alligators and tortoises -- and there is concern that many may land in poorly run roadside zoos or in the hands of collectors with no guarantee for their well-being. 
 Most of all, there is fear by residents in the area that scores of the animals will end up at hunting ranches, where trophy hunters pay thousands of dollars to shoot exotic animals in fenced areas in so-called canned hunts.
 ''Most of the animals that are bred at the game farm are prized for their meat and are perfect canned hunt targets,'' said Kirsti Gholson, who lives in Woodstock and helped form a local coalition, Advocates for Game Farm Animals, to find homes for the animals. ''We are extremely worried about them ending up in those types of facilities.'' Canned hunts have drawn harsh criticism from animal rights groups and some prominent hunting organizations because the animals have little chance to escape, and are sometimes drugged.
 Allegations that the Catskill Game Farm has sold animals to hunting ranches have dogged the operation for several years now. At least two major zoos have refused to send animals to the game farm for that reason.
 Now the possibility that some of the farm's tame, hand-fed animals could end up as easy targets for hunters has drawn the attention of local residents, some lawmakers and animal advocates. 
 They have pleaded with the owner of the farm to donate the animals to more than a dozen sanctuaries that have offered to take them. And they have urged the federal government to oversee the auction on Oct. 18. 
 ''These are exotic animals that are accustomed to people,'' said Brian Shapiro, a member of the Ulster County Legislature and chairman of its Environmental Committee. ''They have brought a lot of joy to families and to children. It just doesn't seem right for these animals that have been eating biscuits from our hands for years to be sent off to slaughter or to a hunting ranch.''
 More than a thousand people have signed a petition urging the state to subsidize the operation or designate the 1,000-acre farm a state park. One group is planning a protest on the road outside the park tomorrow.
 A few potential buyers have made private offers to Kathie Schulz, the owner of the farm, a family-run business for 73 years. But none of those buyers were taken seriously, she said, adding that the cost of operating the farm have grown so steeply that at this point its fate is sealed.
 She said every precaution would be taken to see that the animals are sold to licensed dealers who will treat them humanely.
 ''We are trying to do everything possible to ensure that these animals go to good homes,'' she said. ''That's very important to us. It took us years to collect these animals, and we don't want them hanging on somebody's wall either.''
 But many who are concerned about the future of the animals say those assurances mean little. While dealers generally must have licenses to purchase animals at an auction, there are no laws forbidding a buyer from turning around and selling animals to hunting ranches.
 Started in 1933 by Ms. Schulz's father, Roland Lindemann, the game farm was once known around the world for the rare and exotic animals it imported. 
 But to generations of upstate New Yorkers, the game farm was the mountainside hideaway that was unlike any other zoo, a place where visitors could step beyond fences to feed or play with gentle animals. 
 On a recent warm afternoon, a tree-size giraffe strolled toward a fence to greet a visitor and open its mouth, hoping for a biscuit. Pygmy goats climbed on rocks and jostled for attention. Small deer followed children through the petting zoo.
 For many people, like Stacey Ulrich, visiting the farm is a tradition. Ms. Ulrich, who lives nearby in the town of Owego and has been going to the farm with her family since she was a child, said she now takes her 5- and 10-year-old daughters every year. 
 ''I'm heartbroken,'' she said. ''This has been such a mainstay of the community that a lot of people are sad. My kids are just devastated.''
 The farm, however, has had its share of notoriety. In recent years, animal advocates complained that as the zoo was running low on money, it was falling into a state of disrepair and its animals were suffering. On several occasions, the farm was cited by federal inspectors for things like exposing animals to ''significant injury hazards'' and failing to provide medical care to a lame giraffe and an injured elephant.
 The farm also came under fire from the San Francisco Zoo and the Toronto Zoo, which stopped doing business with the game farm because, officials at those zoos said, they had discovered that it was selling animals to canned hunt operations in Texas. 
 Inspection records from the Texas Animal Health Commission show that about 150 animals including zebra, deer and bison were shipped to Texas from the game farm between 2001 and 2004.
 Where those animals ended up once they entered Texas is unclear, but records show that only five camels and two zebras were later shipped out of the Texas.
 Don Elroy, the director of Wildlife Advocacy for the Humane Society of the United States, said it was no mystery where the rest of those animals went. ''They are invariably going to canned hunts,'' he said.
 But Ms. Schulz said the records were confusing because she shares an operating permit with her ex-husband, Jurgen C. Schulz, who owns an exotic-animal import business of his own in Texas.
 ''Unfortunately, our permits were run together as one instead of separately, and that made it look like Bambi was coming out of the zoo and going to canned hunts,'' she said.
 When the park closes on Monday, some animals will remain behind, possibly for a breeding business, and some others, like a group of cougars and some horses, will go to sanctuaries. But a vast majority will be sold off. 
 ''Nobody is sorrier than I am to have to close it,'' Ms. Schulz said. ''But I have to make a decision with my head, not my heart, and it's just not financially feasible to keep it open.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Some residents near the Catskill Game Farm are concerned that animals there will be shipped off to exotic game hunting camps when the farm closes on Monday. (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Diane Kelso and Frank Wyman befriend a camel at the Catskill Game Farm, which is scheduled to close on Monday and sell its animals. (Photo by Jim McKnight/Associated Press)(pg. B4)Map of New York State highlighting Catskill Game Farm: The Catskill Game Farm will close after 73 years in business. (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMALS (91%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); COMMERCIAL HUNTING & TRAPPING (90%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FAMILY (77%); COUNTIES (67%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (65%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (63%) Animals; Auctions; Shutdowns (Institutional)

ORGANIZATION: Catskill Game Farm

PERSON: Anahad O'Connor

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Catskill (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2006



126 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: From 3 Finalists in Aquarium's Redesign, Swoops, Swirls and Great Water Views 

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
City officials yesterday unveiled three finalists in the competition to design a new exterior for the New York Aquarium, marking progress toward what would be its first significant renovation since it opened in Coney Island in 1957. 
 The three designs -- by the firms WRT; Smith-Miller & Hawkinson Architects; and West 8 in collaboration with Weisz & Yoes Architecture -- were winnowed from about 25 submitted since the city's Economic Development Corporation and the Wildlife Conservation Society announced the competition in June.
 The society owns and operates the aquarium, which is on city parkland. 
 ''We also think the aquarium can be iconic,'' said Joshua J. Sirefman, interim president of the development corporation. ''We want to change it into a 21st-century institution.''
 Originally housed in Lower Manhattan from 1896 to 1941, and since 1957 tucked into a 14-acre walled campus along Surf Avenue, the Aquarium for Wildlife Conservation gets about 750,000 visitors a year, mostly city residents. 
 But even fans have long complained that it is too isolated from the surrounding neighborhood, not to mention the ocean a few yards away.
 ''It's built like a fortress. It's surrounded by walls, and the only entrance is through the parking lot,'' said Charles Denson, the author of ''Coney Island: Lost and Found.'' ''And it's below the level of the Boardwalk, so when you're in the aquarium you can't actually see the water.''
 The new design, according to the competition guidelines, must be ''visually porous, engaging and inviting.'' 
 The Smith-Miller and Hawkinson design replaces the wall between the aquarium and the Boardwalk with an undulating wave fence that opens to the Boardwalk at several points. 
 The design by West 8 and Weisz & Yoes, by contrast, hides some parking lots under manmade sand dunes, cut through with looping pathways.
 ''It's very important that people going to the aquarium have the experience of going to the beachfront again,'' said Jerry van Eyck of West 8.
 All of the designs are environmentally friendly, using phosphorescent paints or solar-powered lights to blend in with Coney Island's neon cacophony. 
 The final design must also create a ''beacon for Coney Island,'' according to the guidelines.
 To that end, one design incorporates a giant, glowing jellyfish resting on its tendrils. 
 The WRT design features an undulating enclosure, an interpretation of the nearby Cyclone roller coaster's swoops and swirls.
 It resembles an enormous whale, as though Moby Dick had lunged ashore and swallowed the aquarium whole.
 Any of the models unveiled last night would make the aquarium much harder to miss. 
 City officials described a redesigned and more prominent aquarium as a key component of the broader Coney Island redevelopment plans that have gestated, mostly on paper, for several years. 
 With a new hotel, high-end retail stores, and an indoor water park, city officials and developers hope to convert Coney Island from a seasonal beach community to a year-round tourist destination.
 ''The aquarium is a critical anchor for Coney Island, especially if it's that much more physically integrated into Coney Island,'' Mr. Sirefman said. ''People who come to a Cyclones game or to the amusements should be going to the aquarium.''
 City development officials, in consultation with community leaders and the conservation society, expect to choose a final design this fall.
 ''This is the oldest aquarium in the country,'' said Paul Boyle, its director. ''The question is, how do we create a statement that the aquarium is here, and at the same time, support the expansion for major new features?''
 ''This will help us grow into our future,'' Mr. Boyle said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A competition to redesign the New York Aquarium challenged architects to make the waterfront attraction more prominent. The finalists, chosen from among 25 entries, are inspired by sea life and sand dunes (Photo by Smith-Miller & Hawkinson Architects)
(Photo by WRT)
 (Photo by Weisz & Yoes Architecture)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); CITIES (90%); WILDLIFE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (79%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); MARINE MAMMALS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (77%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (75%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (65%); SOLAR ENERGY (50%) Aquariums; Contests and Prizes; Restoration and Rehabilitation

ORGANIZATION: WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (57%) New York Aquarium

PERSON: Nicholas Confessore

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2006



127 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 916 words

 BODY:

RUSSIA AS ENVIRONMENTALIST -- Now that the Russian government is seeking to stall huge oil projects in eastern Siberia by Royal Dutch Shell and Exxon Mobil, it has suddenly discovered its inner environmentalist. [Page C1.]

OPEC MAY CUT OUTPUT -- The OPEC oil cartel sent energy markets on a roller coaster, saying it was considering cutting output. Some of the group's members indicated they were worried about slumping prices. [C10.] 


DEAL FOR CANADIAN OIL SANDS -- ConocoPhillips said it would combine ownership of two of its refineries in Texas with Canadian oil sands properties controlled by the oil and gas producer EnCana. [C10.]

RYANAIR MAKES HOSTILE BID -- Ryanair, the low-fare airline based in Ireland, started a hostile bid for a rival, Aer Lingus, in a move that could bring the budget carrier American cities served by Aer Lingus. Ryanair's chief, Michael O'Leary, left, has been contemptuous of Aer Lingus's management. [C7.]

HEDGE FUND AS CAMPAIGN CHEST -- Two years ago, Andrew M. Cuomo, a candidate for attorney general of New York, put $750,000 -- more than half of his campaign treasury -- into a hedge fund. The investment turned out to be all upside, with one-year returns of nearly 20 percent. [A1.]

A CAT FOR PEOPLE WITH ALLERGIES -- Allerca, a California biotech company says it is ready to deliver the Holy Grail of the $35 billion pet industry: a hypoallergenic cat. The first kittens will be delivered early next year, at a cost of $4,000 each. [A14.]

A LAND DEAL TOO GOOD TO BE TRUE -- Federal investigators are trying to sort out the suspicious purchase and resale of 184 homes in a down-and-out neighborhood in Indianapolis. The company that bought the mortgages says it was the victim of a fraud. [C1.]

PUBLISHER IS FORCED OUT -- Jeffrey M. Johnson, the publisher of The Los Angeles Times, was forced out after refusing to make job cuts demanded by his corporate bosses at the Tribune Company. Dean Baquet, the paper's editor, who had also refused to make the job cuts, kept his job. [C1.]

FORD LOSING INTEREST IN ALLIANCE -- Carlos Ghosn, who heads Nissan of Japan and Renault of France, has made it clear that he wants a North American alliance. But in the aftermath of failed talks with G.M., his time may be past. [C3.]

AVOIDING THE CROWDED FLIGHTS -- If you want an empty seat beside you on your next flight, just schedule a trip to someplace like Kingman, Ariz.; Brookings, S.D.; or Pueblo, Colo. [A1.]

FORMER CHAIRWOMAN IN COURT -- Patricia C. Dunn, the former chairwoman of Hewlett-Packard, appeared in court in San Jose, Calif., after being charged in connection with a corporate spying operation. She was booked on four felony charges and agreed to return to court for an arraignment hearing. [C3.]

NEW BOOK ON H.P. -- Carleton S. Fiorina, the chairwoman of Hewlett Packard before she was fired in 2005, deserves plenty of credit for H.P.'s recent recovery. Or so she says, in her new book, ''Tough Choices.'' [C3.]

NO ACTION AGAINST PEQUOT -- The staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission will not recommend an enforcement action against Pequot Capital Management or its employees relating to an insider trading investigation, according to a letter from the fund to its clients. [C1.]

RETAIL SALES UP -- Sales at retailers rose more in September than analysts estimated because of falling gas prices, brightening prospects for the holiday season. But Wal-Mart trailed rivals like Federated, J. C. Penney, Gap and Target. [C2.]

STOCKS GAIN AGAIN -- Stocks rose for a third day, extending the Dow Jones industrial average's record-breaking rally, helped by a rebound in energy and commodity companies. [C8.]

EUROPEAN BANK LIFTS RATES -- The European Central Bank raised its benchmark interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point, to 3.25 percent, citing a risk of higher inflation. It was the fifth increase since last December. [C4.]

COMPARING BLINDNESS DRUGS -- The National Institutes of Health said that it would sponsor a clinical trial comparing two Genentech drugs that have sharply different costs as a treatment for the leading cause of blindness in the elderly. [C3.]

ONLINE

SMALL BUSINESS -- The rapid expansion of Vince, a sportswear line, has caught no one by surprise, except perhaps its partners, all veterans of mainstream apparel manufacturing companies. A special report is at nytimes.com/business.

BUSINESS TRAVEL -- The new reality of business travel includes more unexpected destinations. A special report is at nytimes.com/business.

NETWORKING -- A special report exploring the proliferation of VoIP technology and other new wireless innovations is at nytimes.com/technology.

Business Briefing
 Articles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.

Wal-Mart said that it would expand a program offering generic drugs for $4 a prescription throughout Florida and that it might bring the program to other states before the end of the year. (REUTERS)

Some 15,000 members of the United Steelworkers union went on strike on Thursday at 16 plants owned by the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company. (REUTERS)

Starbucks said that it had set a new long-term goal to have 40,000 coffee stores worldwide, 10,000 more than its previous target and more than triple the current number. Starbucks also announced a deal to feature the music it sells in its stores on the Apple Computer iTunes Store.
 The company said it expected to have more than 14,000 stores worldwide by the fall of 2007. There are currently about 12,000 Starbucks stores around the world. (AP)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph shows Wal-Mart share for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SANDS (91%); CARTELS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (73%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (72%); CATS (70%); ALLERGIES (70%); AIR FARES (69%); LAYOFFS (69%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (67%); HEDGE FUNDS (67%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (51%); ESPIONAGE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (91%); RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (84%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (81%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); AER LINGUS GROUP PLC (56%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (91%); RDSA (AMS) (91%); RDS.B (NYSE) (91%); RDS.A (NYSE) (91%); RYAAY (NASDAQ) (84%); RYA (LSE) (84%); COP (NYSE) (84%); XOM (NYSE) (58%); AERL (LSE) (56%); HPQ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (91%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (81%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: CARLOS GHOSN (52%); ANDREW CUOMO (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (78%); PUEBLO, CO, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CANADA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2006



128 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; A Mix of Oil and Environmentalism; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1565 words

HEADLINE: Russia's Government Plays the Regulation Card in Its Energy Deals 

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: YUZHNO-SAKHALINSK, Russia 

 BODY:
For more than a decade, Dmitri V. Lisitsyn waged a lonely, losing battle to protect the local salmon and gray whales from the world's large oil companies, which are turning bucolic Sakhalin Island into an industrial hub for energy in Asia.
 Now, Mr. Lisitsyn suddenly has the full support of an unlikely environmental champion: the Russian government.
The authorities, who had never shown any interest in Mr. Lisitsyn's environmental causes in the past, have now taken them up as a means to stall giant projects by the oil companies Royal Dutch Shell and Exxon Mobil here on Sakhalin, a placid island near Siberia that is unfathomably rich with oil and gas. But the unusual tie-up is just the latest move in an intensifying face-off between the big oil companies and the Kremlin, which wants to recover -- but pay very little -- for energy assets it sold to foreigners when oil prices were low.
 Unlike Hugo Chavez of Venezuela or Evo Morales of Bolivia, who recently sent in his army to seize natural gas fields, the Kremlin is using more sophisticated methods -- though the results are no less insidious from the oil companies' point of view. 
 Just now, Exxon Mobil is clashing with the Kremlin over whether it can send out its first tanker exports of crude oil from the $17 billion Sakhalin 1 project. Exports were supposed to start the first week of October, but at a conference on Sept. 28, Russian officials warned that shipments would be halted for health and safety checks. Exxon Mobil insisted the tanker would set off as planned.
 The tanker is to take oil from one of the world's newest energy provinces to Asia; some of the oil will also make its way to California, helping to diversify supply away from the Middle East, a goal of the Bush administration's energy policy. 
 [By yesterday, the tanker, Viktor Titov, was still moored to the dock at the De-Kastri terminal on the Tatar Strait in the Russian Far East. Late yesterday evening, Exxon Mobil would say only that the terminal was being tested and needed additional Russian government permits, and would not comment on when the tanker would depart.]
 An even bigger target lately is Shell and its $20 billion project, Sakhalin 2, which represents the largest foreign investment in Russia and is the world's largest combined oil and natural gas development. Authorities have also singled out BP fields in Siberia and a project of the French oil company Total in northern Russia.
 Russia is now using environmental regulation, oil analysts say, to weaken the negotiating positions of the country's largest foreign investors, in the same way it used the tax code to weaken Yukos, once Russia's largest private oil company. Yukos went bankrupt when the government selectively enforced certain tax rules. 
 Indeed, since Rosneft, a state-run company, took over Yukos's oil production, the Kremlin has raised its control over the country's energy assets, with wide implications for the world oil supply. This summer Russia surpassed Saudi Arabia as the world's largest oil producer. 
 ''The official rhetoric is getting steadily more shrill and does not bode well for the future of foreign oil companies in Russia,'' the director of Goldman Sachs's Moscow office, Rory MacFarquhar, wrote in a note to investors recently. ''We continue to believe that the aim of this campaign is to force the foreign companies to accept Russian state companies as equal or even majority partners in their projects, possibly for no compensation.'' 
 Shell's project is now in limbo because regulators revoked a permit for Sakhalin 2, a move that threatened to idle 17,000 workers. That revocation was suspended for a second environmental review, scheduled to be completed on Oct. 25, when a new showdown is expected. 
 Regulators this fall are pressuring all five large Western oil investments in Russia in which the government does not have a controlling stake: Sakhalin 2; Sakhalin 1; BP's venture, TNK-BP; Total's Kharyaga field; and the Caspian Pipeline Consortium, which exports Central Asian oil across Russian territory. 
 Even Nezavisimaya Gazeta in Moscow noted this summer in an article it was ''open season'' on foreign energy investment. 
 [On Wednesday, Anthony Brenton, Britain's ambassador to Russia, called the actions ''a serious blow to Russia's reputation as a business partner and supplier of energy resources.''] 
 In a choreographed show of official outrage over the environment unusual for Russia's government, Oleg L. Mitvol, deputy director of the environmental watchdog agency Rosprirodnadzor, recently led journalists, diplomats and conservationists in a tour of Shell's project. 
 On the tour, Mr. Mitvol pointed angrily at a muddy hillside on Shell's pipeline route. Pointing out upturned trees, he said he suspected pollution was behind the deaths of two fish he found belly-up in a stream, and he described how divers had shown him what he called a ''mutant,'' a starfish with three arms instead of the usual five. At one point, as an aide casually flicked a cigarette butt into the Pacific Ocean, Mr. Mitvol stood on a fishing pier and denounced Shell's intrusion in Aniva Bay. 
 He said Shell's operating company, Sakhalin Energy, was allowing erosion into salmon streams. He also accused the company of illegally dumping dredge material into a bay and cutting down trees in a park. 
 ''We signed a deal with the company to drill for oil and gas,'' Mr. Mitvol said. ''Cutting trees in a nature preserve is something else, excuse me.''
 Mr. Mitvol, interviewed in a muddy field beside a pipeline, said Shell could face as much as $50 billion in fines and fees if it wanted to remain in Russia. He later said the figure was a rough estimate. He also threatened to ''open a criminal case for every tree they cut down. ''
 Greenpeace, the International Fund for Animal Welfare, and Sakhalin Environment Watch -- Mr. Lisitsyn's group -- support Mr. Mitvol's allegations, which they say echo complaints they have raised for years with little response from the government, until now. 
 Sakhalin Energy denied the claims made by Mr. Mitvol. ''Although the project has faced significant environmental challenges, the company firmly believes that these have been fully addressed,'' the company said in a statement. Analysts say the regulatory complaints are a thinly veiled effort to renegotiate billions of dollars in contracts dating from the 1990's. ''You don't fight city hall, and you certainly don't fight the Kremlin,'' Christopher Weafer, chief analyst at Alfa Bank, said. 
 It was a decade ago that Russia first negotiated the production-sharing agreements that govern the oil projects on Sakhalin with Shell and Exxon. At that time, oil prices were hovering around $15 a barrel. Under those agreements, the government does not tax the companies; instead, the government gets a share of the oil, but only after the operators recoup their initial investments. 
 During the past year, Shell doubled its cost estimate to $20 billion and Exxon Mobil raised its estimate by 30 percent, to $17 billion, citing higher prices for steel and an appreciation of the ruble. In both cases, the new cost estimates push back by years the government's profits. Not surprisingly, the government has rejected these estimates -- hence the conflict.
 [''It was clear Russia would never agree to this,'' President Vladimir V. Putin's chief economic adviser, Arkady Dvorkovich, said Wednesday concerning the new estimate for Sakhalin 2.]
 Meanwhile, the Russian company Gazprom is negotiating to buy 25 percent of Shell's project, but those talks have not gone well. Shell announced the cost increase only in July 2005, just a week after signing a preliminary asset swap agreement with Gazprom. 
 Gazprom, which is seeking a monopoly on natural gas exports from Russia to Asia, wanted a veto on the board, with a voice in decisions about markets, pricing and strategy. Under a previous charter for Shell's operating company, the 25 percent stake, plus one share, would have given Gazprom a say in these decisions. 
 But just days before the deal was signed in July, Shell and its Japanese partners, Mitsubishi and Mitsui, changed the charter, raising the percentage of stock required for a veto, according to a lawyer who has seen the documents. Gazprom was not informed of the change before the signing, angering the powerful company. 
 ''That just wound them up,'' said the lawyer, who did not want to be identified because he was not authorized to discuss the deal publicly. 
 [Top executives from Shell, Mitsui and Mitsubishi were scheduled to meet in London this week to decide on a response, Reuters reported Tuesday.] 
 Separately, regulators are investigating the $17 billion Exxon Mobil project on Sakhalin -- with a visit by Mr. Mitvol to the De-Kastri terminal scheduled for Monday -- and threatened to revoke the license for an $18 billion gas field in Siberia being developed by BP's Russian joint venture, TNK-BP, citing environmental shortfalls. 
 ''The environmental weapon, in this sense, allows the Russian authorities to put pressure on the operators and at the same time to defend a noble cause,'' said Vitaly V. Yermakov, research director for Russian and Caspian energy at Cambridge Energy Research Associates. ''In chess, every good move should be both offensive and defensive. Russians are very good chess players.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ships at Korsakov, a port at the southern tip of Sakhalin Island in Russia, above. Trees have been cut along the route of pipelines serving the Sakhalin 2 oil and natural gas project, below. The government has raised environmental concerns about the project. (Photographs by Joseph Sywenkyj for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Misha Vakhitov walking cows in a pasture through which the pipeline is being built for Sakhalin 2, a $20 billion Royal Dutch Shell project. (Photo by Joseph Sywenkyj for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Map of Russia highlighting Sakhalin Island: The Sakhalin 2 pipeline is to send offshore production to the mainland. (pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (93%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (88%); MARINE MAMMALS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (74%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); TAX LAW (62%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (57%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Environment; International Trade and World Market; Production; Foreign Investments; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Tankers; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (85%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (84%); OAO NK YUKOS (80%); OAO ROSNEFT OIL CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Royal Dutch/shell Group; Exxon Mobil; Bp Plc; Total Sa; Rosneft; Yukos (Russian Co)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (85%); RDSA (LSE) (84%); RDSA (AMS) (84%); RDS.B (NYSE) (84%); RDS.A (NYSE) (84%); ROSN (RTS) (50%); ROSN (LSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (85%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (85%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (50%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (57%) Dmitri V Lisitsyn; George W (Pres) Bush; Andrew E Kramer

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); ASIA (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) Russia; Sakhalin Island; California; Middle East; Siberia

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2006



129 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: Conoco and EnCana Plan Oil Sands Venture

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA, Oct. 5 

 BODY:
ConocoPhillips said Thursday that it would combine ownership of two of its refineries in Texas with Canadian oil sands properties controlled by the oil and gas producer EnCana. The two partners also agreed to invest more than $10 billion over the next decade to expand the joint venture's production. 
 The deal ends EnCana's long search for a partner to process the heavy tar, or bitumen, it extracts from surrounding rock and sand by injecting high-pressure steam into wells. But the decision to send more of that material to the United States for processing may prove unpopular in the company's home province, Alberta.
The venture will be divided into two new companies, each owned equally by Conoco and EnCana. One, to be based in Calgary, where EnCana has its headquarters, will take control of two EnCana oil sands projects in northeastern Alberta. The other will own ConocoPhillips refineries in Roxana, Ill., and Borger, Tex., and will be based in Houston, ConocoPhillips's headquarters city.
 The two partners said they had not determined how the heavy oil would be sent south to the refineries, although they acknowledged that additional pipeline capacity would have to be created.
 High oil prices over the last year or two have increased interest in oil sands projects, which require more capital and involve higher operating costs than conventional oil wells. In a conference call with analysts and reporters, EnCana's chief financial officer, Brian C. Ferguson, said the new venture had been structured on the assumption that oil prices would average $50 a barrel, about $10 below current prices. He added that the project would be viable even if oil fell to $40 a barrel.
 Not all analysts were convinced of that. ''I don't believe if the oil prices goes below $45 a barrel, this will be as economically attractive as it looks today,'' Fadel Gheit of Oppenheimer & Company told Reuters.
 While EnCana did not rule out developing processing facilities in Alberta, it and many other companies are unwilling to do that today. The development of the oil sands has already led to a labor and materials shortage and greatly increased construction costs in the province.
 But because refineries offer long-term employment, there has been a growing political call for their development along with oil sands mines in Alberta.
 Last week Jim Dinning, a provincial legislator who is considered most likely to succeed Alberta's departing premier, Ralph Klein, said in a speech that he was concerned about heavy oil from the tar sands being shipped out for processing in the United States.
 ''I believe if you mine it here, you upgrade it here,'' Mr. Dinning said.
 Mr. Klein, a political fixture on the right in Alberta, announced his resignation on Sept. 20. Mr. Dinning is seeking the leadership of the province's Conservative Party, which over the years has rarely interfered with business and is closely tied to the oil and gas industry.
 EnCana's chief executive, Randall K. Eresman, said the political debate was not likely to have any effect on the joint venture, which is subject to regulatory approval in Canada and the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SANDS (95%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); JOINT VENTURES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (66%); POLITICAL PARTIES (65%); CONFERENCE CALLS (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%); LABOR SHORTAGES (60%); RESIGNATIONS (60%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Refineries; Production; Bitumen; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (97%); ENCANA CORP (92%); OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (64%)

ORGANIZATION: Conocophillips; Encana Corp

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (97%); ECA (TSX) (92%); ECA (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (97%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (97%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (97%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (97%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (97%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (97%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (97%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (97%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (97%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (64%)

PERSON: Ian Austen

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) ALBERTA, CANADA (95%); TEXAS, USA (93%) CANADA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%) Texas; Canada

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2006



130 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: A Bright Month for Retailers Raises Holiday Hopes

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Sales at retailers rose more in September than analysts estimated because of lower gas prices, brightening prospects for the holiday season.
 The Goldman Sachs retail composite index rose 3.4 percent, led by a 9.1 percent increase in department stores and a 6 percent gain in specialty apparel. Discount stores rose 2.2 percent. 
Federated Department Stores posted a 6.2 percent increase in sales at stores open more than a year.
 The J. C. Penney Company and Gap also exceeded estimates. 
 Wal-Mart Stores, the world's biggest retailer, trailed rivals with a 1.3 percent gain, while sales at the Target Corporation rose 6.7 percent.
 Higher back-to-school sales may signal increased buying during the holidays, the biggest selling period for most retailers and the only time many make a profit. 
 Shoppers have more money to spend after a 13 percent decline in the price of gasoline. Average temperatures that were 4 degrees lower than last year spurred buying of fleece and sweaters.
 ''All lights are green in terms of holiday selling,'' said Rick Rubin, an analyst at the Mercantile Bankshares Corporation in Baltimore. The lower gasoline price ''is the biggest catalyst. It's certainly a boost to the near-term outlook for retailers.''
 Demand for clothes, shoes, computers and books fueled sales in August and September, countering predictions that consumer spending was waning as the housing market cooled and interest rates rose.
 Sales in August and September are often a ''strong leading indicator'' of holiday sales, said Paul Lejuez, an analyst at Credit Suisse in New York.
 ''People want to believe the consumers were dying,'' said Patricia L. Edwards, a money manager at Wentworth, Hauser & Violich in Seattle. ''The consumer doesn't even have a cold. I'm a lot more confident that we'll have a very decent holiday season.'' 
 About 70 percent of retailers exceeded analysts' estimates, compared with an average 56 percent in recent years, according to Retail Metrics of Swampscott, Mass., which tracks results from 56 retailers.
 The decline in gasoline prices put an extra $70 million in the pockets of consumers in September, compared with a year earlier, said Archstone Consulting in Stamford, Conn.
 Nordstrom said sales surged 13 percent in September, more than double analysts' estimates.
 Saks said sales rose 10 percent in September.
 Gap said sales dropped 3 percent, less than analysts' estimate of a decline of 3.5 percent, after it introduced skinny black pants in a marketing campaign featuring Audrey Hepburn.
 Retailers specializing in the teenage market had the biggest sales gain among different retailer groups, according to Retail Metrics. 
 American Eagle Outfitters and the Abercrombie & Fitch Company both raised their profit forecasts after sales surpassed analysts' estimates.
 Discounters and wholesale club sales trailed other retailers, hurt by Wal-Mart and the Costco Wholesale Corporation. 
 Costco, the warehouse club retailer, said sales increased 4 percent, missing estimates of a 5.1 percent gain.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Retail Sales in September''Graph shows GOLDMAN SACHS RETAIL COMPOSITE INDEXYear-to-year changes based on monthly sales at stores open at least a year.SALESResults are for the four weeks ended Sept. 30, except as noted, compared with the period a year earlier.(Source by Goldman Sachs & Company, based on company reports.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (95%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); TEENS MARKET (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); HOUSING STARTS (70%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Retail Stores and Trade; Sales; Goldman Sachs Retail Composite Index; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: TARGET CORP (91%); J C PENNEY CO INC (91%); MACY'S INC (90%); ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (84%); WAL-MART STORES INC (74%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (68%); AMERICAN EAGLE OUTFITTERS INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (54%); WENTWORTH HAUSER & VIOLICH (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Federated Department Stores Inc; Penney, J C, Co; Wal-Mart Stores Inc; Gap Inc; Target Corp; Nordstrom Inc

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (91%); JCP (NYSE) (91%); M (NYSE) (90%); ANF (NYSE) (84%); AFT (FRA) (84%); WMT (NYSE) (74%); PNC (NYSE) (68%); AEO (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (54%); CS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (91%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (91%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (91%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (91%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (91%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (91%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (74%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (74%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (53%); CONNECTICUT, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2006



131 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1613 words

HEADLINE: Suit Says Neighborhood's Boom Was Built on Mortgage Fraud 

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ and JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
Even by the frothy standards of the housing boom, it was a great deal. 
 On May 18, 2005, a small Indiana company bought 184 duplex homes in a down-and-out neighborhood in northeast Indianapolis for an average price of $50,000 each.
Less than a month later, the company, Land Economics, began selling the properties, which were built mostly in the 1940's, for $120,000 apiece to church secretaries, truckers, retirees and factory workers -- sometimes as many as three a day to a single individual -- all of them 577 miles away in Martinsville, Va. As recently as September 2004, homes in this neighborhood sold in a range of $20,000 to $65,000. 
 Amid the boom, those details hardly seemed to matter.
 A week after the details of those suspicious transactions emerged -- and the accusations by lenders and borrowers that they had been defrauded -- federal investigators are still trying to sort out the scope of what some are describing as one of the largest cases of mortgage fraud in recent years. Countrywide Financial, which bought the Indianapolis loans soon after they were written, has filed a lawsuit seeking damages from Land Economics, its principals and others involved in the deals. . 
 The Indianapolis situation may prove to be the most vivid example yet of how the boom in housing has provided fertile ground for mortgage fraud, industry experts and regulators say. Rising home prices served as cover for quick-flip plans and an easy hook to recruit investors.
 And the boom created incentives for the mortgage industry not to look too closely. As the appetite for home loans soared on Main Street and Wall Street, the industry came to increasingly rely on networks of independent mortgage brokers, appraisers and other officials to keep the lending assembly line well supplied. All had incentives to minimize hold-ups.
 ''If the deal doesn't go through, nobody gets paid,'' said Bill Matthews, a senior vice president at the Conference of State Bank Supervisors.
 Still, the apparent inability of lenders to spot suspicious transactions is puzzling to some. Information about the value of the homes and the borrowers' modest financial positions could have been easily discovered had someone sought the information.
 William A. Birkle, a county assessor in Indianapolis, caught wind of the home sales in the northeast neighborhood, Windsor Village, when a fraud analyst at Wells Fargo Home Mortgage called last year to ask him about them. When Mr. Birkle started looking into the transactions he was flabbergasted at the sales prices.
 ''It's just the worst neighborhood in my township," he said. "At one point in time, the police barricaded the neighborhood with concrete so there was only one way in and one way out so they could control the drug trade.''
 The mortgage industry has access to extensive property databases and sophisticated computer models that can flag potentially fraudulent loans.
 Industry experts say databases can sometimes provide contradictory information. But they believe that the larger problem is that companies too often rely on the representations of mortgage brokers or correspondent bankers without seeking independent verification. 
 ''It's symptomatic of a faceless origination process,'' said Arthur J. Prieston, chairman of the Prieston Group, a consulting and insurance firm that specializes in mortgage fraud. ''As the industry has matured, we don't have the situation where you walk into the bank and the banker knows you and your family and where you work.''
 Countrywide, the nation's biggest mortgage lender, disputes that it did not do enough to detect any problems earlier, noting that the bank that originated the loans, People's Choice, was contractually obligated to vet and check the loans.
 ''Countrywide is a victim in this case,'' the company said. ''We have a zero-tolerance policy against fraud, and dedicate considerable resources toward identifying and investigating possible incidents through our systems, technology and fraud investigation unit.''
 The system employed by Countrywide and other lenders has undoubtedly delivered a number of benefits by creating new kinds of mortgages, expanding access to credit for minorities and providing a boost to the national economy.
 But the benefits have been accompanied by a growing amount of fraud, forcing state and federal regulators to scramble to get ahead of it. The Federal Bureau of Investigation estimates that mortgage fraud totaled $1 billion in 2005, up from $429 million in 2004 but still a tiny fraction of the $3 trillion mortgage business.
 In April, the New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, announced the indictment of eight people accused of involvement in mortgage fraud that he said cost banks as much as $200 million during the five years the ring operated, primarily in Brooklyn and Queens and in Suffolk County on Long Island. In Atlanta, Chalana McFarland was sentenced last year to 30 years for a flipping operation that netted $20 million from 1999 to 2002.
 The most profitable schemes are run by well-coordinated groups and include mortgage brokers, appraisers, real estate brokers and title agents. They require several things: unwitting borrowers, inflated property appraisals and lax oversight.
 The person accused in the Countrywide lawsuit of being the mastermind behind the Indiana real estate scheme is Robert Penn, who, with his wife, Tamara Penn, operated a number of real estate holding companies, including Land Economics.
 Though estimates vary, people with knowledge of the accusations say the scheme involved at least $40 million in loans, and possibly twice that amount. At least one other mortgage company may have suffered losses in the suspected fraud, which also involved more expensive homes in suburban Indianapolis.
 Investors were lured in by a pair of Martinsville residents: Mr. Penn's mother, Beulah Penn, and his sister Sharon Penn. The two encouraged people to participate in what they called a real estate investment club, rushing them through the paperwork and telling them that they were signing loan applications. 
 The deals have left the borrowers with large debts and potential indelible marks on their credit histories.
 Their applications were forwarded to another couple, Robert and Amy Pollard, who worked as loan officers and processors for People's Choice, a unit of People's Trust Mortgage in Kentucky, the lawsuit says.
 As a ''correspondent'' banker, People's Choice made loans using standards and practices prescribed by Countrywide in hopes of selling them to the larger company. At the height of the housing boom, correspondent institutions generated up to 40 percent of Countrywide's loans; they now account for about 35 percent.
 In the lawsuit, Countrywide asserts that the Pollards did not follow its underwriting practices. Borrowers were said to have significant bank account balances when in fact, those assets belonged to a company controlled by an associate of Mr. Penn, Countrywide's lawsuit says.
 Mr. Penn also relied on appraisers to provide inflated property assessments and title agents to sanction and execute fund transfers, according to the lawsuit.
 The Countrywide suit asserts that the company was defrauded of the difference between the true value of the homes and the inflated prices at which the loans were taken out.
 In a court filing in mid-September, the Pollards, who declined to comment, denied Countrywide's accusations. Calls to Mr. Penn and his lawyer were not returned. 
 Douglas Grothjan, who worked at another People's Choice office until 2003, said the company did not monitor or audit branch operations. The company's chief executive, Jerry Connor, could not be reached for comment.
 ''It should have been mandatory that you take 10 percent of the loans and completely reverify them, order a credit report from a different bureau, an appraisal from a different company, send documentation to the people again,'' Mr. Grothjan said. ''Good brokers do that. Jerry just churned out loans and people.''
 Most of the homes in Windsor Village were built for sailors and soldiers returning from World War II. The neighborhood is anchored by a former naval air installation that is now home to Raytheon, the military contractor. The neighborhood has a median household income of $27,000, and residents there owned only about 40 percent of its homes, according to the 2000 census.
 Mr. Birkle, the assessor for the area, said he had given records for suspicious sales to the Marion County prosecutor's office, which referred questions to the United States attorney's office in Indianapolis. Officials with a federal mortgage fraud task force declined to comment.
 As Mr. Birkle remembers it, the local prosecutor felt ''we don't have a victim here.''
 ''We didn't have these people from out of town saying, 'We were defrauded'; we didn't have the mortgage company saying, 'We were defrauded.' ''
 Another mortgage company, Argent, has said that it, too, bought loans in which Mr. Penn and his associates were involved. But it would not say how many it had acquired or when it had become aware of problems with the loans. ''We are aggressively pursuing criminal and civil actions,'' said Chris Orlando, an Argent spokesman.
 Mr. Matthews of the state bank supervisors's group said regulators and law enforcement officials deserve some blame for not tightening licensing requirements and pursuing fraud more aggressively. This week, his group and other state regulators said they would establish national standards for registering mortgage brokers, bankers and others.
 ''Crimes by the pen get a whole lot lighter treatment than crimes with a gun,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A duplex at 2206-2208 Norden Court in Indianapolis is one of 184 at the center of a dispute. (Photo by Tom Strattman for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 A deserted duplex at 2414-2416 Kitley Avenue in Indianapolis, one of the homes bought for $50,000 and quickly sold for much more. (Photo by Tom Strattman for The New York Times)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE FRAUD (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); LITIGATION (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); DAMAGES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (68%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (67%); TAX ASSESSORS (63%); EXECUTIVES (61%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Mortgages; Suits and Litigation; Frauds and Swindling; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Housing; Housing

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%) Land Economics; Countrywide Financial; Federal Bureau of Investigation

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%)

PERSON: Robert Penn; Tamara Penn; Vikas Bajaj; Julie Creswell

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (91%) INDIANA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Indianapolis (Ind)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2006



132 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: Europeans Raise Rates a Quarter-Point and Hint at Another Increase Ahead 

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY

DATELINE: PARIS, Oct. 5 

 BODY:
The European Central Bank raised its benchmark interest rate Thursday by a quarter-point, to 3.25 percent, citing a risk of higher inflation. It was the fifth such move since the bank began increasing borrowing costs last December. 
 At the same time, its president, Jean-Claude Trichet, hinted that the bank would raise rates by the same amount at its meeting this December. But he would not speculate how it might react to the economic slowdown in the United States and a scheduled increase in the German value-added tax.
Though inflation in the euro zone moderated somewhat in September as oil prices dropped to around $60 a barrel from summer highs over $70, Mr. Trichet emphasized that the bank still expected inflation to be slightly above its target of 2 percent in coming months. 
 After a meeting here of the bank's rate-setting body, Mr. Trichet said, ''The recent fall in oil prices, if it were to prove lasting, has the potential to lead to somewhat stronger demand and output growth.'' 
 Yet he cautioned against drawing quick conclusions from oil prices, which have provided the bank's main rationale for increasing borrowing costs. Energy costs have largely risen in the last year or so against a backdrop of soaring demand from China, India and other fast-growing economies, and Mr. Trichet said that would continue. 
 ''Over all, inflation rates are likely to increase again at the end of the year and in early 2007,'' he said. ''As a consequence, we expect a considerable degree of short-term volatility'' in yearly inflation rates. 
 The bank promised to ''monitor very closely'' inflation developments in the 12-nation euro zone, phrasing it has used in the past to suggest that rates would rise again in two months.
 Indeed, Mr. Trichet said that analysts were on target with their broadly shared prediction that the bank would increase rates in December, suggesting that a yearlong campaign was not over to bring borrowing costs up to a ''normal level'' -- one that neither hindered nor spurred economic growth. 
 But he would not offer hints as to what the bank might do in 2007, when the euro zone economies face uncertainties, including the increase in Germany's value-added tax, a kind of sales tax at each stage of production and distribution, and the prospect of a slower American economy. 
 At times, analysts said, Mr. Trichet seemed to be sketching a chain of events that would let the European Central Bank keep raising borrowing costs in 2007. ''If things move along as the E.C.B. hopes,'' said Erik Nielsen, chief Europe economist at Goldman Sachs in London, ''we could be looking at more after December.'' 
 Mr. Trichet cited the risks to a global economy that has snapped up European exports in the last few years, yet added, ''Longer term, we expect that risks to growth remain on the downside.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EURO (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); TRENDS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); VALUE ADDED TAX (75%); SALES TAX (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); GLOBALIZATION (65%) Credit; Economic Conditions and Trends; Interest Rates; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union; European Central Bank

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (90%) Jean-Claude Trichet; Carter Dougherty

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (64%) EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); INDIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2006



133 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: Another Dow High as a Rally Passes Day 3

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks rose for a third day, extending the Dow Jones industrial average's record-breaking rally, helped by a rebound in energy and commodity companies.
 The Dow average advanced 16.08 points, or 0.1 percent, to 11,866.69, led by Caterpillar shares. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 3 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,353.22. A gain in Starbucks shares helped support the Nasdaq, which increased 15.39, or 0.7 percent, to 2,306.34. 
Caterpillar, the maker of earthmoving equipment, rose $2.70, or 4.1 percent, to $68.24 for the top gain in the Dow. The company was among 27 stocks highlighted by Merrill Lynch as being resilient in the face of a global economic slowdown.
 Shares of Starbucks climbed $2.73, or 7.6 percent, to $38.69 after the company said that comparable-store sales rose 6 percent in September because of increased demand for lattes and sandwiches.
 Shares of steel makers rose after Tata Steel of India said it was reviewing global opportunities for takeovers. Tata responded to reports that it might bid for the Corus Group, based in London. Shares of Corus rose 16 percent in London. United States Steel jumped $4.68, or 8.4 percent, to $60.63 for the top gain in the S.& P. 500. Nucor added $3.23, to $51.98, Steel Dynamics climbed $4.22 to $54.16 and Reliance Steel and Aluminum rose $1.73 to $32.89.
 Phelps Dodge, the copper mining company, jumped $4.11, to $82.76. Morgan Stanley resumed coverage of the stock with an overweight rating, citing a bullish outlook for copper prices. 
 Crude oil for November delivery rose 1 percent to $60.03 a barrel in New York on speculation that the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries would cut production targets this month. The rise in oil helped energy stocks. Exxon Mobil gained 71 cents, to $67.32.
 Dillard's, the department store chain, fell $2.48, or 7.4 percent, to $31.15 for the worst performance in the S.& P. 500. The company said comparable-store sales were unchanged in the five weeks that ended Sept. 30.
 Over all, United States retailers' comparable-store sales rose 3.8 percent in September, according to the International Council of Shopping Centers, whose number includes results from 57 chains.
 Wal-Mart Stores shares fell $1.14, or 2.3 percent, to $48.41, and were the biggest drag on the Dow. The company said October sales might rise 2 percent to 4 percent after a 1.3 percent gain last month.
 Treasury prices fell after Charles I. Plosser, president of the Philadelphia Federal Reserve, said that keeping interest rates at current levels or even pushing them higher might help the economy.
 The price of the benchmark 10-year note fell 11/32, to 102 4/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.60 percent, from 4.56 percent on Wednesday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); BONDS (90%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); TREASURY SECURITIES (83%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); TAKEOVERS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); COPPER MARKETS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ALUMINUM MARKETS (73%); DEPARTMENT STORES (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); COPPER INDUSTRY (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (68%); MINES & MINING (64%); COPPER MINING (64%); EXPORT TRADE (62%); CENTRAL BANKS (61%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (61%); INTEREST RATES (60%); BOND MARKETS (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds; United States Economy; Interest Rates; Credit

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); TATA STEEL EUROPE (69%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); TATA STEEL LTD (55%); UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (55%); RELIANCE STEEL & ALUMINUM CO (54%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%); WAL-MART STORES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (58%); TTST (LSE) (55%); TATASTEEL (NSE) (55%); X (NYSE) (55%); RS (NYSE) (54%); MS (NYSE) (54%); WMT (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (69%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (69%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (69%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS331210 IRON & STEEL PIPE & TUBE MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED STEEL (55%); NAICS423510 METAL SERVICE CENTERS & OTHER METAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (54%); SIC5051 METALS SERVICE CENTERS & OFFICES (54%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (51%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (51%)

PERSON: Charles I Plosser

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2006



134 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THE 2006 CAMPAIGN; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: Tony Snow's Moonlighting Job: Unwitting Pitchman on Radio

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 5 

 BODY:
On any given day, radio listeners can hear Tony Snow, the White House press secretary, selling the president's policies on Iraq, terrorism and the economy.
 But if they live in Iowa, they have also been able to hear him selling the home products of Nu-Vu Windows and Siding, in an advertisement he recorded back when he was a Fox News radio host who regularly plugged his local and national sponsors. 
Unbeknown to Mr. Snow, who moved to the White House last spring, the spot, which he recorded about three years ago, was running recently on radio station WHO-AM in Des Moines.
 Mr. Snow found out about it Monday when O. Kay Henderson, the news director of another outlet, Radio Iowa, called the White House to make sure she was not hearing things before writing about it on her blog.
 ''Just imagine, you're listening to the radio, Tony Snow has been speaking to you as the spokesman for the leader of the free world, and then a commercial comes on with him trying to sell you a window,'' Ms. Henderson said Thursday. ''He introduced himself as Tony Snow, talked about the travails of remodeling projects, boasted about the 30-year history of this business and delivered the 800 number of the business, twice.''
 With upbeat music playing in the background, Mr. Snow says of the company, ''You can be assured they'll do a high-quality job and they'll make the process fun, too.''
 Mr. Snow said in an interview Thursday that he had asked White House lawyers to tell Nu-Vu, situated in the town of Grimes, outside Des Moines, to stop running the spot. And, he said, it appears that the commercial should not have been on WHO in the first place, since it was recorded for broadcast on KWKY, a Christian talk radio station, to run along with his show. 
 ''It was unknown and unauthorized, and as soon as we found out about it a White House counsel called up and said, 'You really can't do this,' '' Mr. Snow said. ''It's like, you don't have the White House press secretary flacking siding.''
 At WHO, which can reach as many as 38 states at night and which once employed Ronald Reagan, the general manager, Joel McCrea, said the spot had run over a two-week period. Mr. McCrea said that there were no immediate plans to run it again but that Nu-Vu had told him it had the rights to the commercial and that he had no reason to doubt the company.
 Nu-Vu did not respond to several requests for comment. 
 Mr. Snow said he had not yet had a chance to apprise President Bush of the situation, adding, ''He's been kind of busy the last few days.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); RADIO FORMATS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); TERRORISM (73%); POLITICS (73%) Radio; United States Politics and Government; News and News Media; Advertising and Marketing

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (72%)

ORGANIZATION: Fox News Channel; Nu-Vu Windows and Siding (Co)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (72%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (72%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Tony Snow

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (90%) IOWA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2006



135 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Reviews Response Options for North Korean Nuclear Test

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 5 

 BODY:
The Bush administration is developing an extensive list of possible new sanctions against North Korea in the event that it carries through with its threat to conduct a nuclear test, senior officials said Thursday. 
 The measures under consideration include renewing efforts that have been unsuccessful in the past -- persuading South Korea and China to cut off energy supplies and trade -- and potentially confrontational steps that include intercepting and inspecting sea shipments into and out of the country.
 Many of the sanctions have been considered before, as part of a long-running argument within the Bush administration over the best way to deal with North Korea. After a series of emergency meetings, including one on Tuesday at the White House, officials on each side of that debate said a nuclear test would end the argument about whether the United States should emphasize rewards or penalties. 
 ''If the test happens, all the arguments are over,'' said one senior official in the midst of the debate. ''We'll end up going to full-scale sanctions; the only debate is what 'full-scale' means.'' 
 On Wednesday night, Christopher R. Hill, the assistant secretary of state for East Asia and Pacific affairs and a leading proponent of making new creative diplomatic offers to the North, announced that ''we are not going to live with a nuclear North Korea.''
 Administration officials concede that the United States has been living with a nuclear North Korea for years. But the fact that North Korea has not yet tested its weapons has created enough diplomatic ambiguity that President Bush has not had to confront how he would enforce his own declaration in 2003 that he would never tolerate a nuclear-armed North Korea. 
 American intelligence agencies have long declared that North Korea has produced the fuel for nuclear weapons, but in recent days, their briefings have also included an assessment based on the expectation that the North is likely to make good on its threat to conduct an underground test. 
 The briefings include the important caveat that such assessments are based more on an evaluation of the political environment and North Korean strategy than on physical evidence that a test is imminent. The briefings were described by several government officials, who said they did not forecast a specific timetable.
 The question of sanctions is an enormously delicate one, which officials will not discuss on the record because the issue is still under debate. The officials who did discuss them, however, came from both camps in the administration, and they appeared unified in sending North Korea a warning that a test would galvanize Washington into actions that some administration hawks have proposed for years.
 Mr. Bush, several officials said, planned to call the president of China, Hu Jintao, in coming days to urge him to send an emissary to North Korea to deliver a sharp warning about the consequences of a test. They said Mr. Bush was also planning to call other leaders in the region. 
 Frederick Jones, a National Security Council spokesman, would only say, ''Our objective is to try to use our influence, and the influence of others, to convince the North Koreans that they should not test a nuclear device.''
 But American officials are clearly concerned that the appeal to Beijing will not prove sufficient. ''The last time the Chinese did this after the missile tests'' that North Korea launched in early July, ''their delegation was left cooling their heels for days,'' one senior official said. Others cautioned that China always shied away from the ultimate sanction, cutting off the North's oil, for fear that it could set off an economic or political collapse that would result in chaos along the border.
 So for now the United States is seeking to win agreement on a ''president's statement'' from the United Nations Security Council warning North Korea against a test. But the threatened test comes as the administration is already trying to persuade the Security Council to make good on its threat to impose sanctions against Iran for defying a call for it to suspend uranium enrichment. That situation is the subject of a meeting in London on Friday that Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice will attend.
 Some American officials are concerned that adding North Korea to the list of countries the United States wants punished could complicate those efforts and fracture a fragile coalition. But the under secretary of state for political affairs, R. Nicholas Burns, said in a telephone interview on Thursday that he did not believe the Council was growing either weary or leery of threatening sanctions.
 ''You haven't heard a single country support the North Koreans this week,'' Mr. Burns said. ''And we have made it very clear that should they test, we will work for a Chapter VII resolution at the Council,'' a reference to the section of the United Nations Charter that declares a country's act to be a threat to peace and security, and can pave the way for retaliation.
 The potential sanctions against North Korea are described in a series of classified options papers that have been circulating among senior administration officials. 
 The proposed sanctions, which are graduated, could begin with a significant tightening on economic transactions -- a process that began last year with action against a small bank in Macao that is widely believed to have handled transactions for President Kim Jong-il and other leaders, and that American investigators say was involved in money laundering. 
 A more escalated measure would involve inspection of all shipping, using a provision of a Security Council resolution passed after the July missile tests that allows nations to block missile or missile-related transactions.
 But the reality is that North Korea receives most of its goods over the Chinese and Russian borders. Kurt Campbell, a former Defense Department official who specializes in Asia and is now at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said, ''Without leveraging the Chinese to put firm pressure on, very little can be accomplished by the U.S. through sanctions.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%) Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Atomic Energy; Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); HU JINTAO (56%) David E Sanger; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); CHINA (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%) North Korea

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2006



136 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: German Chief Forges Accord On Financing Health Care 

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Oct. 5 

 BODY:
Chancellor Angela Merkel has survived the most serious threat to her fragile, 10-month-old government, emerging from a marathon, late-night negotiating session on Thursday with an agreement for new financing of Germany's straitened health care system.
 But the plan, which Mrs. Merkel once promoted as the centerpiece of her agenda, falls short of a basic overhaul of the huge system and puts off the most important changes until January 2009 -- by which time, some critics say, her ''grand coalition'' may no longer exist. 
The noisy debate over health care has become a sort of crucible for the chancellor, testing her ability to reconcile differences between her Christian Democratic Party and its partner, the Social Democratic Party. This compromise, analysts say, shows how hobbled Mrs. Merkel is in taking radical steps.
 ''The chancellor promised to deliver a grand solution, which was improbable from the start,'' said Reinhard Butikofer, co-chairman of the opposition Green Party. ''What really failed was this ill-conceived idea that a grand coalition produces grand solutions. It does not.''
 The watered-down deal deprives Mrs. Merkel of the only bold measure left in her portfolio. Other proposed changes, like loosening Germany's hidebound labor market, were shelved even before the government took power because of ideological differences between the parties.
 Far from being a German Margaret Thatcher, as her most ardent supporters once hoped, Mrs. Merkel, 52, has had to devote most of her energy to tamping down internal disputes before they split the coalition.
 The dispute over health care is a case in point. After a broad agreement was reached in July, internal bickering forced Mrs. Merkel to delay carrying out the plan by three months, until April 2007.
 The stalemate hurt her political standing, reducing approval ratings for the Christian Democrats to their lowest level since the reunification of Germany in 1990. Another political cloud is Mrs. Merkel's insistence on substantially increasing the value-added-tax next year. With the party's regional bosses taking shots at her, political analysts had speculated that the coalition would splinter.
 Having set a do-or-die session for Wednesday evening, Mrs. Merkel was plainly relieved to have cut any deal.
 ''We succeeded, and anyone who knows how complicated things are in health policy also knows that the coalition has succeeded in a very important step,'' she said in an interview with a German television news channel, before heading to Turkey and a respite from domestic politics.
 Few dispute that the health care system needs to be overhauled, and that none of the remedies are simple.
 Germany spends more on health care, as a percentage of its economic output, than all countries except Switzerland and the United States. With the rising cost of care, an aging population and chronic high unemployment, a shortfall of nearly $9 billion is projected this year.
 At the heart of the system are 252 public health insurance companies, which are financed through a premium paid by employers and employees that amounts to roughly 14 percent of workers' annual salaries.
 Conservatives in Mrs. Merkel's party originally pushed for a flat-rate premium, which would cut the link between income level and health care payments. This, they said, would lower Germany's labor costs and encourage companies to hire again. But the Social Democrats balked.
 In the end, the parties agreed to raise the premium to 14.7 percent of salaries in 2007, to allow the insurers to close their deficit. They also agreed to pool the contributions in a state-run central fund, which would disburse a uniform amount to each insurance provider to cover their policyholders. The rationale is to force inefficient health insurers to cut costs.
 But this proposal got stuck, among other things, on a disagreement over a separate provision that would add an extra premium to cover future shortfalls in insurance coverage. The government decided to delay the central fund by six months, until January 2009, to resolve these differences.
 ''They are inventing new ways to raise revenue,'' said Thomas Mayer, the chief European economist at Deutsche Bank. ''What I don't see are ways to reduce spending. It's the same old system.''
 Mr. Butikofer said the government would have done better to focus on smaller steps, like encouraging more competition among pharmacies, or between public and private health insurance providers.
 Some analysts argue that the fine points of Germany's health care system are almost beside the point, in what is basically a power struggle between Mrs. Merkel and rival conservative leaders.
 Bavaria's prime minister, Edmund Stoiber, who leads the Christian Social Union, a sister party of the Christian Democrats, said he would withhold judgment until he read the draft legislation. Mr. Stoiber, a former candidate for chancellor, has never masked his skepticism about the coalition.
 ''These regional princes are trying to weaken her,'' said John C. Kornblum, a banker in Berlin and former American ambassador to Germany. ''This has sapped a good deal of her energy and credibility.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Angela Merkel yesterday in Ankara at the tomb of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, founder of the Turkish republic. (Photo by Peer Grimm/European Pressphoto Agency)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (65%); AGING TRENDS (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); VALUE ADDED TAX (50%); AGING (50%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Politics and Government; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (56%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (93%) Mark Landler; Angela (Chancellor) Merkel; Kemal (1881-1938) Ataturk

GEOGRAPHIC: ANKARA, TURKEY (65%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (98%); TURKEY (94%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Germany ; Turkey

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2006



137 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: North Korea and the Dominoes

 BODY:
Here's a scenario to keep you up nights. North Korea tests a nuclear weapon, and Japan, South Korea and Taiwan start thinking they need one too. Meanwhile, over in the Middle East, Iran's neighbors start asking themselves why they should even wait for Tehran to go nuclear before starting their own programs. 
 Which is why the Bush administration, and other critical players, need to do a lot more to talk North Korea back from the nuclear ledge -- and to keep it there.
It has been months since negotiators even sat down at a table. And the two countries with the most potential leverage -- China and the United States -- have found it easier to play down the urgency of the threat than to do what's needed to deal with Pyongyang's undeniable craziness. 
 In China's case, that means delivering an unambiguous warning to its longtime client that a nuclear test will be followed by an immediate and painful reduction in Chinese subsidies and aid. And President Bush will have to make his own unambiguous commitment that the United States will not try to overthrow the North Korean government -- if it gives up its weapons program. 
 Experts still debate whether China got the North Koreans to the table by briefly cutting off oil deliveries -- or doling out cash. There's no doubt China has the leverage. But China's autocrats are so enamored of any status quo -- and so nervous about having to house and feed the North's refugees -- that they have resisted using it. Instead, Chinese officials say that the North probably hasn't built a weapon, or if it has, wouldn't ever use it. That's what we call being in denial. It is a luxury Beijing can no longer indulge. 
 Mr. Bush cannot indulge his own ambivalence over whether it would be better to negotiate with Kim Jong-il or try to overthrow him. North Korea may have the most erratic, brutal and opaque leadership in the world. And it's impossible to know whether the ''dear leader'' would really trade away his weapons program for any price. But this White House has yet to test him. In the most recent whipsaw, Mr. Bush agreed to offer economic and security incentives to Pyongyang but then undercut the offer by imposing new sanctions on North Korean banks. Pyongyang has refused to come back to the table ever since. 
 While you're contemplating nuclear dominoes, here's another reason to stay up at night. In its search for cash, North Korea has become expert at selling pretty much anything to anyone: counterfeit dollars, bootlegged cigarettes, ballistic missiles. Can plutonium be far behind?
 The dangers are very real. What's needed now is real pressure and real diplomacy to get the North out of the nuclear weapons business -- preferably before a nuclear test shows potential buyers just how well its weapons work. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (73%); REFUGEES (68%); COUNTERFEITING (60%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations; Editorials; Tests and Testing; Nuclear Tests

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%); KIM JONG IL (58%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (78%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (76%) CHINA (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); JAPAN (92%); TAIWAN (92%); IRAN (73%) North Korea; Japan; China; South Korea; Middle East; Iran; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2006



138 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Ford Interest In Alliance Apparently Has Waned 

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 5 

 BODY:
Timing is everything, and Carlos Ghosn, who heads the automakers Nissan and Renault, may have missed his chance to fashion a global alliance.
 Mr. Ghosn has made it clear he wants a North American partner. But after negotiations with General Motors fell apart Wednesday, the only other logical candidate to join an alliance with Mr. Ghosn, the Ford Motor Company, is no longer eager to bring him aboard.
Ford's chairman, William Clay Ford Jr., tried to hire Mr. Ghosn as chief executive last year and called him during the summer to get next in line if things did not work out with G.M. 
 Since then, Mr. Ford has named a new chief executive, Alan R. Mulally, and, a person with knowledge of Ford's plans said, the company has lost interest in pursuing an alliance.
 Ford, which is expected to lose as much as $9 billion this year, believes it can resolve its financial crisis without any outside help, this person said.
 Experts said the hiring of Mr. Mulally, who is credited with turning around Boeing's business in commercial jets, is a clear sign that Ford does not want to pursue a partnership with Mr. Ghosn and his companies.
 ''I wouldn't be surprised to have them talking, but that would be about it for the time being,'' said Gerald C. Meyers, who was chief executive of American Motors before it was bought by the Chrysler Corporation. Chrysler now is part of DaimlerChrysler, which is based in Germany and is, therefore, not seen as a possibility to join an alliance.
 ''It's pretty clear to me that they decided to go after their crisis with a crisis manager named Mulally,'' Mr. Meyers said. ''They've pushed their chips all over on that number, and I think they're going to want to see that through.''
 Ford has repeatedly declined to comment on what it considers speculation about its plans, although its chief financial officer, Don R. Leclair, hinted during the Paris Motor Show last week that the company had soured on the idea of an alliance.
 ''We've thought about a lot of things,'' Mr. Leclair told Bloomberg News. ''We've concluded for now that what we want to focus on is fixing our business.''
 Mr. Ghosn has been more forthcoming about his intentions, telling reporters in Paris that he would continue to seek a partner in North America if the G.M. discussions were called off.
 ''The expansion of the alliance to a North American partner makes sense,'' Mr. Ghosn said. 
 A Nissan spokeswoman repeated those comments on Wednesday, after G.M. confirmed that its board voted against continuing the talks.
 G.M.'s chief executive, Rick Wagoner, said his company had concluded that it would benefit from a partnership much less than Nissan and Renault and had demanded compensation for the disparity. Mr. Ghosn balked, and the executives agreed to part ways in a phone call on Wednesday morning.
 G.M. appeared to resist an alliance from the outset of the discussions, which began in July at the urging of Kirk Kerkorian, a large G.M. shareholder. While Mr. Ghosn's team spent more than two months engaged in what turned out to be fruitless talks with G.M., Ford decided to move on without Mr. Ghosn.
 Mr. Mulally accepted an offer to join Ford last month and began his new job on Sunday.
 At this point, exploring an alliance with Mr. Ghosn could be demoralizing to Ford's employees, Mr. Meyers said.
 Mr. Ghosn's success in revitalizing Nissan made him somewhat of a celebrity in the auto industry, and it is widely expected that he would ultimately take control of whatever company joined him in an alliance.
 ''It would be a sign of uncertainty and, in a way, of a lack of confidence in the guy that they just hired,'' Mr. Meyers said.
 Jon Rogers, an automotive analyst with Citigroup in New York, does not expect Ford to talk with Nissan and Renault anytime soon but said, ''It would surprise me if it wasn't discussed longer term.''
 ''The new C.E.O. just needs to get his feet wet and begin executing on his own plan,'' Mr. Rogers said. ''He's been there what, four days?''
 If talks between Ford and Nissan-Renault do ever happen, analysts say they will find more common ground than G.M. and Nissan-Renault did.
 ''Ford is really a much more natural partner'' for Nissan-Renault, said David Cole, chairman of the Center for Automotive Research.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (89%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%) Automobiles; Automobiles

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (94%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (85%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); BOEING CO (55%); BLOOMBERG LP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Ford Motor Co; General Motors Corp; Renault Sa; Nissan Motor Co

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); 7201 (TSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (55%); BAB (BRU) (55%); BA (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: CARLOS GHOSN (93%); ALAN MULALLY (89%); RICK WAGONER (57%) Nick Bunkley; Carlos Ghosn; William Clay Jr Ford; Alan R Mulally

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (69%); FRANCE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2006



139 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: To Muted Cheers, the Dow Climbs Past a Record 

BYLINE: By MARK A. STEIN

 BODY:
STOCKS shattered records. Corporate profits soared. Economists waxed about a so-called Goldilocks economy -- not too hot, not too cold. Sound familiar? That was the siren song of the 1990's economic boom, and there was an eerie echo on Wall Street this week.
 The only thing missing this time was the mirth. A wary sense of relief greeted a record for blue-chip stocks. Robust profit reports came with warnings of weak numbers to come. A fingers-crossed optimism underpinned economic forecasts. 
And then there was another echo of the boom: a new round of criminal indictments of senior corporate officials. This time the charges were not for fraud or theft, but for spying.

A RELUCTANT RECORD -- After flirting with the record for several days running, the Dow Jones industrial average of 30 major stocks cracked the record closing high it set in January 2000 amid a technology-driven boom.
 The rally, which peaked for the week on Thursday with a record close of 11,866.69, was driven not by expectations of rapid economic growth, as it was seven years ago, but by a rapid fall in energy prices caused in part by expectations that global economic growth is slowing.
 Some economists interpreted lower oil prices and a cooling housing market as signs of more-stable growth rather than a slump. Others, however, noted that the Dow is a narrow measure of the market and that other closely watched benchmarks, including the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Nasdaq composite index, are still well below their tech-bubble records.
 More information on the economy's direction will come on Friday, when retail sales figures are released.

SPYING CHARGES -- California authorities indicted Patricia C. Dunn, the former chairwoman of Hewlett-Packard, and four other people on criminal charges in the corporate espionage case that has rocked the company.
 In addition to Ms. Dunn, the indictment named Kevin T. Hunsaker, a former senior lawyer at H.P.; Ronald DeLia, a private detective from Massachusetts; Matthew DePante, manager of the Action Research Group, a Melbourne, Fla., information broker; and Bryan C. Wagner, a Colorado man who is believed to have obtained private phone records while working for Mr. DePante.
 All five defendants were charged with using false or fraudulent pretenses to obtain confidential information from a public utility, unauthorized access to computer data, identity theft and conspiracy to commit each of those crimes. All of the charges are felonies. Lawyers for Ms. Dunn and Mr. DePante said their clients were innocent. The other defendants and their lawyers did not immediately respond. 
 California's attorney general, Bill Lockyer, filed the charges, which stem from an internal H.P. investigation into leaks of confidential discussions among its directors. As part of the investigation, private investigators working for the company apparently used deception to obtain the private telephone records of company officials and others. 
 The United States attorney's office for Northern California is also conducting its own investigation, and could file federal charges in the case soon.

BIG BET -- A pair of private-equity firms teamed up to offer $15 billion in cash for Harrah's Entertainment, the country's largest casino operator. Combined with Harrah's long-term debt of $10 billion, the buyout would be worth more than $25 billion, making it one of the largest leveraged buyouts ever.
 Private equity firms have raised billions of dollars this year to buy publicly traded companies, improve their management or financing, and then sell them or take them public to realize a profit. Until now, they have rarely tapped the gambling industry, and the offer sent the shares of other casino operators soaring. Harrah's operates Harrah's, Caesars and Horseshoe casinos in Las Vegas, Atlantic City and elsewhere.
 Casino takeovers require buyers to be approved by gambling regulators in each state where the company operates, to make sure that organized crime does not infiltrate the industry.

STOCK CAR RACE -- Led by the introduction of its new pickup truck, Toyota said its sales in the United States jumped 20 percent last month and the company closed in on Ford as the No. 2 car company in America.
 Toyota's gains came even as receding gasoline prices and generous manufacturer rebates propped up sagging sales of pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles, normally a field dominated by General Motors, Ford and Chrysler.
 Ford increased its market share slightly, to 17.3 percent, but Toyota expanded faster and accounted for 16.5 percent of the market. Sales at G.M. fell almost 7 percent and its market share slipped to 21.6 percent.
 With large inventories of unsold 2006 models, automakers plan to offer bigger incentives, including no-interest financing or thousands of dollars in cash rebates.

JUMBO PROBLEM -- Persistent assembly-line problems will further delay the first deliveries of the A380 superjumbo jet by Airbus, perhaps by as much as one more year, pushing the program off by a full two years.
 The European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, the parent company of Airbus, also warned that the delays would cut earnings over the next four years by 4.8 billion euros ($6.1 billion), more than double the amount forecast in June.
 Compounding the problem, Emirates, the largest customer for the A380 plane, signaled publicly that it might cancel part of its multibillion-dollar order for the superjumbo jet. Emirates, which hopes to expand its long-haul international airline service through its base in the Middle East, was originally scheduled to receive its first planes this year; now the earliest it would receive its first jetliners is 2008.
 EADS and Airbus said the first A380 would be delivered next year, to Singapore Airlines in October, down from nine that had been promised as recently as June.

MOST POPULAR -- Following are the most-popular business news articles on nytimes.com from Sept. 30 through Oct. 6:

1. Colliding With Death at 37,000 Feet, and Living
2. Wal-Mart to Add Wage Caps and Part-Timers
3. Anti-U.S. Attack Videos Spread on Web
4. And if You Liked the Movie, a Netflix Contest May Reward You Handsomely
5. Is Th-Th-That All, Folks?

Links are at nytimes.com/business.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A bystander holding a newspaper heckled Patricia C. Dunn, the former chairwoman of Hewlett-Packard, as she left court Thursday in San Jose, Calif. (Photo by Jessica Brandi Lifland for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Chronology

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); INDICTMENTS (89%); ESPIONAGE (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (89%); LAWYERS (89%); INVESTIGATIVE SERVICES (88%); AIRLINES (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (79%); FUTURES (79%); AIRCRAFT MFG (79%); GAMING (79%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (79%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); COMPUTER CRIME (75%); CONSPIRACY (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); FELONIES (75%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (74%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); SPACE INDUSTRY (70%); ETHICS (69%); IDENTITY THEFT (69%); DIVESTITURES (69%); WIRETAPPING (65%); RETAIL SALES (63%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); LARCENY & THEFT (55%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Records and Achievements; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Futures and Options Trading ; Economic Conditions and Trends; Computers and the Internet; Boards of Directors; Stocks and Bonds; Ethics; News and News Media; Wiretapping and Other Eavesdropping Devices and Methods; Industrial Espionage; Detectives (Private); Stocks and Bonds; Gambling; Casinos ; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Automobiles; Stocks and Bonds; Ratings and Rating Systems; Sales; Airlines and Airplanes; Production

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Hewlett-Packard Co; Action Research Group (Co); Harrah's Entertainment Inc; Apollo Group Inc; Texas Pacific Group ; Toyota Motor Corp; Ford Motor Co; General Motors Corp; Airbus Industrie; European Aeronautic Defense & Space Co; Emirates Airlines

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: Mark A Stein; Patricia C Dunn; Kevin T Hunsaker; Ronald R Delia; Matthew Depante; Bryan Wagner

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Las Vegas (Nev)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2006



140 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 188 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Borrowing Slowed in August

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 6 

 BODY:
Consumer borrowing rose in August at the slowest pace in five months, reflecting weaker demand for auto loans, the Federal Reserve reported Friday. 
 Consumer borrowing rose at an annual rate of 2.6 percent in August, compared with a 4.3 percent rate of increase in July. It was the slowest performance since March, when borrowing declined.
The overall economy slowed in the spring as consumers were battered by soaring energy costs, rising interest rates and a cooling housing market.
 Borrowing in the category that includes credit cards rose at an annual rate of 4.2 percent in August, after a gain of 4.7 percent in July.
 Both of those gains were below the double-digit increases in May and June, months when economists say consumers were using their credit cards as a way to cope with soaring energy prices.
 For August, borrowing for auto loans rose at an annual rate of 1.6 percent, far below the 4.1 percent gain in auto and other nonrevolving loans in July.
 Total consumer debt rose by $4.99 billion at an annual rate, to a record of $2.35 trillion in August. The August increase was in line with economists' expectations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL DEBT (93%); CONSUMER LENDING (92%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%) Credit; Consumer Credit ; Automobiles; Credit and Money Cards; Records and Achievements; Credit

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2006



141 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: Dow Set a Record in Height, but Weight Had a Lot to Do With That

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Averages can be deceiving, as many investors can attest.
 The Dow Jones industrial average, the best-known stock index in the United States, broke through its old high this week, for the first time exceeding the level of 10,722 set on Jan. 14, 2000. But only 10 of the 30 stocks in the index are higher than they were then.
By contrast, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was 9 percent lower than it was in January 2000, and even farther below its level when it peaked in March of that year. But most stocks in that index are higher than they were in 2000. 
 The Nasdaq composite index, which a decade ago was often cited as an indicator of small-stock performance, is still more than 40 percent below its high levels of 2000. But the Russell 2000, also viewed as an indicator of small-stock performance, is up more than 40 percent since January 2000. 
 How can that be? It relates to how the indexes are computed, and to what they capture. The Dow never had the technology representation of some other indexes, which held it back in the old days and holds it up now. Moreover, it is calculated on a price-weighted basis, so that high-priced stocks have larger influences than lower-priced ones.
 The S.& P., like most indexes, is calculated on a market capitalization basis, which means the most important stocks are the ones with the highest market value. Many of those stocks were swept up in 2000, as conservative investors bought the big-cap stocks, and are still recovering from that overvaluation.
 The Nasdaq composite was, and is, heavily influenced by technology stocks. But the Russell 2000, which is periodically reconstituted to include the stocks with market capitalization ranks from 1,001 to 3,000, dropped many of those overvalued stocks as they grew larger, and thus was not as hurt in the bubble's aftermath.
 As the graphic shows, the markets to invest in since 2000 have not been the ones most investors were comfortable with then. Most European markets are shown as being higher than they were in early 2000, but most or all of those increases reflect the fact that the moves are based on dollar performance. The CAC 40 in France, for example, is shown as being up 13 percent, but it is down almost 10 percent in euros. The gain came solely from the dollar's weakness.
 The big winners were in emerging markets, often ones that investors had good reasons to avoid after the 1998 currency crises. A major Russian index is up 651 percent. Hungary, where there have been recent riots after the prime minister admitted lying to win re-election, is up 161 percent. (All figures are from Jan. 14, 2000, to Oct. 3, 2006.)
 Peru is up nearly 500 percent, and Mexico has risen 150 percent. The Prague stock index in the Czech Republic is up almost 350 percent, but that performance seems poor next to that of the Slovak index next door, which has risen more than 600 percent.
 Even Lebanon, whose economy and political situation have not exactly been good of late, is up 84 percent.
 Can this continue? The tech stocks kept rising long after some warned they were ridiculously overvalued. But when they fell, they fell far and fast as owners found that no one wanted to buy them. That could happen to some of today's favorites as well.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Percentage change of national stock market indexes, in dollars''Jan. 14, 2000, to Oct. 3, 2006The Dow Jones industrial average hit a new high this week, climbing above what had been its record close set on Jan. 14, 2000. World stock markets since 2000 have shown a preference for emerging countries and a suspicion of established ones. Smaller stocks have done better in many markets, while technology stocks, the big winners six years ago, have lagged badly.U.S.AmericasRussell 2000: + 41.53%Dow Jones industrials: + 0.04S.& P. 500-stock index: - 8.94Nasdaq composite: - 44.80Peru: + 477.45Mexico: + 150.34Chile: + 85.59Canada: + 78.16Brazil: + 71.09Argentina: - 7.36EuropeRussia: + 651.20%Austria: + 265.18Hungary: + 161.14Spain: + 44.65Switzerland: + 42.97Italy: + 14.92France: + 13.46Germany: + 5.08Britain: + 3.19Netherlands: - 7.58Asia and AfricaEgypt: + 212.05%India: + 115.29South Africa: + 91.08Australia: + 85.81Korea: + 70.91China: + 30.30Singapore: + 14.76Hong Kong: + 13.10Japan: - 23.07Taiwan: - 28.05(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); BONDS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (61%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Records and Achievements; Russell 2000 Stock Index; Stocks and Bonds

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CHINA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); HONG KONG (79%); ASIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (74%); SPAIN (72%); SINGAPORE (70%); GERMANY (67%); AUSTRIA (66%); NETHERLANDS (52%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2006



142 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 836 words

PERSON: Gilbert White

HEADLINE: Gilbert White, 94, Advocate of Accommodating Nature

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
Gilbert F. White, a geographer whose philosophy of accommodating nature instead of trying to master it had profound effects on policy and environmental thought, died on Thursday at his home in Boulder, Colo. He was 94.
 His death was announced by the University of Colorado, where he was Gustavson distinguished professor emeritus of geography. He officially retired in 1980.
 Dr. White's early work focused on flood control, with the seeds of a revolution planted in his doctoral dissertation at the University of Chicago in 1942. ''Floods are 'acts of god,' but flood losses are largely acts of man,'' he wrote. 
 Instead of simply building dams, levees and other controls that can actually encourage development in vulnerable areas, he argued, society should reduce risks by steps like discouraging such development. His ideas and advocacy led to the creation of the National Flood Insurance Program in the United States and programs to manage flood plains around the world.
 ''His influence and contribution to making communities safer around the globe can scarcely be measured,'' said David Maurstad, the head of the flood-insurance program at the Federal Emergency Management Agency. 
 Dr. White's interests broadened to wider environmental hazards and social issues. In a speech in 1952 at Haverford College, he urged nations to engage economic development and conservation in programs, but not just through big projects.
 ''The tide of poverty will be turned only by the concurrent development of a vast number of small-scale projects centering upon the patient, simple action of workers in rural communities of Asia, the Middle East and Latin America,'' he said. ''Perhaps we may envisage a new kind of army, a peace force, of young people recruited and trained under international direction for the task of building healthy and prosperous communities.''
 The first director of the Peace Corps, R. Sargent Shriver, invited Dr. White to join the effort, but he declined, as he did all invitations to work directly for the government after service in the New Deal. Dr. White's biographer, Robert Hinshaw, has said he was reluctant to be required to base his decisions on government policies instead of his own principles.
 Dr. White's son, William D. White, director of the Sloan program in health administration at Cornell and a professor in the Cornell department of policy analysis and management, said his father had proved masterly at getting people together and forging agreement. Mr. White said his father's views were deeply rooted in his Quaker faith, which also led him to be a conscientious objector in World War II. 
 As an alternative to military service in the war, Dr. White joined the American Friends Service Committee and aided refugees in France. He was captured in 1943 and was a prisoner of war in Baden-Baden, Germany, until 1944, when he was allowed to return to the United States. 
 From 1963 to 1969, he was chairman of the American Friends Service Committee. 
 Gilbert Fowler White was born on Nov. 26, 1911, in the Hyde Park neighborhood of Chicago. He received undergraduate and graduate degrees from the University of Chicago. A former president of Haverford -- named to the post at age 34 -- he went on to teach at the University of Chicago and the University of Colorado, where he founded the Natural Hazards Research Center. Dr. White was executive editor of Environment magazine from 1983 to 1992 and worked in the late 90's to bring together Middle East nations to collaborate on developing and conserving water resources. 
 His work earned many honors, including the National Medal of Science, which he received in 2000, and the National Geographic Society's highest award, the Hubbard Medal. His long list of publications can be found at http://www.colorado.edu/hazards/gfw/. 
 Along with his son, also surviving are his second wife, Claire Sheridan; two children, Mary, of Boulder, and Frances Chapin of Edmonds, Wash.; two stepchildren, Monika Profitt of Seattle and Daniel Profitt of Boulder; and four grandchildren. His first wife, Anne Elizabeth Underwood, died in 1989.
 Robert Kates, a geographer and professor emeritus at Brown University who was Dr. White's student and then a co-author, said his central insight -- that big engineering efforts to repair environmental problems do not always work ''and, in many cases, make the problem worse'' -- is just as important today. 
 ''The basic problem is how to get people off the flood plain,'' he said. ''And after all these years, here we are with Katrina.''
 Dr. White was uncommonly self-effacing, Dr. Kates noted. The two men attended a talk on managing flood plains by an official of the Army Corps of Engineers in the early 60's, and Dr. Kates noticed that the speech could have been drawn from Dr. White's own work.
 ''Gilbert,'' Dr. Kates recalled whispering to his friend, ''he's quoting you, but he never cites you!''
 His mentor, Dr. Kates added, ''turned and smiled, and said, 'Yes, isn't it wonderful?' ''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gilbert F. White (Photo by University of Colorado)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary(Obits)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); FLOOD INSURANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (86%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); GEOGRAPHY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); FLOOD ZONES (76%); FLOOD CONTROL (76%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (76%); WORLD WAR II (75%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); ARMIES (72%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (71%); WRITERS (69%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (67%); REFUGEES (60%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (60%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (55%)

John Schwartz

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%) COLORADO, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (69%); GERMANY (64%)

CATEGORY: Nature and Environment

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2006



143 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 296 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Dept. Gives Expatriates Partial Tax Relief on Housing

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Expatriate Americans living in high-rent cities like Hong Kong and London will be partly spared from a tax increase on their employer-sponsored housing allowances, the Treasury Department said yesterday. 
 The department said employees could exclude up to $101,116 in housing subsidies from income subject to tax if they live in Hong Kong and $58,916 if they live in London; adjustments for other cities are included in the notice. A law passed in May would have set the cap at $11,536.
The notice issued yesterday ''permits individuals who work outside the United States and live in foreign countries with high housing costs to deduct or exclude a greater portion of their housing costs.'' The increased deductions are retroactive to Jan. 1, the department said.
 More than 300,000 Americans living abroad may be subject to a $2.1 billion tax increase over the next 10 years under the law passed in May, which imposes new or additional taxes on housing, education and other subsidies that are provided by employers to expatriate workers.
 The notice, which will be updated annually to adjust for inflation, is based on State Department data on the cost of living in foreign cities. It lists housing costs in hundreds of cities, in countries from Argentina to Vietnam. Americans living abroad whose housing is not subsidized by an employer can claim the amounts in the table as a tax deduction.
 Kenneth Kies, a partner at a Washington lobbying firm, Clark Consulting, said the notice omitted housing for Americans living in China and Saudi Arabia.
 ''This guidance has a big hole in it,'' said Mr. Kies, who said he had several clients in those countries and would file comments on the notice. ''Last time I checked, U.S. companies are doing a lot of business in these places.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (79%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); INCOME TAX (77%) Housing; Americans Abroad; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Law and Legislation; Renting and Leasing 

ORGANIZATION: Treasury Department

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (96%); HONG KONG (94%); CHINA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%) Hong Kong; London (Eng); United States

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2006



144 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; WHAT'S ONLINE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: Foie Gras on the Legislative Plate

BYLINE: By DAN MITCHELL

 BODY:
''SO how did I get here, defending the killing of God's creatures?'' the celebrity chef Anthony Bourdain asks plaintively. The creatures, in this case, are ducks. 
 The man he's asking, a fellow celebrity chef, Michael Ruhlman, is sympathetic, but he can't help but throw in a few zingers, as when he asks Mr. Bourdain, ''So, are you just off on another of your bobble-head-doll rants?''
The conversation, solicited by Salon and conducted via e-mail, centered on how the ''food police'' are making life tough not just for famous chefs, but for the entire food industry (salon.com). 
 Michael J. Panter, a New Jersey legislator, has proposed a ban on the forcible feeding of ducks and geese to make foie gras -- which is produced from their fattened livers. Animal-rights activists decry the practice, called gavage. The proposal comes after a similar ban in Chicago and a proposed ban on trans fats in New York City restaurants. 
 The biggest problem with the proposed New Jersey law, according to Mr. Bourdain, is that the state is home to D'Artagnan, the company that started the fresh foie gras revolution in the United States two decades ago. Mr. Panter's law, according to Salon, could ''effectively cripple the production and consumption of foie gras not only in New York City's great temples of gastronomy, but in restaurants and homes around the country.''
 Ariane Daguin, the founder and owner of D'Artagnan, ''is not just the foie gras lady,'' Mr. Bourdain writes, ''she was a Gertrude Stein to a veritable salon of hotshot New York chefs.''
 D'Artagnan sells much more than just foie gras, offering all kinds of gourmet meats and other products. Ms. Daguin is ''a one-woman supply train for every French chef in New York and consequently any American chef with aspirations to be among the best.'' 
 Cutting off her foie gras could mean halting that supply train, he laments. 
 But what about this gavage business? Isn't it wrong to ram a tube down a duck's throat to pump food into it? Sure, Mr. Bourdain writes. And not only is it bad, but it makes for bad foie gras, but ''that's not what D'Artagnan sells.''
 Although the fowl is fed through a tube, Mr. Bourdain writes that in ''proper foie gras farming, the same feeder tends the duck every day, and more often than not, it's the duck who approaches the feeder.They have room to run around, to live a good, natural life -- even a pampered one -- compared with the horrifying and vastly more widespread practice of raising battery chickens.'' 
 Battery chickens are raised in a factorylike setting, stuffed into cages, and are induced through artificial lighting to produce as many eggs as they can before they are slaughtered once their egg production levels off -- usually around 18 months. There's no law against that.

SUSTAINABILE BARGAIN? The threat of global warming could be staved off at the cost of just one year's worth of economic growth over the next four decades, according to a study by PricewaterhouseCoopers released this week (pwc.com).
 But the consulting firm says its plan would work only if it is put into place immediately. 
 The plan itself is nothing really new -- it calls for more energy efficiency, the use of more renewable fuels and emission-reduction technologies.
 ''Political will, of course, is the wild card here,'' writes Jeff McIntire-Strasburg who maintains a blog (sustainablog.blogspot.com). He asks his readers if they have ''any ideas on how this might be sold to politicians eager to gain and/or retain an office?'' So far, nobody has responded. 

LETTER IMPERFECT -- On its Web site, Killian & Company Advertising, which specializes in branding, offers portions of some actual cover letters from job candidates (killianadvertising.com). Cover letters are ''where we find the most tortured prose ever set to paper,'' the site says.
 No kidding. Some examples: ''Who's better to spew out incite, than a college senior ... ?''; ''I also want to obtain a deeper understanding of how Advertising firms.''; and ''I also have a degree English which serves me well in editing text for poor grammer or typos.'' DAN MITCHELL


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Alex Eben Meyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); POULTRY (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); ANIMAL WELFARE (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); TRENDS (71%); MEATS (69%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (68%); CONSUMPTION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); GLOBAL WARMING (59%) Poultry; Ducks; Geese; Law and Legislation; Cruelty to Animals; Electronic Mail; Poultry; Economic Conditions and Trends; Weather; Global Warming; Fuel Efficiency; Computers and the Internet; Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Foie Gras

ORGANIZATION: Salon.com; Pricewaterhousecoopers; Killian & Co Advertising

PERSON: Dan Mitchell; Anthony Bourdain; Michael Ruhlman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2006



145 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: An Oil Baron Not Afraid To Be Candid

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Oil executives are usually cautious and secretive. Not Paolo Scaroni, the chief executive of Eni of Italy, one of the world's top oil companies, who doesn't mind speaking frankly about his industry's challenges. In a recent stopover in Vienna, between meetings in Moscow and Rome, where he had just announced a wide-ranging deal with Russia's state-owned company Gazprom, Mr. Scaroni answered some questions about the opaque world of oil. Following are excerpts: 


Q: Some people believe high oil prices are here to stay. Do you share that view?

A: First of all prices are not very high. Sixty dollars a barrel is not very high. If they were high, the American consumer in particular would behave differently. As long as each American consumer burns 26 barrels of oil per year against 12 for Europeans, this means that the prices are not high. High means that people start to say that I can use my energy better. Today, a barrel of oil is worth half a barrel of Coca-Cola. So you should put things into perspective. It has been clear to everybody that the Western world can live with oil above $30, $40, $50, $60, $70 a barrel and economies expand, inflation is low, and consumers continue to drive S.U.V.'s and air-conditioners are so high in American restaurants that you have to put on a coat otherwise you get sick.

Q. Are you saying the American economy is wasteful in its energy use?

A: Certainly it doesn't use energy efficiently. Look, if in America cars had the same efficiency as European cars, we would save the total production of Iran. That's four million barrels a day.

Q. So it's all the fault of Detroit and carmakers?

A. Even if the United States were independent, hydrocarbons would remain a limited resource. We have a total interest in using that limited resource to increase our efficiency, lengthening the life of the fossil fuels, for environmental reasons. This will more than compensate all the efforts we make in renewable energy. This is not to say we don't have to make renewables but the potential for efficiencies we have is enormous.

Q. How do you reconcile rising demand and the need for more supplies when governments make access more difficult?

A. First, I say it's their oil not mine. As a consequence we will have access to their oil as long as we bring something they cannot have by themselves. What do we bring -- technology, project management capability, investment -- something that adds value to them. If we do not add value we are out. Try going into Saudi Arabia and help Aramco to extract the easy oil. They don't need us. First of all they are a good company. Second the oil is easy. Why should they share something they can do by themselves. The second concept that I learned is that when oil prices move from $50 to $60 you cannot expect that this $10 difference falls into your pocket. You'd be happy if half of it went to you. All over the globe, there has been a big push to change the terms of the agreements over the past three years.

Q. Isn't that a risky admission for an oil executive to be making?

A. The same thing happens when prices fall. This time we renegotiate. When oil prices went down in the 1990's, we renegotiated. But if renegotiation goes too far, and international oil companies leave, and then production starts to drop. At that point governments understand that the terms and conditions are important and that we have our own interest.

Q: Are you concerned by the talk of possible economic sanctions being imposed against Iran?

A. I often say that unfortunately you don't find oil in Switzerland. I cannot choose. Since oil is not in Switzerland but it is in Russia, in Iran, in Kazakhstan, we have to be there. Then we modulate our presence according to terms and conditions. Terms and conditions that change all the time. But if you are not there, you are out.

Q. Iran is one place that has limited investments by foreign companies. It has also seen its production decline.

A. The two things go probably together.

Q. How so?

A. The fact that there are not many foreign companies probably is the reason production declines. Certainly in the fields we've been in charge of, the results have been spectacular. Beating all more optimistic forecasts.

GRAPHIC: Photo: PAOLO SCARONI

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); FUTURES (79%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (79%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (72%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (72%); AUTOMAKERS (68%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (68%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (63%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Futures and Options Trading

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (72%); COCA-COLA CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Eni Spa

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (72%); GAZP (RTS) (72%); KO (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (72%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (72%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (72%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (72%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (72%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (55%)

PERSON: Paolo Scaroni; Jad Mouawad

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%) UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); ITALY (88%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2006



146 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: City Prepares to Promote a New Tourist Site: Harbor District

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
New York City has long had a theater district, a garment district, a flower district, even a diamond district. Now, at least on paper, it has a harbor district.
 That is the label the Bloomberg administration has applied to a collection of islands and waterfront parks in and around Lower Manhattan that it wants to promote as a group of recreational areas and tourist destinations. City officials recently formed a Harbor District Advisory Board and have begun searching for the first director of the harbor district and consultants to study how to better exploit it.
 Yesterday, the city's Economic Development Corporation released a request for proposals for a comprehensive study of the nine sites that make up the harbor district. It asks for suggestions on creating a ''unified identity'' for the sites, which include Governors Island, the Statue of Liberty, Ellis Island and Battery Park City. A second contract will be let for a consultant to draw up a marketing and branding plan for the district, said Jennifer Falk, a spokeswoman for the mayor. 
 Unlike the city's other districts, which are discrete areas with common purposes, the harbor district is scattered from the western edge of Brooklyn to Liberty State Park in Jersey City. It comprises property controlled by a variety of city, state and federal agencies.
 Still, Daniel L. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development, has been stumping for a concerted effort to link these spots along the waterfront and coordinate their development and transportation among them. He pointed to Boston, San Francisco and Sydney, Australia, as models.
 ''We think the harbor is a magnificent differentiating factor,'' Mr. Doctoroff said. ''What we're doing is creating this unique mix of culture, recreation and history all tied together by the water, and that you don't have anywhere else in the world.''
 The consultants would advise the director of the harbor district, who would report directly to Mr. Doctoroff. 
 Plans for the study came as a surprise to some advocates for waterfront development who said they did not know that the mayor's recent references to a harbor district were more than rhetorical. Some wondered how a city official would ride herd over officials from the state, the National Park Service and New Jersey. 
 ''Clearly, there are big bureaucratic obstacles to getting everybody to play well together,'' said Robert Pirani, director of environmental programs for the Regional Plan Association. ''But the rewards are there in terms of cost savings in maintenance and services and marketing -- and a better experience for visitors and New Yorkers.''
 By far the best known and most popular attractions in the district are the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island, which together draw about three million visitors a year. The National Park Service, which controls those sites, is preparing to open bidding for the contract to provide ferry service to them. Mr. Doctoroff said he had been trying to persuade the park service to add ferries from more parts of the city, like Brooklyn and Governors Island.
 Maria Burks, the commissioner for the National Parks of New York Harbor, declined to discuss the next ferry contract yesterday. She said a request for proposals would be released by the end of the year.
 Ms. Burks, a member of the advisory board, said the audience for the group's efforts was not limited to tourists who visit the statue. ''There's a whole community of boroughs that has turned its back to the water that we're hoping will turn its face back to the water,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Map of New Jersey, Manhattan, Staten Island, Brooklyn and Queens highlighting the location of the proposed Harbor District: The harbor district will go from Liberty State Park to Brooklyn. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); THEATER (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); CITIES (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); STATE PARKS (77%); TOURISM (77%); LEISURE TRAVEL (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (75%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); MARKETING PLAN (72%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (57%) Parks and Other Recreation Areas; Travel and Vacations

PERSON: Patrick Mcgeehan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AUSTRALIA (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2006



147 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Who Benefits From the Drug Plan?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Falling Into the Doughnut Hole'' (editorial, Oct. 6):
The new Medicare drug benefit law is one of the most repugnant laws ever passed by Congress. By enacting it, the Republicans sold out to the powerful and wealthy pharmaceutical and insurance industries.
 If Congress had really wanted to provide lifesaving medications to older Americans, it would have done so through a cheaper and simple add-on to Medicare that would have paid all the drug costs, not just a small percentage. 
 The waste and inefficiency of the present program will cost the government and beneficiaries $800 billion more over the next decade than it would have cost had the program been an added benefit under Medicare. 
 The Congressional Budget Office has projected that the administrative costs, marketing and profits of the insurance industry will add billions more dollars to the cost of the current program than would be required if the program were purely governmental under Medicare.
 Moreover, if the government were allowed to negotiate the prices of drugs with pharmaceutical companies, as it now does for the Veterans Administration, it is estimated that it could save almost $560 billion over the next eight years.
 The drug benefit law does very little to benefit the elderly and everything to benefit the pharmaceutical and insurance industries. 

John E. LeMoult
Xenia, Ohio, Oct. 6, 2006

To the Editor:
 Medicare (in contrast to Medicaid) is intended to provide universal coverage to all age-eligible United States citizens, thus treating everyone the same way. 
 Given the mushrooming federal budget deficits, the money is not there to cover all prescription drug costs. Both ethically and practically, it makes sense to provide universal coverage up to a certain level of expenditure and catastrophic coverage for those with huge prescription drug costs.

Daniel E. Lee
Rock Island, Ill., Oct. 6, 2006

The writer is a professor of ethics at Augustana College.

To the Editor:
 You take a reflexive ''yes but'' shot at the Medicare Part D ''doughnut hole.'' Looking ahead, we'd all like to see it shrink and disappear. But perhaps the hole should be judged far less harshly.
 More than 85 percent of beneficiaries will never reach the hole. Of those who do, the crucial question is whether their 2006 out-of-pocket expenses are less than those in pre-Part D 2005. Recall also that eight million seniors who had no drug benefit whatever in 2005 do have Part D coverage this year.
 Most important, consider the one-third of beneficiaries who enter the hole and emerge to the relief of the 95 percent coverage of their remaining costs. These one million to two million vulnerable elderly citizens have been stricken with multiple chronic diseases or cancer, with their huge drug costs.

Marvin S. Wool, M.D.
Boston, Oct. 6, 2006

To the Editor:
 In referring to the gap in the Medicare prescription drug program that requires recipients to pay out of pocket for prescriptions above $2,250 until they pay a total of $3,600, you write, ''The hole makes little sense from a medical or insurance perspective.'' 
 This feature is important from an insurance perspective, as it encourages consumers to be prudent in using drugs, to choose generic drugs or to not take unnecessary drugs while they have coverage up to the $2,250, so they will not hit ''the hole.''
 Of course, we need to ensure that those in need receive the required medications. But we also need to reduce the waste in our health care system, and that cannot be done with unlimited free care that does not encourage thoughtful behavior by the individual.

Gerald Bass
Washington, Oct. 6, 2006

The writer is associate vice president for health economics, George Washington University Medical Center.

To the Editor:
 We are weary of waiting for our multiple medications to arrive from Canada, and sometimes from European and Middle Eastern sources.
 Why are American politicians so adamant against providing a universal health plan? There are many who are unable to afford the high prices of brand-name drugs in this country and feel that the only alternative is to order their medications from foreign countries that offer them at far less cost.
 The multiplicity of plans offered by Medicare and other supplementary insurance carriers has resulted in great confusion, and many citizens are unaware of their options.
 People should contact their legislators and make their health and prescription requirements known to them, and let them know that a single-payer system, subsidized by the government, would benefit everyone.

Leonore Brooks
Whitestone, Queens, Oct. 6, 2006


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Michael Sloan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (94%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DRUG PRICES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); VULNERABLE HEALTH POPULATIONS (78%); ETHICS (78%); INSURANCE (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); CHRONIC DISEASES (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); WRITERS (73%); CANCER (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); MEDICAID (58%); VETERANS (52%) Medicine and Health; Medicare; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%)

PERSON: John E LeMoult; Daniel E (Prof) Lee; Marvin S (Dr) Wool; Gerald Bass; Lenore Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCK ISLAND, IL, USA (53%) OHIO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2006



148 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1626 words

HEADLINE: IN HOUSE RACES, MORE G.O.P. SEATS ARE SEEN AT RISK

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Reporting was contributed by Dave Staba from Buffalo and Sarah Wheaton and Jeff Zeleny from Washington.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 6 

 BODY:
At least five more Republican Congressional seats are now in serious contention, analysts said Friday, an unwelcome development for Republicans as they begin to confront a political environment further darkened for them by the Congressional page scandal.
 The fury over sexually charged messages sent to male teenage pages by Representative Mark Foley of Florida is undercutting Republican support among elderly voters, suburbanites and women, analysts from both parties said.
More immediately -- and more alarmingly for Republican strategists who have looked to the party's powerful voter turnout operation to save the party this year -- there are signs that the furor is sapping the enthusiasm of a group essential to Republican victories in 2002 and 2004: religious conservatives.
 ''The social conservatives are frustrated with what's going on,'' said Saulius Anuzis, the chairman of the Republican Party in Michigan, where, he said, one-third of his volunteers are social conservatives. ''We have heard disappointment and disenchantment. The level of commitment isn't as fierce as it ought to be.'' 
 The political uproar is playing out in races across the country and comes with Republicans already struggling against the political weight of more bad news from Iraq. The page scandal has left leaders and candidates in both parties to come up with new strategies a month from Election Day. 
 Democrats placed advertisements linking embattled Republican incumbents to Mr. Foley, including spots in Ohio and Indiana that began broadcasting Friday. Democratic House and Senate candidates pressed Republican incumbents to say whether they thought Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois, who along with other senior members of the Republican leadership has come under fire as failing to act on early signals that Mr. Foley was sexually harassing teenagers, should stay in power. 
 In New Jersey, Thomas H. Kean Jr., the Republican Senate candidate, called on Mr. Hastert to step down.
 The Democratic response to President Bush's radio address on Saturday features a Democratic House candidate, Patty Wetterling of Minnesota, attacking House Republican leaders as ignoring warnings about Mr. Foley's behavior, according to excerpts released Friday. 
 ''Foley sent obvious predatory signals, received loud and clear by members of Congressional leadership, who swept them under the rug to protect their political power,'' says Ms. Wetterling, a Democrat whose 11-year-old son was kidnapped 17 years ago and has not been found. 
 Republicans and their allies, including conservative talk radio hosts, have responded by rallying around Mr. Hastert and blaming Democrats and the news media for the frenzy. 
 Talk radio hosts, working off a list of talking points distributed by Republican Party officials, recounted how two decades ago, House Democrats stood behind Representative Gerry E. Studds, Democrat of Massachusetts, after he engaged in sex with a male page.
 In upstate New York, Representative Thomas M. Reynolds, who is trailing his Democratic challenger according to two new polls, planned to go on television to defend himself after a labor union began broadcasting a 30-second radio advertisement questioning whether he had done all he could after hearing a complaint that Mr. Foley was harassing teenagers.
 ''Nobody's angrier and more disappointed than me that I didn't catch his lies,'' Mr. Reynolds said in advertisements scheduled to begin over the weekend. ''I trusted that others had investigated. Looking back, more should have been done, and for that I am sorry.''
 George Rasley, an aide to Representative Deborah Pryce, Republican of Ohio, who was linked to Mr. Foley in a Democratic advertisement that began running Friday, said the Foley investigation further soured an already tough environment for Republicans in Ohio, a state hammered by corruption investigations this year.
 ''This is one more thing that makes people wonder about politicians and politics,'' Mr. Rasley said. ''It reinforces this notion of Washington being a place that bears no resemblance to real America.''
 The page scandal is part of a run of difficult tidings for Republicans, including a stream of bad news out of Iraq, disclosure of an intelligence report that found that the invasion might have worsened the threat of terrorism and Mr. Bush's continued unpopularity. 
 In the White House, aides have watched with frustration as campaign appearances by Mr. Bush, in which he hammers Democrats on national security, receive little coverage, subsumed by the Foley case. 
 Ken Mehlman, chairman of the Republican National Committee, said he believed that Republicans turned a corner when Mr. Hastert accepted responsibility for the mishandling of the page scandal after days of being pressed to take action by restive Republicans. 
 ''I'm looking at every single bit of public and private data,'' Mr. Mehlman said. ''So far, I have seen a minimal effect of this particular situation, which is not to say that I don't take it seriously.''
 Democrats need to capture 15 House seats to take control of Congress; until the last week or two, about 40 Republican seats had been judged in play, of which 20 had been considered highly competitive. But analysts said at least five more Republican seats, and as many as eight, that had once been considered relative long shots for Democrats had now swung firmly into play. 
 At least two of those seats are directly related to the Foley scandal. One is held by Mr. Reynolds, who as chairman of the House Republican campaign committee had entered this election cycle as a prohibitive favorite for re-election. Republicans in Florida do not plan to spend any money to defend the seat once held by Mr. Foley, effectively conceding it to the Democratic challenger, Tim Mahoney, who, not taking any chances, is running advertisements in which he pledges to return ''moral values'' to Congress.
 In other races, the Foley case has created an unfavorable backdrop for Republicans. In Pennsylvania this week, Representative Don Sherwood, a suddenly endangered Republican, bought time on television to offer an apology in response to allegations that he had abused his mistress. Analysts for both parties said the sweep of outrage over Congressional misbehavior had weakened Mr. Sherwood and forced him to deal directly with the issue.
 Beyond that, analysts said the page scandal had raised new concerns about ethics in Congress, an unwanted focus for Republicans in races where Democrats have sought to make an issue of what they have called a Republican culture of corruption.
 Those include re-election races by Representatives Richard W. Pombo and John T. Doolittle, both of California, who have been touched by the fallout from the Jack Abramoff lobbying scandal, as well as the contests to fill two seats vacated by Republicans who have quit the race, Tom DeLay of Texas and Bob Ney of Ohio. 
 ''I would think the Ney seat is more of a problem because of another round of ethics problems,'' said Stu Rothenberg, an independent analyst who studies Congressional races. 
 Amy Walter, an analyst who follows Congressional races for The Cook Political Report, said the Foley inquiry was having an indirect effect on races in which corruption might be an issue. ''When the spotlight is where the spotlight sits right now,'' Ms. Walter said, ''on scandal and dysfunction in Congress, then people like Pombo and Doolittle suffer.''
 Mr. Pombo has also been the target of advertisements by the Sierra Club and the League of Women Voters criticizing his record on environmental issues.
 Other races that have become increasingly competitive are the one to replace Representative Katherine Harris, a Florida Republican running for the Senate, and the challenge to Representative E. Clay Shaw Jr., also a Florida Republican. Party officials said polls showed the two races were tight.
 Officials in both parties said it was not the Foley scandal alone as much as the accumulated weight of problems for Republicans these past two weeks that was giving them concern. 
 ''We're working to redirect the debate back to national security and lower taxes,'' said Brian Jones, the communications director for the Republican National Committee. ''But this week that's proved to be a difficult task.''
 Republican pollsters said their first concern was that the page scandal could discourage Republican voters from turning out. 
 ''We're not seeing it affecting voter behavior; we are seeing it affect voter intensity,'' said Glenn Bolger, a Republican pollster. ''It's more of a deflation effect among Republicans than it is a motivator for Democrats. Does that change in the next 34 days? That's part of our job.''
 Meanwhile, Democrats were pushing hard to make sure the Republicans' troubles stayed in the public consciousness. On Saturday, Democrats plan to run an advertisement against Mike Whalen, a Republican running for an open House seat in Iowa, picturing him alongside Mr. Hastert.
 Democratic advertisements are linking Mr. Foley to both Ms. Pryce of Ohio and Representative Mike Sodrel of Indiana. Ms. Pryce once described Mr. Foley as a friend, one advertisement says, while Mr. Sodrel is criticized as taking a campaign contribution ''from the House leadership, who knew about it but did nothing to stop sexual predator Congressman Foley.'' 
 A fund-raiser for Mr. Sodrel headlined by Mr. Hastert was postponed this week. Mr. Sodrel's campaign manager, Cam Savage, said that was only because of a scheduling conflict. 
 Mr. Savage described the Foley scandal as an issue in Mr. Sodrel's district, but not an overwhelming one. ''It's not the No. 1 priority on people's minds,'' he said, ''but it does have some resonance to it.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 17, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Oct. 7 about Republican House seats at risk in the midterm elections misidentified an organization that has run advertisements criticizing the environmental record of Representative Richard W. Pombo, a California Republican seeking re-election. It is the League of Conservation Voters -- not the League of Women Voters, which does not support or oppose candidates for office at any level of government.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tim Mahoney, left, is the Democrat running for former Representative Mark Foley's seat in Florida. Republicans chose Joe Negron to take Mr. Foley's place, but he faces an uphill battle. (Photographs by Joe Raedle/Getty Images)(pg. A13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (86%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ETHICS (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (77%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (60%) Pages, Congressional; Ethics; Sexual Harassment; Electronic Mail; Election Issues; Aged; Women; Elections

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: TIM MAHONEY (58%); THOMAS M REYNOLDS (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%) Adam Nagourney; Mark (Rep) Foley

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2006



149 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: We Can't Go Home Again

BYLINE: By Sam Bahour. 
Sam Bahour is a co-editor of ''Homeland: Oral Histories of Palestine and Palestinians.''

DATELINE: Ramallah, West Bank 

 BODY:
THIRTEEN years ago, I left a comfortable life in the United States for an uncertain future in the West Bank. Israel and the Palestinian Liberation Organization had just signed the Oslo Accords. Like many others, I saw an opportunity for Palestinians to finally build a society and economy that would lead to freedom -- to a thriving Palestine alongside Israel. 
 As a Palestinian-American businessman, I was determined to do my part. So I moved to the West Bank city of El Bireh, where my family has lived for centuries. There I helped create a $100 million telecommunications company, which today employs more than 2,000 Palestinians. I earned an M.B.A. through Tel Aviv University. Then I developed a $10 million shopping center -- the first of its kind in the Palestinian territories, employing more than 220 Palestinians. I married and had two beautiful daughters. 
Now the Israeli authorities have decided that my life here has come to an end.
 Even after the Oslo Accords were signed and the Palestinian Authority established, Israel retained control of all borders and of the Palestinian Population Registry. Nothing or no one gets into or out of the West Bank and Gaza without Israeli permission. For a dozen years I have waited for Israel to approve my application for Palestinian residency. 
 American Jews, indeed Jews from anywhere in the world, can come to Israel and be granted automatic citizenship. Thousands of American Jews freely enter and exit Israel to live in illegal Israeli settlements in the middle of the West Bank. But Palestinians whose families have lived here continually for centuries do not enjoy the same right. I need a residency card from Israel to live with my Palestinian family in my grandfather's home in the Palestinian West Bank.
 For 13 years, I've lived here by renewing my tourist visa every three months. Last month, an Israeli soldier stamped my American passport with a one-month visa and wrote ''last permit'' on it in Arabic, Hebrew and English. Now I am faced with a terrible choice. I can leave, uprooting my family and abandoning the businesses I've worked hard to build. I can leave alone and be separated from my wife and daughters. Or I can remain here ''illegally,'' risking deportation at any time.
 My situation is not unique. Thousands of Palestinians are in a similar limbo. Most have less desirable options than mine. My children are American citizens. We can return to the United States. But I came here with a vision, and I remain determined to play a role in developing an economy, nonviolently ending Israel's military occupation and building a Palestinian state.
 Israeli policies effectively discourage people like me. According to the Israeli human rights group B'Tselem, it has been official Israeli policy since 1983 to ''reduce, as much as possible, the approval of requests for family unification'' of Palestinians. B'Tselem reports that in the last six years alone, more than 70,000 people have applied for permission to immigrate to the West Bank and Gaza to join family. Their applications have either been denied or, like mine, languish. 
 Each Palestinian who leaves lessens what Israelis openly call the ''demographic threat'' of a growing Palestinian population. But Israel needs to understand that the real threat comes not from demographics. It comes from controlling an entire population, breaking families apart and placing obstacles in the path of economic development. 
 Israelis and Palestinians are destined to be neighbors. One neighbor cannot ensure its security by condemning the other to hardship and despair. Many people like me -- business owners, educators, artists and others -- whom Israel is denying entry came to build bridges, not walls. We came to invest in a better life to follow this occupation -- a bright, joint future for Palestinian and Israeli children alike.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 16, 2006

 CORRECTION:
In an Op-Ed article on Oct. 7 about visas for Palestinians: The Palestine Liberation Organization signed the Oslo accords, not the Palestinian Liberation Organization.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); APPROVALS (88%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (87%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (78%); FAMILY (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CITIZENSHIP (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); CHILDREN (69%); BORDER CONTROL (67%); ARAB AMERICANS (66%); DEPORTATION (65%); TRENDS (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%) Palestinian-Americans; Palestinians; Residence Requirements; Economic Conditions and Trends; Jews; Citizenship

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: Sam Bahour

GEOGRAPHIC: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); ISRAEL (96%) Israel; West Bank; Israel

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2006



150 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: Google Is Said To Set Sights On YouTube

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN and PETER EDMONSTON; Gary Rivlin and Saul Hansell contributed reporting.

 BODY:
YouTube, the popular video-sharing Web site that has yet to celebrate its first anniversary or its first profit, is quickly becoming the must-have prize for media and technology giants. 
 Google is in discussions to acquire YouTube for $1.6 billion, people involved in the talks said yesterday. While the talks are in the early stages, and may fall apart, the size of Google's offer may push YouTube closer to a deal. Other companies have also expressed interest and could swoop in with a higher offer.
 Microsoft, Yahoo, Viacom and the News Corporation, among others, have all visited YouTube's headquarters in San Mateo, Calif., in recent months to inquire about buying the company.
 The frenzied hunt to acquire the next hot Internet property -- MySpace last year and now YouTube -- has become reminiscent of the first Internet boom, as companies bid up prices of sites whose ability to generate profits is the subject of much debate. 
 A deal for YouTube would be the crowning moment for a property that emerged as a cultural phenomenon almost immediately after it officially began last December. Its site, which delivers more than 100 million video clips a day, allows users to share a broad array of offerings from news clips to home movies to spoofs -- sometimes funny but often simply crude -- created by ordinary users. 
 Almost single-handedly, YouTube has both popularized the sharing of videos and empowered would-be movie makers around the world. The site is also facing possible legal challenges over the unauthorized posting and sharing of videos. Yet a number of media companies would prefer to embrace YouTube as a partner, rather than treat it as a pariah, as was the case with Napster. 
 If YouTube agrees to a deal, it would be a sudden change of heart. Chad Hurley, a founder of the company, has said that he prefers to stay independent. ''We're not even thinking about being acquired or going public,'' he said in a meeting with New York Times editors and reporters last month.
 A spokesman for Google declined to comment. A spokeswoman for YouTube did not return calls for comment. 
 YouTube's meteoric rise has made it one of the most closely watched of the new generation of Internet companies created since the technology bust of 2000 and the fallow period that followed. The millions of people that visit YouTube each day make it a valuable property, though it has yet to turn a profit. 
 Rumors of YouTube's talks with Google first appeared yesterday on TechCrunch, a Web site about Internet start-ups. 
 The $1.6 billion price tag, while seemingly rich for so young a company, makes sense, research analysts said. 
 ''That's expensive but not unreasonable,'' said Charlene Li, an analyst with Forrester Research. Ms. Li estimated that the company has about 50 million users worldwide, which works out to a purchase price of about $32 a user.
 The deal would make sense from the perspective of both companies, Ms. Li and others said. 
 ''Google Video has not gotten any traction,'' Ms. Li said. 
 Despite Google's broad reach as an Internet search service and its well-known brand name, Google Video has only a 10 percent market share, according to Hitwise, which monitors Web traffic. YouTube has a 46 percent share, and MySpace has 23 percent.
 ''YouTube figured out what Google and Yahoo and Microsoft and all the others in the marketplace didn't,'' she said. ''It's not about the video. It's about creating a community around the video.''
 A link-up with Google might also carry benefits for YouTube as it tries to clear up its legal picture. Google and its lawyers are already addressing similar questions involving copyrighted works on the Internet and working on technology to deal with them.
 ''Who is in a better position to develop that technology,'' Ms. Li wrote in a blog entry posted yesterday. ''Sixty burnt-out people at YouTube or the legendary technical minds at Google?''
 Mr. Hurley and Steve Chen started YouTube after the two struggled to share videos of a dinner party in January 2005. In a sense, YouTube is the classic Silicon Valley start-up. The pair, working out of a garage and still in their 20's, went on to secure $3.5 million in venture capital from Sequoia Capital, one of the two venture firms that invested in Google when it was a small, relatively anonymous company. 
 The recent takeover frenzy is being fueled in part by the News Corporation's acquisition of MySpace, a social networking site immensely popular among teenagers. The company, controlled by Rupert Murdoch, bought MySpace last year for $580 million in cash, and it is now worth as much as $2 billion by some analysts' estimates. 
 Sumner M. Redstone, the chairman of Viacom, recently called losing MySpace to Mr. Murdoch ''humiliating.'' He also said that one reason he fired Tom Freston as Viacom's chief executive last month was because he failed to secure that deal and did not move fast enough to push Viacom's Internet activities.
 Yahoo, meanwhile, is in negotiations to buy Facebook, a social networking site originally aimed at college students, for more than $1 billion, according to people involved in those talks.
 But while media moguls are fascinated by YouTube, they also harbor deep concerns.
 The site's mix of videos includes many clips from television shows and movies, often posted without a thought to who might own the copyright. As a result, there are widespread concerns that YouTube may eventually draw a hailstorm of lawsuits -- especially if the company becomes part of a deep-pocketed acquirer.
 Doug Morris, the chief executive of the Universal Music Group, recently called YouTube and MySpace ''copyright infringers'' and said that the sites ''owe us tens of millions of dollars.''
 Mark Cuban, who founded Broadcast.com, an early Internet video site that was bought by Yahoo, has suggested that YouTube is essentially a business based on piracy.
 Some in the industry have even compared YouTube to Napster, which, before it adopted its current subscription-based model, was a hugely popular free music-swapping service. Lawsuits from the recording industry forced the original Napster to shut down, and it eventually filed for bankruptcy protection.
 YouTube says it is different from Napster because it removes content when a copyright holder informs the company of a violation. It points to the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, which in general does not require Internet companies to screen material in advance.
 Despite these legal uncertainties, YouTube holds obvious appeal for any potential acquirer. Buying YouTube would instantly vault Google to the lead in the business of online video, which is drawing increased interest from advertisers. Its own fledgling offering, Google Video, remains a relatively small player.
 At $1.6 billion, YouTube would be Google's most expensive acquisition. In fact, it would cost nearly as much as Google's total acquisitions budget since 2001, according to a recent estimate from Citigroup. Google's largest investment to date was its $1 billion equity investment in Time Warner's AOL subsidiary, which was part of a multiyear advertising deal.
 Google had cash and marketable securities of about $9.8 billion as of June 30, and its market capitalization stands at about $129 billion.


GRAPHIC: Photo: YouTube's Web site delivers 100 million video clips a day, allowing the sharing of a variety of offerings from news clips to home movies. (pg. C9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); DIVESTITURES (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); STARTUPS (67%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (65%) Computers and the Internet; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Recordings and Downloads (Video); Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (94%); NEWS CORP (71%); VIACOM INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Google Inc; Youtube; Microsoft Corp; Yahoo Inc; Viacom Inc; News Corp

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (94%); NWS (NASDAQ) (71%); NWS (ASX) (71%); VIA (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); FORR (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (71%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (71%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (71%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%)

PERSON: Andrew Ross Sorkin; Peter Edmonston; Chad Hurley

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2006



151 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Job Growth Was Slack Last Month

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER; Jeremy Peters contributed reporting.

 BODY:
For American workers, the job market is starting to look a lot less inviting.
 The Labor Department reported yesterday that employment grew by just 51,000 jobs in September, adding slack job growth to the emerging tableau of an economy gradually slowed by higher interest rates, expensive energy and a sputtering housing sector.
In the last three years, the American economy has added about six million jobs. Unemployment, which dipped to 4.6 percent last month, has fallen to the lowest point since early 2001. And in recent months, the wages of ordinary workers have finally started to increase enough to slightly outpace inflation. 
 But the new government data, said Joseph LaVorgna, chief United States economist at Deutsche Bank, suggests that ''the best news on job creation is behind us.''
 The payroll growth recorded in September -- culled from a survey of some 300,000 businesses that is seasonally adjusted in an effort to factor out normal variations -- was the weakest since October of last year. And even though job growth for the previous two months was revised up significantly, it now appears that payroll growth has decelerated sharply. 
 From March 2005 through March 2006, according to new information from the Labor Department, job growth averaged 236,000 a month. For the last three months, it has averaged just 121,000.
 Analysts said the downshift puts the Federal Reserve and its chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, in a good position to keep interest rates steady. 
 ''The slowdown the Fed wants to engineer is clearly in the data,'' said Robert J. Barbera, chief economist of ITG Hoenig. ''This is just what the doctor ordered if the doctor is Ben Bernanke.''
 Still, the job market may not be quite as weak as the monthly number suggested. Not only did unemployment -- based on a separate survey of households that showed more robust employment gains -- fall slightly to 4.6 percent from 4.7 percent in August, but paychecks also recorded some of their biggest gains so far this year.
 Hourly wages for regular workers, excluding managers, rose 4 percent in September compared with a year earlier. This was the same as in August but higher than any other month since June 2001 --when workers were still benefiting from inertial wage gains coming out of the Internet-fueled economy of the late 1990's.
 The mixed signals left financial markets divided, with the bond market falling while stocks mostly treaded water. 
 Contributing to the confusion was an unusually large annual revision of payrolls, with the Labor Department now saying that it had undercounted employment growth by 810,000 jobs from March 2005 to March 2006. 
 In surveying employers in September, though, the government found that most were being much more cautious than earlier in the year.
 Health care providers added 24,000 jobs. Hotels and restaurants increased employment by 19,000. Manufacturers cut 19,000 jobs in September; retailers shed 12,000.
 And while construction companies unexpectedly added 8,000 jobs, experts do not think they will be hiring much in the future, and many may soon be shedding workers.
 ''It's going to be a teeter-totter,'' said Kenneth Simonson, chief economist of the Associated General Contractors of America. ''I would expect construction growth over the next 12 months to be minimal, perhaps less than 1 percent.''
 Over all, the index of total hours worked in the private sector, the broadest measure of demand for labor, declined from 105.1 to 105.0 in September. But some economists, looking at other evidence like healthy consumer spending and the recent decline in gasoline prices, predicted that the current slowdown in employment will not last.
 ''If you were a lawyer, you would have no problem prosecuting this for reasonable doubt,'' said John Ryding, chief United States economist at Bear Stearns. ''I would prosecute that any day.''
 He added that he expected the tight job market to put further pressure on the Fed to raise interest rates again soon.
 President Bush pointed to the decline in unemployment as evidence that his economic policies are working, urging Congress to extend his tax cuts beyond their planned expiration at the end of the decade.
 ''Today we got more good news,'' President Bush said in a speech at a Federal Express operation in Washington. ''I'm pleased with the economic progress we're making.''
 Still, most economists see a slowing economy taking its toll on hiring, with many now predicting that the Fed's next interest rate movement will be down, as it moves next year to try to revive growth.
 ''The Fed now has less justification to raise interest rates in the future,'' said Anthony Chan, chief economist at J. P. Morgan Private Client Services. 
 Mr. Bernanke, in a speech in New York on Wednesday, said that he also foresaw slower growth. He predicted that the falloff in the housing market would shave output in the second half of the year by about one percentage point. 
 By and large, economists are not uncomfortable with the gradual deceleration of economic growth recorded to far. ''The trend doesn't appear to be that alarming at all,'' Mr. Chan said. 
 But the changing condition of the labor market may not be so benign for workers. ''The data is consistent with stable to modestly rising unemployment,'' Mr. Barbera said. ''Roughly 4.5 percent unemployment is as tight as it's going to get. I see no obvious additional increases in workers' bargaining power.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: At a career center in Brooklyn, job seekers checked computerized listings on Thursday. Unemployment slipped to 4.6 percent in September. (Photo by Stephen Hilger/Bloomberg News)(pg. C4)Chart: ''The Labor Picture in September''Unemployment rate4.6 percentBY DEMOGRAPHICSWhiteSEPT. : 4.0%1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.11-YEAR CHANGE: -0.5BlackSEPT.: 9.21-MONTH CHANGE: +0.41-YEAR CHANGE: -0.3Hispanic*SEPT.: 5.41-MONTH CHANGE: +0.11-YEAR CHANGE: -1.1AsianSEPT. : 2.8+1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.11-YEAR CHANGE: -1.3Teenagers (16-19)SEPT. : 16.41-MONTH CHANGE: +0.21-YEAR CHANGE: +0.6DURATION OF UNEMPLOYMENTIn weeksAverageSEPT.: 17.41-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.1-YEAR CHANGE: -4.4%MedianSEPT.: 8.21-MONTH CHANGE: -3.5%1-YEAR CHANGE: -3.5EmploymentNonfarm payroll, 12-month changeRank-and-file workersAVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGSSEPT.: $569.201-MONTH CHANGE: +0.31-YEAR CHANGE: +3.7%BY TYPE OF WORKIn millionsNonfarmSEPT.: 135.61-MONTH CHANGE: +0.1%1-YEAR CHANGE: +1.3%GoodsSEPT.: 22.41-MONTH CHANGE: -0.11-YEAR CHANGE: +1.4ServicesSEPT.: 113.11-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.1-YEAR CHANGE: +1.3AgricultureSEPT.: 21.41-MONTH CHANGE: -2.81-YEAR CHANGE: Unch.SHARE OF POPULATIONEmployedSEPT.: 63.1%1-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.1-YEAR CHANGE: +0.3Labor force (workers and unemployed)SEPT.: 66.2%1-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.1-YEAR CHANGE: Unch.'HIDDEN' UNEMPLOYMENTIn millionsWorking part time, but want full-time workSEPT.: 4.01-MONTH CHANGE: -3.5%1-YEAR CHANGE: -11.1%People who currently want a job++SEPT.: 4.4+1-MONTH CHANGE: -14.21-YEAR CHANGE: -6.4UNEMPLOYED BY EDUCATION LEVELLess than high schoolSEPT.: 6.4%1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.51-YEAR CHANGE: -1.8High schoolSEPT.: 4.21-MONTH CHANGE: -0.31-YEAR CHANGE: -0.8Some collegeSEPT.: 3.61-MONTH CHANGE: -0.11-YEAR CHANGE: Unch.Bachelor's or higherSEPT.: 2.01-MONTH CHANGE: +0.21-YEAR CHANGE: -0.3Note: figures are seasonally adjusted, except where noted.*Hispanics can be of any race.+Not seasonally adjusted.++People not working who say they would like to. Includes discouraged workers or those who cannot work for reasons including ill health.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (95%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (93%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); BONDS (72%); HEALTH CARE (63%); RESTAURANTS (60%); RETAILERS (59%) Labor; Labor; Unemployment; Hiring and Promotion; Working Hours; Medicine and Health; Hotels and Motels; Restaurants; Retail Stores and Trade; Building (Construction)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) Labor Department (US)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%) Eduardo Porter; Jeremy Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2006



152 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: Raises of 2% and 4.4% Are Approved for Agency Managers

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg approved raises yesterday for thousands of managers at city agencies, increasing salaries by 2 percent retroactively from August, then by an additional 4.4 percent in February. 
 The raises, outlined in a memorandum sent to personnel directors across the city, will go to about 8,600 nonunion city employees, including senior members of the mayor's staff.
For top-tier commissioners who head the Fire Department, Police Department and other large agencies, the increases mean a jump in pay to $189,700 in February from $178,156 now. 
 Aides to the mayor said the increases track with wage increases negotiated by District Council 37, the city's largest municipal union.
 In August, after failed attempts by Mayor Bloomberg to win major concessions, the union approved a new contract with the city that called for raises of about 10 percent over 32 months. 
 Pay increases for managers have typically arrived soon afterward, on a similar scale. They received their last raise in November. 
 The mayor's office did not divulge the total cost of the new salaries. But fiscal monitoring groups said the raises did not appear to be out of line, since inflation is running at roughly 4 percent a year.
 And wages for city employees -- while near the top nationwide -- are not wildly out of sync with the local labor market, or what other large cities pay senior managers, said Dick Dadey, executive director of Citizens Union, a government watchdog group. 
 ''Given the complexity of managing a city as challenging and as large as the city of New York, we need to ensure that our public work force -- union members and senior management -- are well compensated,'' Mr. Dadey said. 
 Gene Russianoff, a senior lawyer with New York Public Interest Research Group, said ''the salaries are pretty moderate.''
 ''The city has difficulties attracting qualified people,'' he said. ''I don't see this as out of line.'' 
 Mr. Russianoff did, however, question the timing. ''It's not good government to make an announcement at 4:45 on a Friday,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); MAYORS (90%); POLICE FORCES (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); APPROVALS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%) Wages and Salaries

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) Damien Cave; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2006



153 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 374 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

On Mars, a Crater's Edge
NASA's Opportunity Mars rover spent 22 months moving almost six miles to Victoria Crater, which is hundreds of feet deep. There it took a photograph of a 20-foot cliff called Cape Verde, enhanced here with color by NASA. PAGE A11

Spitzer Vows to Push for Gay Marriage in New York
Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, who is running for governor, said he would push to legalize gay marriage, a stance that most prominent Democrats, including Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, have shied away from. PAGE B1

Senator Creates Stir on Iraq
The White House, caught off guard by a leading Republican senator who said the situation in Iraq was ''drifting sideways,'' responded cautiously, with a spokeswoman for President Bush stopping short of saying outright that Mr. Bush disagreed with the assessment. PAGE A6 

Slow Job Growth Last Month
The Labor Department said employment grew by just 51,000 jobs in September, adding to a picture of an economy slowed by higher interest rates and expensive energy. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

U.S. Cites Deal to Punish Iran
The United States said it had won an agreement with the other four permanent members of the United Nations Security Council and Germany to penalize Iran for refusing to end its nuclear program. PAGE A6

Masterworks Rediscovered
Cimabue's ''Flagellation of Christ,'' from about 1280, is included in a new show at the Frick Collection in New York. THE ARTS, PAGE B11

Negro League Star Is Dead
Buck O'Neil, a star first baseman and manager in the Negro leagues and a pioneering scout and coach in the major leagues, was 94. PAGE C10

Yanks Fall and A's Advance
The Detroit Tigers defeated the Yankees to take a 2-1 lead in their division series, and the Oakland A's completed a three-game sweep of the Minnesota Twins. SPORTSSATURDAY

THIS WEEKEND

T: Design
The New York Times Style Magazine looks at how the creative half lives, from an architect's house in Seattle to the art-filled apartment of two design dealers in Paris, and spotlights five divas of Italian design.

Driving Elephants Crazy
The behavior of elephants in the wild has grown strange and violent in recent years, with attacks on people and other animals. Some researchers say mankind's encroachment is to blame. MAGAZINE

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by NASA)
 (Photo by The Frick Collection)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); BASEBALL (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); GOVERNORS (71%); ATHLETES (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); MARRIAGE (71%); MARRIAGE LAW (71%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); WILDLIFE (67%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (56%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); MAMMALS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); ELIOT SPITZER (71%); GEORGE W BUSH (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MARS (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAQ (92%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2006



154 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: 'We Will Not Recognize Israel,' Palestinian Premier Affirms

BYLINE: By GREG MYRE; Taghreed El-Khodary contributed reporting from Gaza.

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Oct. 6 

 BODY:
In a defiant speech delivered to a teeming crowd of Hamas supporters, the Palestinian prime minister, Ismail Haniya, insisted on Friday that his Hamas movement would not recognize Israel despite the cutoff in Western aid that has strangled his government.
 ''I tell you with all honesty, we will not recognize Israel, we will not recognize Israel, we will not recognize Israel,'' Mr. Haniya said to thunderous applause from tens of thousands of supporters, many waving green Hamas flags, at the Yarmouk soccer stadium in Gaza City. 
Mr. Haniya's remarks appeared to be aimed at the Palestinian Authority president, Mahmoud Abbas, and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, who met Wednesday in the West Bank. At that time, Mr. Abbas declared that talks between his secular Fatah movement and Hamas on a Palestinian unity government had broken down, and that the political stalemate could not go on indefinitely. 
 Mr. Abbas says there is a need for a new Palestinian government that will recognize Israel and deal with it. He also indicated that he was prepared to invoke his presidential powers and dismiss the current government, which is dominated by Hamas, the radical Islamic movement.
 Less than a month ago, on Sept. 11, Mr. Abbas and Mr. Haniya agreed in principle to form a unity government in an effort to find a way out of the worsening political and economic crisis facing the Palestinians. The goal was to bring Fatah and other political factions into the government. And the hope was that this would persuade Israel, the United States and the European Union to resume the flow of money that had been cut off when Hamas assumed power. 
 Without that aid the Palestinian Authority has been unable to pay salaries, provide services or govern in any meaningful way.
 But the blunt public remarks by Mr. Abbas on Wednesday and Mr. Haniya on Friday reflected what seems to be an increasingly bitter power struggle that could dim the prospects for a compromise. 
 Still, Mr. Haniya called on Mr. Abbas, who works in the West Bank city of Ramallah, to return to Gaza to resume talks on a broad-based government. ''Come down to Gaza to protect our people and declare our commitment to a national unity government,'' Mr. Haniya said. 
 But Mr. Abbas has given no indication that he plans to accept the invitation any time soon. Mr. Haniya and other senior Hamas officials are based in Gaza, and Israel does not permit them to travel to the West Bank. 
 During the lengthy speech on a sweltering afternoon, Mr. Haniya appeared on the verge of collapse at one point and could not continue his remarks. Bodyguards rushed to physically support him and whisked him off the stage. During the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, Mr. Haniya, like many Muslims, observes a dawn-to-dusk fast, which apparently caused his weakness.
 He re-emerged about 10 minutes later and continued. ''Our bodies may get tired, but our souls will not,'' Mr. Haniya said as the crowd roared.
 The United States and the European Union are demanding that the Palestinian government recognize Israel, renounce violence and accept previous Israeli-Palestinian accords.
 In negotiations, Fatah and Hamas have sought a formula under which a new government would accept such positions, though Hamas as a political party would not be forced to endorse them. But Hamas has repeatedly rejected the Western demands, and Fatah leaders say they see no rationale for joining a unity government that will continue to be ostracized by the Western countries and much of the international community.
 Israel, which is withholding more than $50 million a month in taxes and customs duties it collects for the Palestinians, refuses to deal with the Hamas government. Prime Minister Ehud Olmert says he is willing to meet with Mr. Abbas, but stresses that there is no prospect for progress until the Palestinians release an Israeli soldier seized by Palestinian militants and taken to Gaza on June 25.
 Mr. Haniya, meanwhile, said that the Palestinians faced an ''unethical and unjust siege led by the United States administration,'' and that ''many parties, internal and external, colluded in an attempt to force us to surrender.'' He noted that even Arab governments had not invited him to visit, aside from Qatar.
 The Fatah-Hamas friction boiled over into street fighting in Gaza on Sunday and Monday, leaving 10 Palestinians dead and more than 100 wounded in some of the worst internal fighting in recent years. The violence has subsided, but the tension remains.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Palestinian prime minister, Ismail Haniya, nearly collapsed during his speech on Friday, apparently because he was fasting for Ramadan. (Photo by Abid Katib/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (88%); RAMADAN (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); POLITICS (78%); AL FATAH (78%); SOCCER (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%) Palestinians; Foreign Aid; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) Hamas; European Union

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (79%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (72%) Greg Myre; Ismail Haniya

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (68%) Israel; Gaza

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2006



155 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Book Review Desk; ARCHIVE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 3502 words

HEADLINE: Book Review Podcast

 BODY:
Each week, Sam Tanenhaus, the editor of the Book Review, talks to authors, editors and critics about new books, the literary scene and current best sellers. The program is available as a podcast on NYTimes.com and iTunes, and is broadcast as ''Inside The New York Times Book Review'' on Fridays at 6:05pm in New York on WQXR 96.3 FM. The downloadable audio files are in mp3 format; instructions for subscribing to the podcast are below. 
 December 12, 2008 This week: Bob Harris, the Book Review's Deputy Editor, on the 10 Best Books of 2008; Motoko Rich with Notes From the Field; Lorraine Adams on ''The Jewel of Medina''; and Jennifer Schuessler with best-seller news. Sam Tanenhaus is the host. 
 December 5, 2008 This week: Caroline Weber on portraits from Vanity Fair magazine; Motoko Rich with Notes From the Field; Charles McGrath on newly-discovered verse by Bob Dylan; and bestseller news from Jennifer Schuessler. Sam Tanenhaus is the host. 
 November 28, 2008 This week: an extended conversation with Toni Morrison, Motoko Rich with Notes From the Field and best-seller news from Jennifer Schuessler. Sam Tanenhaus is the host. 
 November 21, 2008 This week: George Packer on the strange life of V. S. Naipaul; Motoko Rich reports on the National Book Awards; Charles Isherwood talks about Ziegfeld's Follies; and Jennifer Schuessler has best-seller news. Sam Tanenhaus is the host. 
 November 14, 2008 This week: Vanity Fair editor Graydon Carter on the life of George Plimpton; Motoko Rich with Notes from the Field; Roy Blount Jr. takes listeners through the alphabet; and Jennifer Schuessler has best-seller news. Sam Tanenhaus is the host. 
 November 7, 2008 This week: the novelist Jonathan Lethem on Roberto Bolano; Motoko Rich with Notes from the Field; Julie Just on children's books; and best-seller news from Jennifer Schuessler. Sam Tanenhaus is the host. 
 October 31, 2008 This week: An extended conversation with John Updike; Motoko Rich on the Google Books settlement; and best-seller news from Dwight Garner. Sam Tanenhaus is the host. 
 October 24, 2008 This week: Stacy Schiff on the career of Emily Post; Motoko Rich with Notes from the Field; Steven Heller reviews some new design books; and best-seller news from Dwight Garner. Sam Tanenhaus is the host. 
 October 17, 2008 This Week: Cartoonist Jules Feiffer recalls his Village Voice years; Motoko Rich calls in from the Frankfurt Book Fair; James McPherson discusses President Lincoln's war powers; and Dwight Garner has best-seller news. Sam Tanenhaus is the host. 
 October 10, 2008 This week: Matt Weiland and Sean Wilsey lead a tour of all 50 states; Motoko Rich with news on the book world; Bruce Handy on campaign biographies for kids; and Dwight Garner with best-seller news. Sam Tanenhaus is the host. 
 October 3, 2008 This week: Alex Kuczynski on Alec Baldwin's memoir of divorce; Charles McGrath on a Nobel Prize controversy; James Traub on Gen. David Petraeus; and Dwight Garner with best-seller news. Sam Tanenhaus is the host. 
 September 26, 2008 This week: Rachel Donadio on Michael Greenberg's memoir, ''Hurry Down Sunshine''; Charles McGrath on the 2008 MacArthur Fellows; John Leland on Mark Richardson's ''Zen and Now''; and Dwight Garner with best-seller news. Sam Tanenhaus is the host. 
 September 19, 2008 This week: Bernard-Henri Levy, author of ''Left in Dark Times''; A. O. Scott on David Foster Wallace; David Gates on Philip Roth. 
 September 12, 2008 This week: Dexter Filkins, author of ''The Forever War''; Mick Sussman on the oddities of online bookselling; Patricia Cohen on Maurice Sendak. 
 September 5, 2008 This week: Christopher Buckley, author of ''Supreme Courtship''; Wesley Yang on ''Guyland''; Motoko Rich on the children's author Rick Riordan. 
 August 29, 2008 This week: The Times columnist Maureen Dowd on the politics of Curtis Sittenfeld's new novel; Dave Itzkoff on Daniel J. Levitin's ''World in Six Songs.'' 
 August 22, 2008 This week: Brenda Wineapple, the author of a new book on Emily Dickinson; Paul Berman on Norman Mailer and the 1968 party conventions. 
 August 15, 2008 This week: Bill Keller, The Times's executive editor, on Nelson Mandela, race and rugby in South Africa; Stacey D'Erasmo on Linn Ullmann's novel ''A Blessed Child.'' 
 August 8, 2008 This week: This week: David Carr, author of ''The Night of the Gun''; Tom Vanderbilt, author of ''Traffic.'' 
 August 1, 2008 This week: Jane Mayer, author of ''The Dark Side''; Steven Heller, author of ''Iron Fists.'' 
 July 25, 2008 Jess Winfield, author of ''My Name Is Will''; Charles McGrath on Miranda Seymour's memoir. 
 July 18, 2008 Virginia Heffernan on self-help books; David Orr on Frances Richey's new poetry collection, ''The Warrior.'' 
 July 11, 2008 Rivka Galchen, author of ''Atmospheric Disturbances''; Stephanie Zacharek on a new biography of Jean-Luc Godard. 
 July 4, 2008 Julie Salamon, author of ''Hospital''; Kate Sekules on Michael Meyer's ''Last Days of Old Beijing.'' 
 June 27, 2008 Ross Douthat and Reihan Salam, the authors of ''Grand New Party''; Alessandra Stanley on Alan Furst's latest spy thriller. 
 June 20, 2008 Joe Nocera, the author of ''Good Guys and Bad Guys''; Marie Winn, the author of ''Central Park in the Dark.'' 
 June 13, 2008 The novelist Jackie Collins; Elizabeth Royte, the author of ''Bottlemania.'' 
 June 6, 2008 Kathryn Harrison, the author of ''While They Slept''; Augusten Burroughs, the author of ''A Wolf at the Table.'' 
 June 1, 2008 Jonathan Miles, author of ''Dear American Airlines''; Marisha Pessl on Bob Dylan's sketches and paintings. 
 May 25, 2008 Victor S. Navasky on William F. Buckley Jr.; Jennifer Balderama on the dancer Carlos Acosta. 
 May 18, 2008 Joseph O'Neill, the author of ''Netherland''; Christine Muhlke on gray-market luxury goods. 
 May 11, 2008 Fareed Zakaria, author of ''The Post-American World''; the children's book author Walter Dean Myers. 
 May 5, 2008 Roger Lowenstein on the coming pension crisis; Liesl Schillinger on ''Serve the People!'' by Yan Lianke; Rachel Donadio on Vladimir Nabokov. 
 April 27, 2008 The novelist Alexander McCall Smith; Katie Roiphe on Germaine Greer; Rachel Donadio on American graphomania. 
 April 20, 2008 George Packer on Michael Hastings's Baghdad memoir; Brenda Wineapple on Joyce Carol Oates. 
 April 13, 2008 Philip Bobbitt, author of ''Terror and Consent''; Jacques Steinberg on Clear Channel; Stephen Koch on Noel Coward's wartime espionage. 
 April 6, 2008 Fareed Zakaria on Benazir Bhutto; Pamela Paul, author of ''Parenting, Inc.''; Dave Itzkoff on Ceridwen Dovey's ''Blood Kin.'' 
 March 30, 2008 Evan Thomas on Max Hastings's World War II history, ''Retribution''; Mary Roach, author of ''Bonk''; Rachel Donadio on love and literary taste. 
 March 23, 2008 A conversation with Tom Wolfe; Nicholas D. Kristof on the dark side of population control; Alex Berenson, author of ''The Ghost War.'' 
 March 16, 2008 Richard Price, author of ''Lush Life''; the novelist Tessa Hadley; Keith Gessen on the college admissions rat race. 
 March 9, 2008 Antonio Skarmeta, author of ''The Dancer and the Thief''; Jennifer 8. Lee, author of ''The Fortune Cookie Chronicles''; Rachel Donadio on Martin Amis. Bob Harris is the host. 
 March 2, 2008 James Collins, author of ''Beginner's Greek''; the novelist Anne Enright; Stacey D'Erasmo on Roberto Bolano. 
 February 24, 2008 Robin Wright, author of ''Dreams and Shadows''; Jacob Weisberg, author of ''The Bush Tragedy'' and David Michaelis on Bill Mauldin. 
 February 17, 2008 Bill Keller on Nelson Mandela; Elizabeth Royte on ''The Last Flight of the Scarlet Macaw''; Rachel Donadio on Harold L. Humes. 
 February 10, 2008 The Book Review's Elsa Dixler and David Kelly discussing the special issue on politics; Susan Morrison, editor of ''Thirty Ways of Looking at Hillary''; David Greenberg on Jesse Helms and modern conservatism. 
 February 3, 2008 Charles Bock, author of ''Beautiful Children''; Katie Roiphe on David Rieff and Susan Sontag; Rachel Donadio on why it still takes so long to publish a book. 
 January 27, 2008 Drew Gilpin Faust, author of ''This Republic of Suffering''; Charles McGrath on Ezra Pound; Chris Suellentrop on Patrick J. Buchanan. 
 January 20, 2008 William Logan on Geoffrey Hill's poetry; Jacob Heilbrunn on neoconservatives; Rachel Donadio on Elie Wiesel. 
 January 13, 2008 Anthony Lewis, author of ''Freedom for the Thought That We Hate''; Charles Taylor on ''Sway,'' by Zachary Lazar; J. D. Biersdorfer on ''The Encyclopedia of Immaturity.'' 
 January 6, 2008 Barry Gewen introduces the Islam Issue; Irshad Manji on reforming Islam; Tom Reiss on ''Napoleon's Egypt.'' Dwight Garner is the host. 
 December 30, 2007 Joseph Weisberg, author of ''An Ordinary Spy''; Lee Siegel on Peter Gay's ''Modernism''; Jennifer Schuessler on ''The Hidden Persuaders.'' 
 December 23, 2007 Will Self, author of ''Psychogeography''; Liesl Schillinger on Yannick Murphy; David Kelly on Antony Flew and atheism. 
 December 16, 2007 Edward Hirsch on ''Sir Gawain and the Green Knight''; science fiction columnist Dave Itzkoff; Rachel Donadio on J.M. Coetzee. 
 December 9, 2007 Conversations with two authors from the Book Review's 10 Best Books of the Year list: Mildred Armstrong Kalish and Joshua Ferris; also, Graham Robb, author of ''The Discovery of France.'' 
 December 2, 2007 Conversations with Umberto Eco and Jim Shepard; the editors of the Book Review discuss the 10 Best Books of the Year. 
 November 25, 2007 Barry Day on Noel Coward; Brad Stone on Fake Steve Jobs; Rachel Donadio on the Naples Mafia. 
 November 18, 2007 Eric Lax on Woody Allen; Rich Cohen on the Mafia; Emily Bazelon on the imperial presidency. 
 November 11, 2007 Jed Perl on Picasso; Kathryn Harrison on Judith Thurman; Julie Just on the best illustrated children's books of the year. 
 November 4, 2007 Elizabeth D. Samet, author of ''Soldier's Heart''; Dan Barry, author of ''City Lights''; Caroline Weber on ''The Discovery of France''; Rex Reed on Bette Davis. 
 October 28, 2007 Alex Ross, the author of ''The Rest Is Noise''; Richard Pevear and Larissa Volokhonsky on translating Tolstoy; Stephanie Zacharek on Pattie Boyd. October 21, 2007 Tom Perrotta, the author of ''The Abstinence Teacher''; Bliss Boyard, the author of ''One Drop''; Lee Siegel on Alice Sebold. October 14, 2007 David Michaelis, the author of ''Schulz and Peanuts''; Kathryn Harrison on Mario Vargas Llosa; Julie Just on children's books. October 7, 2007 Maureen Dowd on Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr.; Brian C. Anderson, the author of ''Democratic Capitalism and Its Discontents''; Rachel Donadio on libel law. September 30, 2007 Francisco Goldman, the author of ''The Art of Political Murder''; A. O. Scott on Junot Diaz; Neil Genzlinger on ''How Starbucks Saved My Life.'' September 23, 2007 Jeffrey Toobin, the author of ''The Nine''; Leslie H. Gelb on ''The Israel Lobby''; Dale Peck on ''The Outsiders,'' by S. E. Hinton. September 16, 2007 Nell Freudenberger on David Leavitt; Mark Lilla, the author of ''The Stillborn God''; Rachel Donadio on the canon wars. September 9, 2007 Peter Beinart on Norman Podhoretz and Michael Ledeen; Steven Heller on graphic design; Dawn Drzal on Helen Slavin. September 2, 2007 Alan Weisman, the author of ''The World Without Us''; Matt Bai, the author of ''The Argument''; Pagan Kennedy on MySpace's literary communities. August 26, 2007 Mary Gordon, the author of ''Circling My Mother''; Dave Itzkoff on William Gibson; Caroline Weber on Dana Thomas. August 19, 2007 Clive James, the author of ''Cultural Amnesia''; Matthew Weiland on Jack Kerouac; and Margalit Fox, the author of ''Talking Hands.'' August 12, 2007 Julie Just on Harry Potter; Lucette Lagnado, the author of ''The Man in the White Sharkskin Suit''; Paul Greenberg on Hemingway as big-game fisherman. August 5, 2007 Dalia Sofer, the author of ''The Septembers of Shiraz''; Liesl Schillinger on Tessa Hadley; Stephen Metcalf on political conversions. July 29, 2007 Helen Epstein, the author of ''The Invisible Cure''; Jonathan Mahler on torture; the poetry columnist David Orr. July 22, 2007 Tim Weiner, the author of ''Legacy of Ashes''; Toure on tennis books; James Ryerson on Richard Rorty. July 15, 2007 Jennifer Senior on books about Hillary Rodham Clinton; David Margolick on ''1967,'' by Tom Segev; Julie Just on children's books. July 8, 2007 Stephen L. Carter, the author of ''New England White''; David Leonhardt on ''More Sex Is Safer Sex''; John Leland on ''Confessions of a Wall Street Shoeshine Boy.'' July 1, 2007 Elizabeth Gilbert on Mildred Armstrong Kalish; Martha Southgate on black writers; Liesl Schillinger on Min Jin Lee. June 24, 2007 Bill Geist, the author of ''Way Off the Road''; Katie Roiphe, the author of ''Uncommon Arrangements''; Dave Itzkoff on science fiction. June 17, 2007 Lee Siegel on Joyce Carol Oates; Pete Hamill on ''Taxi!''; Julie Just on children's books. June 10, 2007 Tina Brown, the author of ''The Diana Chronicles''; Marilyn Stasio on crime fiction; Rachel Donadio on technology and the novel. June 3, 2007 Ian McEwan, the author of ''On Chesil Beach''; Amanda Hesser on cookbooks; and Steven Heller on graphic design books. May 27, 2007 Frank Rich on Don DeLillo; Marco Pierre White, the author of ''The Devil in the Kitchen''; and Jonathan Rosen on Primo Levi. May 20, 2007 Brent Staples on Ralph Ellison; Debby Applegate on ''The Clarks of Cooperstown''; and Ihsan Taylor on ''7: The Mickey Mantle Novel''. May 13, 2007 Christopher Hitchens, the author of ''God Is Not Great''; Julie Just on children's books; and Tim Weiner on E. Howard Hunt. May 6, 2007 Robert R. Harris, the deputy editor of the Book Review, on ''The Joy of Drinking,'' David Shipley, the co-author of ''Send''; and Jon Savage, the author of ''Teenage.'' April 29, 2007 Meghan O'Rourke, the author of ''Halflife''; James Traub on George Kennan; and Steve Coates on ''The Day of the Barbarians.'' April 22, 2007 Darcey Steinke, the author of ''Easter Everywhere''; Jennifer Senior on Dorothy Schiff; Tobin Harshaw on ''The Last Mughal.'' April 15, 2007 Edith Grossman on translation; Joel Agee on Elfriede Jelinek; Dave Itzkoff on science fiction. April 8, 2007 Katie Roiphe on A. M. Homes; Alex Kuczynski on Paulina Porizkova; John Rockwell on Columbia Records. April 1, 2007 Caroline Weber on ''Nancy Cunard''; David Leonhardt on ''Radicals for Capitalism''; Jeremy McCarter on Thornton Wilder. March 25, 2007 Rachel Donadio on the book dealer Glenn Horowitz; Liesl Schillinger on Trezza Azzopardi; Christopher Benfey on ''Tales From the Torrid Zone.'' March 18, 2007 Joshua Ferris, the author of ''Then We Came to the End''; Scott Stossel on biographies; John Leland on Larry McMurtry. March 11, 2007 Kurt Andersen, the author of ''Heyday''; Brian Selznick, the author of ''The Invention of Hugo Cabret''; David Orr on poetry in The New Yorker. March 4, 2007 Lorraine Adams on Hisham Matar; A. O. Scott on Jane Smiley; Jacob Heilbrunn on President Bush's critics. February 25, 2007 Liesl Schillinger on Tom McCarthy; Peter Keepnews on George Gershwin; J. D. Biersdorfer on ''Buffy the Vampire Slayer.'' February 18, 2007 Mayra Montero, the author of ''Dancing to 'Almendra'''; Joan Acocella, the author of ''Twenty-Eight Artists and Two Saints''; Jim Holt on Michael Frayn. February 11, 2007 Stephen Metcalf on James Fenton; Jay Jennings on Pete Maravich; Ben Schoen on Harry Potter. February 4, 2007 Michael Thomas, the author of ''Man Gone Down''; David Orr on poetry; Sam Tanenhaus on Saul Bellow. January 28, 2007 Thomas Mallon on Thomas Hardy; Jim Harrison on Karl Shapiro; Dave Marsh on ''Something in the Air'' January 21, 2007 Lee Siegel on Norman Mailer; Alan Wolfe on Dinesh D'Souza; Liesl Schillinger on Roddy Doyle. January 14, 2007 Calvin Trillin, the author of ''About Alice''; Liesl Schillinger on Martin Amis; Neil Genzlinger on Tim Sandlin January 7, 2007 Robert Stone, the author of ''Prime Green''; Allan Sloan on P. J. O'Rourke; Dave Itzkoff on Michael Crichton. December 31, 2006 Vendela Vida, the author of ''Let the Northern Lights Erase Your Name''; Stacy Schiff on George III; Steven Coates on the Roman Empire; Rachel Donadio on Nadine Gordimer. December 24, 2006 Dave Eggers, the author of ''What Is the What''; Gary Hart on Barack Obama; Caroline Weber on the Marquise Du Chatelet; Dave Itzkoff on science fiction. December 17, 2006 Barry Gewen and Rachel Donadio on war books; Julie Just on children's books. December 10, 2006 James Traub, the author of ''The Best of Intentions''; Rachel Donadio on Helen Vendler. December 3, 2006 How the Notable Books list was chosen; Dave Itzkoff on music books; Neil Genzlinger on ''Presidential Doodles.'' November 26, 2006 Liesl Schillinger on Thomas Pynchon; Nicolai Ouroussoff on Frank Lloyd Wright; Dennis Overbye on Einstein. November 19, 2006 John Waters on Tennessee Williams; Steven Heller on Al Goldstein; Rachel Donadio on literary feuds. November 12, 2006 Maurice Sendak, the author of ''Mommy?''; Jim Windolf on Stephen King; Jonathan Mahler on Rudy Giuliani. November 5, 2006 David Margolick on David Mamet; Emily Nussbaum on Heidi Julavits; science fiction columnist Dave Itzkoff. October 29, 2006 A. O. Scott on Richard Ford; Amy Sedaris, the author of ''I Like You''; David Leonhardt on Jacob S. Hacker. October 22, 2006 Lemony Snicket, the author of ''The End''; Alex Kuczynski, the author of ''Beauty Junkies''; Jim Holt on Richard Dawkins. October 15, 2006 Caroline Weber, the author of ''Queen of Fashion''; John Leland on Adam Gopnik; Virginia Heffernan on National Lampoon. October 8, 2006 Ron Rosenbaum, the author of ''The Shakespeare Wars''; Tom Reiss on Fritz Stern. October 1, 2006 David Kamp, the author of ''The United States of Arugula''; James Barron, the author of ''Piano.'' September 24, 2006 Daniel Mendelsohn, the author of ''The Lost: A Search for Six of Six Million''; science fiction columnist Dave Itzkoff on ''Dune''; Rachel Donadio on the ''Dummies'' books. September 17, 2006 Frank Rich, the author of ''The Greatest Story Ever Sold''; Lawrence Levi on Nicole Kidman. September 10, 2006 Nicholas Lemann, the author of ''Redemption''; Stanley Crouch on the Black Panthers. September 3, 2006 David Friend, the author of ''Watching the World Change: The Stories Behind the Images of 9/11''; Stephen Metcalf on Thomas McGuane. August 27, 2006 Meghan O'Rourke on Claire Messud; Rachel Donadio on the mystery of the missing novel. August 20, 2006 Dave Itzkoff on James Tiptree, Jr.; Liesl Schillinger on Nora Ephron; Rachel Donadio on writers' colonies. August 13, 2006 Marisha Pessl, the author of ''Special Topics in Calamity Physics''; Julie Just on children's books. August 6, 2006 Joe Queenan on reading many books at once; Rachel Donadio on Silvio Berlusconi. July 30, 2006 Jennifer Egan, the author of ''The Keep''; Jennifer Schuessler on the maverick economist Deirdre McCloskey. July 23, 2006 William C. Rhoden, the author of ''$40 Million Slaves.''; David Margolick on ''Fear: Anti-Semitism in Poland After Auschwitz,'' by Jan T. Gross. July 16, 2006 Laura Secor on Shirin Ebadi; Barry Gewen on ''Uberpower: The Imperial Temptation of America,'' by Josef Joffe. July 9, 2006 David Kelly on Hurricane Katrina books; Dave Itzkoff on science fiction books. July 2, 2006 Robert Sullivan, the author of ''Cross Country''; Dwight Garner on Ishmael Reed. June 24, 2006 David Kelly on Timothy Leary; Barry Gewen on Noam Chomsky. June 17, 2006 David Kelly on Daniel Okrent; Robert R. Harris on John McPhee. June 10, 2006 Stephen Metcalf on Michel Houellebecq; Stephanie Zacharek on Bette Davis. June 3, 2006 Brent Staples on ''Rough Crossings,'' by Simon Schama; David Kelly on ''American Movie Critics.'' May 28, 2006 Bruce Handy on Anthony Bourdain; Amanda Hesser on cookbooks. May 21, 2006 A. O. Scott on the best American fiction of the last 25 years; Rachel Donadio on the book business. May 14, 2006 Robert R. Harris on ''Strange Piece of Paradise,'' by Terri Jentz; Julie Just on children's books. May7, 2006 David Kelly on Roberto Clemente; Henry Alford on selling books on a street corner. April 30, 2006 Gary Shteyngart, the author of ''Absurdistan''; Jennifer Schuessler on lost books. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Chronology

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (94%); PODCASTING (92%); LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); BESTSELLERS (89%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (74%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (68%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (52%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2008



156 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; SURFACING: EASTERN EUROPE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: English on Continental Shelves

BYLINE: By EVAN RAIL

 BODY:
VISITORS to the Massolit bookstore in Krakow are known to take their time, poring over the 20,000 English-language books or lingering over cups of American-style coffee. Sometimes they stay there all day. Occasionally, they stay until dawn. 
 ''It's so great to spend the night here,'' said Karen Underhill, an American who opened the bookstore and cafe in 2002 with her husband, David Miller. ''Sometimes people don't leave until 6 in the morning.'' 
Spending so much time in a bookstore might seem a slightly odd pastime, but it's becoming increasingly popular in Prague, Berlin and other cities of the former Eastern bloc -- at least among English-speaking expatriates and locals who are keen on their culture. In recent years, a long archipelago of English-language bookshops has popped up on the east side of the old Iron Curtain, functioning not just as a place to pick up the latest New Yorker magazine, but as a social hub for expatriate life.
 When it's not selling tracts by the economist Joseph Stiglitz, Massolit (Felicjanek 4; 48-12-432-4150; www.massolit.com) introduces Krakow residents to such exotic fare as carrot cake and bagels with cream cheese. In Prenzlauer Berg, a neighborhood in what had been East Berlin, Saint George's Bookshop (Worther Strasse 27; 49-30-81-798-333; www.saintgeorgesbookshop.com) often features art-house films (with English subtitles if needed) amid aisles of Dr. Seuss and ''Das Kapital'' (exclusively in English). In Bosnia and Herzegovina, Sarajevo's hot hangout is Buybook (Radiceva 4; 387-33-716-450; www.buybook.ba), where arty types flirt and pose as much as they leaf through bilingual copies of ''Leaves of Grass.''
 And in Budapest, Treehugger Dan's (Csengery 48; 36-1-322-0774; www.treehugger.hu) would not seem out of place in Berkeley, Calif., with its fair-trade coffee and progressive political readings. ''We're showing a movie on fair trade,'' said Daniel Swartz, an expatriate from Massachusetts who opened the store in March.
 For travelers, the bookstores are not just a place to refuel on reading material before the next train. It's also a spot to meet English-speaking locals -- offline. At Massolit one recent afternoon, four American tourists, three German writers, a handful of Polish students of English literature and a Canadian novelist who lives in Krakow were browsing and socializing. 
 ''I've never come here and not bought books,'' said Uljana Wolf, a poet from Berlin who had stopped by for coffee and a piece of cake.
 In fact, the books seem to have a long history of taking second place. In Prague, Shakespeare and Sons (Krymska 12; 420-271-740-839; www.shakes.cz) may offer plenty of Paul Auster's novels, but most people come to chat over beer and wine, often staying until midnight or later, especially at the store's poetry readings and freak-folk concerts.
 A different English-language bookstore, the Globe, had a similar atmosphere when the city was packed with an earlier group of American expatriates in the years after the Velvet Revolution, a reading-and-posing scene that was wickedly parodied by Gary Shteyngart in his novel ''The Russian Debutante's Handbook.'' 
 Roman Kratochvila, a Prague resident who opened the place with several friends in 2002, said the events were started to drum up foot traffic to sell more books but have since taken a life of their own. 
 ''I'm not really sure you can call them cultural events,'' he said. ''It was mostly just drinking.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Literary discussions can last into the night at Massolit in Krakow -- but not necessarily in Polish. It's among a stack of bookstores catering to readers of English that dot the map from Budapest to Berlin. (Photo by Evan Rail)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOKSTORES (91%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); WRITERS (89%); MULTILINGUALISM (78%); LITERATURE (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); COFFEE MARKETS (77%); FILM (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) GERMANY (93%); POLAND (90%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (90%); UNITED STATES (76%); CENTRAL EUROPE (71%); HUNGARY (52%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



157 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; VIDEO GAMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2371 words

HEADLINE: The Land of the Video Geek

BYLINE: By SETH SCHIESEL

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
AT first glance, the sprawling COEX mall here seems like any other urban shopping destination. On a late-summer Thursday, there were the bustling stores and lively restaurants, couples on dates and colleagues mingling after work.
 But then there were the screams.
Frantic, piercing, the shrieks echoed down the corridors from one corner of the vast underground complex. There hundreds of young people, mostly women and girls, waved signs and sang slogans as they swirled in the glare of klieg lights. It was the kind of fan frenzy that anywhere else would be reserved for rockers or movie legends.
 Or sports stars. In fact the objects of the throng's adoration were a dozen of the nation's most famous athletes, South Korea's Derek Jeters and Peyton Mannings. But their sport is something almost unimaginable in the United States. These were professional video gamers, idolized for their mastery of the science-fiction strategy game StarCraft. 
 With a panel of commentators at their side, protected from the throbbing crowd by a glass wall, players like Lim Yo-Hwan, Lee Yoon Yeol and Suh Ji Hoon lounged in logo-spangled track suits and oozed the laconic bravado of athletes the world over. 
 And they were not even competing. They were gathered for the bracket selection for a coming tournament season on MBC Game, one of the country's two full-time video game television networks. And while audiences watched eagerly at home, fans lucky enough to be there in person waved hand-lettered signs like ''Go for it, Kang Min'' and ''The winner will be Yo-Hwan 3/5oheart 4/5.'' 
 All in all it was a typical night in South Korea, a country of almost 50 million people and home to the world's most advanced video game culture: Where more than 20,000 public PC gaming rooms, or ''bangs,'' attract more than a million people a day. Where competitive gaming is one of the top televised sports. Where some parents actually encourage their children to play as a release from unrelenting academic pressure. Where the federal Ministry of Culture and Tourism has established a game development institute, and where not having heard of StarCraft is like not having heard of the Dallas Cowboys. The finals of top StarCraft tournaments are held in stadiums, with tens of thousands of fans in attendance. 
 Noh Yun Ji, a cheerful 25-year-old student in a denim skirt, had come to the COEX with 10 other members of one of the many Park Yong Wook fan clubs. ''I like his style,'' she said of Mr. Park, who plays the advanced alien species called Protoss in StarCraft. ''I watch basketball sometimes, but StarCraft is more fun. It's more thrilling, more exciting.''
 South Korea's roughly $5 billion annual game market comes to about $100 per resident, more than three times what Americans spend. As video games become more popular and sophisticated, Korea may provide a glimpse of where the rest of the world's popular culture is headed.
 ''Too often I hear people say 'South Korea' and 'emerging market' in the same sentence,'' said Rich Wickham, the global head of Microsoft's Windows games business. ''When it comes to gaming, Korea is the developed market, and it's the rest of the world that's playing catch-up. When you look at gaming around the world, Korea is the leader in many ways. It just occupies a different place in the culture there than anywhere else.''
 JUST after 1 one Friday night, Nam Hwa-Jung, 22, and Kim Myung-Ki, 25, were on a date in Seoul's hip Sinchon neighborhood. At a fourth-floor gaming room above a bar and beneath a restaurant specializing in beef, the couple sat side by side on a love seat by the soda machines, each tapping away at a personal computer. Ms. Nam was trying to master the rhythm of a dance game called Audition, while Mr. Kim was locked in a fierce battle in StarCraft.
 ''Of course we come to PC bangs, like everyone else,'' Mr. Kim said, barely looking up. ''Here we can play together and with friends. Why would I want to play alone at home?''
 A few yards away, amid a faint haze of cigarette smoke, five buddies raced in a driving game called Kart Rider while two young men nearby killed winged demons in the fantasy game Lineage. Another couple lounged in a love seat across the room, the young man playing World of Warcraft while his date tried her skills at online basketball.
 Ms. Nam glanced up from her screen. ''In Korea, going and playing games at the PC bang together is like going to a bar or going to the movies,'' she said. 
 South Korea is one of the most wired societies in the world. According to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, Korea had 25.4 broadband subscriptions per 100 residents at the end of last year. Only Iceland, with 26.7, ranked higher; the United States had only 16.8.
 Yet despite the near-ubiquity of broadband at home, Koreans still flock to PC bangs to get their game on. There is a saying in Seoul that most Koreans would rather skip a meal than eat by themselves. When it comes to games it seems that many Koreans would rather put down the mouse and keyboard than play alone.
 Woo Jong-Sik is president of the Korea Game Development and Promotion Institute. Speaking in his office far above Seoul, in the towering Technomart office and shopping complex, he explained the phenomenon simply: ''For us, playing with and against other people is much more interesting than just playing alone against a computer.''
 It started out that way in the United States too. But as game arcades with their big, clunky machines started disappearing in the 1980's, gamers retreated from the public arena and into their homes and offices. In the West gaming is now often considered antisocial.
 There are certainly concerns about gaming in South Korea. The government runs small treatment programs for gaming addicts, and there are reports every few years of young men keeling over and dying after playing for days on end. But on the whole, gaming is regarded as good, clean fun.
 In Seoul's dense Shinlim district, Huh Hyeong Chan, a 42-year-old math tutor, seemed to be the respected senior citizen at the Intercool PC bang, which covers two floors, smoking and nonsmoking.
 ''Among people in their 20's and 30's I think there is no one who hasn't been to a PC bang because it's become a main trend in our society,'' he said from his prime seat at the head of a row of computers. ''Most people think it's good for your mental health and it's a good way to get rid of stress. If you exercise your brain and your mind in addition to your body, that's healthy.''
 And cheap. At most PC bangs an ergonomic chair, powerful computer and fast Internet link cost no more than $1.50 an hour.
 Lee Chung Gi, owner of the Intercool bang, said: ''It's impossible for students in any country to study all the time, so they are looking for interesting things to do together. In America they have lots of fields and grass and outdoor space. They have lots of room to play soccer and baseball and other sports. We don't have that here. Here, there are very few places for young people to go and very little for them to do, so they found PC games, and it's their way to spend time together and relax.''
 TOP pro gamers in South Korea don't get much chance to relax. Just ask Lim Yo-Hwan. Mr. Lim, 27, is the nation's most famous gamer, which makes him one of the nation's most famous people. 
 ''Normally our wake-up hours are 10 a.m., but these days we can sleep in until around 11:30 or noon,'' he said at the SK Telecom StarCraft team's well-guarded training house in Seoul. ''After we wake up we have our breakfast, and then we play matches from 1 p.m. until 5. At 5 p.m. we have our lunch, and then at 5:30 for an hour and a half I go to my gym, where I work out. Then I come home and play until 1 a.m. After 1 I can play more matches or I can go to sleep if I want.''
 He smiled. ''But not many players sleep at 1.''
 Mr. Lim sat in what might be called the players' lounge: a spacious parlor of plush couches and flat-screen televisions. In an adjoining apartment, the focus was on work. More than a half-dozen other members of the team sat at rows of PC's demolishing one another at StarCraft, made by Blizzard Entertainment of Irvine, Calif. Outside, guards for the apartment complex kept an eye out for overzealous fans. 
 ''Without covering myself up in disguise it's really difficult to go out in public,'' Mr. Lim said. ''Because of the Internet penetration and with so many cameras around, I don't have privacy in my personal life. Anything I do will be on camera and will be spread throughout the Internet, and anything I say will be exaggerated and posted on many sites.''
 ''It's hard because I can't maintain my relationships with friends,'' he added. ''In terms of dating, the relationships just don't work out. So personally there are losses, but I don't regret it because it was my choice to become a pro gamer.''
 Hoon Ju, 33, the team's coach and a former graduate student in sports psychology, added: ''Actually when he goes out we know exactly where he is at all times. That's because the fans are constantly taking pictures with their cellphones and posting them to the Internet in real time.''
 Mr. Woo of the federal game institute estimated that 10 million South Koreans regularly follow eSports, as they are known here, and said that some fan clubs of top gamers have 700,000 members or more. ''These fan clubs are actually bigger in size than the fan clubs of actors and singers in Korea,'' he said. ''The total number of people who go spectate pro basketball, baseball and soccer put together is the same as the number of people who go watch pro game leagues.''
 The celebrity of South Korea's top gamers is carefully managed by game-TV pioneers like Hyong Jun Hwang, general manager of Ongamenet, one of the country's full-time game networks. ''We realized that one of the things that keeps people coming back to television are the characters, the recurring personalities that the viewer gets to know and identify with, or maybe they begin to dislike,'' he said. ''In other words, television needs stars. So we set out to make the top players into stars, promoting them and so on. And we also do a lot of education with the players, explaining that they have to try to look good, that they have to be ready for interviews.''
 For his part Mr. Lim cultivates a relatively low-key image. He knows that at 27 he is nearing the end of his window as an elite player. There are 11 pro teams in the country, he said, and they are full of young guns looking to take him down. But he said experience could make up for a few milliseconds of lost reflexes.
 ''The faster you think, the faster you can move,'' he said. ''And the faster you move, the more time you have to think. It does matter in that your finger movements can slow down as you age. But that's why I try harder and I work on the flexibility of my fingers more than other players.''
 Despite the stardom of pro gamers, in most Korean families it's all about school. That is a big reason the game market in South Korea is dominated by personal computers rather than by game consoles like Sony's PlayStation and Microsoft's Xbox that are so popular in the United States and Europe. (The deep historical animosity Koreans feel toward Japan, home of Sony and Nintendo, is another reason.)
 ''In Korea it's all study, study, study, learn, learn, learn,'' said Park Youngmok, Blizzard's Korean communications director. ''That's the whole culture here. And so you can't go buy a game console because all it is is an expensive toy; all it does is play games. But a PC is seen here as a dream machine, a learning machine. You can use it to study, do research. And if someone in the household ends up playing games on it'' -- he paused, shrugged and grinned -- ''that's life.''
 Cho Nam Hyun, a high school senior in a middle-class suburb south of Seoul, knows all about it. During his summer ''vacation'' he was in school from 8 a.m. until 8 p.m. (During the school year he doesn't finish classes until 10 p.m.) On his desk in his family's impeccable apartment sits a flip chart showing the number of days until his all-important university entrance exams. 
 But no matter how hard he studies, Mr. Cho tries to get in just a little gaming, and with his parents' encouragement. ''They are at school all the time, and then they have additional study classes,'' said his mother, Kim Eun Kyung, ''so games are the best way to get rid of their stress.''
 His father, Cho Duck Koo, a photographer, added: ''Certainly the games can be a distraction, and now that he is studying for the university exam he plays much less, but in general gaming helps the children with strategic thinking and to learn to multitask. We've told him if he goes to university we will get him the best PC possible.''
 IT'S all part of a dynamic that has taken technologies first developed in the West -- personal computers, the Internet, online games like StarCraft -- and melded them into a culture as different from the United States as Korean pajeon are from American pancakes.
 Sitting outside another packed soundstage at another cavernous mall, where around 1,000 eSports fans were screaming for their favorite StarCraft players over the Quiet Riot hard-rock anthem ''Cum On Feel the Noize,'' a pinstriped banker illustrated how South Korea has become the paragon of gaming culture.
 ''We're not just the sponsors of this league,'' Kim Byung Kyu, a senior manager at Shinhan Bank, one of the country's largest, said proudly. ''We're the hosts of this league. So we have a bank account called Star League Mania, and you can get V.I.P. seating at the league finals if you've opened an account.'' 
 ''When I'm in the U.S., I don't see games in public,'' he added. ''The U.S. doesn't have PC bangs. They don't have game television channels. What you see here with hundreds of people cheering is just a small part of what is going on with games in Korea. At this very moment hundreds of thousands of people are playing games at PC bangs. It's become a mainstream, public part of our culture, and I don't see that yet in the U.S. In this regard, perhaps the United States will follow and Korea will be the model.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Clockwise from top, fans at a gaming tournament in Seoul
Lim Yo-Hwan, a professional player, at his training camp
tournament competitors being introduced
Kim Dae Joong at a PC room in Seoul
pros squaring off in an event
Cho Nam Hyun honing his skills while his parents, Kim Eun Kyung and Cho Duck Koo, look on
 and an area of Seoul where PC rooms thrive. (Photographs by Seokyong Lee for The New York Times)(pg. 32)Drawing (Drawing by Asaf Hanuka)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER GAMES (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (88%); RESTAURANTS (78%); SPORTS FANS (75%); ATHLETES (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (70%); BASKETBALL (70%); CHILDREN (69%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (61%) Computer and Video Games

PERSON: Seth Schiesel

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (79%) South Korea 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



158 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 1320 words

HEADLINE: The American Way of Secrecy

BYLINE: By Francis Fukuyama. 
Francis Fukuyama is a professor of international political economy at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, and the author of ''America at the Crossroads: Democracy, Power, and the Neoconservative Legacy.''

 BODY:
A RECENT article in The Washington Post described how researchers at George Washington University's National Security Archive were surprised to find 1970's statistics on the size of the American nuclear arsenal blacked out in documents they had obtained. This was surprising because the figures had been published many times in the past; more detailed ones had in fact been given directly to the Soviets in various arms control talks. And yet bureaucrats in the Defense and Energy Departments, acting under new post-9/11 rules, deemed the airing of this historical information dangerous in a world of terrorists and rogue nations.
It has become a cliche to say that ''everything changed'' after 9/11, but for two great American intellectuals -- the sociologist Edward Shils and Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the former New York senator -- recent events would have represented the eternal return of the same. Both argued that in the past, the United States has taken real foreign threats and vastly exaggerated the menace they represented, spinning out conspiracy theories. These justified the creation of a state based on secrecy that undermined American liberties and the free exchange of information, the fundamental sources of success for the United States as a society. 
 Shils, one of the founders of modernization theory and a longtime professor at the University of Chicago, wrote ''The Torment of Secrecy: The Background and Consequences of American Security Policies'' in 1956, in the immediate aftermath of the McCarthy era. Shils accepted the reality of the Soviet threat and the existence of conspiracies against the American way of life. But he also argued that American democracy, in contrast to the historically aristocratic orders in Europe, was based on a principle of publicity in public affairs -- indeed, it ''luxuriated'' in its wide-open culture. That openness made the idea of external threat and internal subversion especially shocking: ''In America, more excitable temperaments and a tradition of violence in expression and energy in action have prompted a passionate response to the threat of secret machinations.'' A weaker sense of privacy than that of the Europeans, as well as a ''flimsier attachment to corporate bodies,'' made Americans seek their identity in great national symbols, leading to a hyperpatriotism and a tendency to see things in black and white. 
 In the early days of the cold war, the government's response to these fears was to grant the executive branch a huge degree of discretion in security affairs. The most visible manifestation of this tendency was the development of a classification system that suddenly removed a large amount of information from public scrutiny, and a system of loyalty checks that, in Shils's words, ''hurt the delicate tissue which binds our society together.'' 
 Shils had no more ardent disciple than Moynihan, who wrote an introduction to a 1996 reissue of ''The Torment of Secrecy.'' Moynihan used his perch on the Senate Intelligence Committee to make a sustained attack on the government's penchant for secrecy, and for his fellow Americans' willingness to tolerate restrictions on their liberties in the name of security. In his book ''Secrecy: The American Experience,'' published in 1998, he argued that ''secrecy enables a constitutionally weak executive to bypass the legislature in making decisions that the legislature will not support when things go wrong.'' 
 Moynihan pointed out that the Venona intercepts of decrypted Soviet communications from the late 1940's, declassified only after the cold war ended, showed without a doubt that there had been a major Soviet spy network in the United States. The intercepts proved that Julius Rosenberg was guilty of atomic espionage, and that Whittaker Chambers's charges that Alger Hiss was a Soviet agent were correct. Defense of Hiss had of course become a cause celebre among the liberal intelligentsia of the 1950's. And yet security officials within the government all along had conclusive evidence of his spying, and of the true scope of the Soviet conspiracy. But they failed to reveal what they knew, even to President Truman. This failure, Moynihan said, allowed the public imagination to supplement real knowledge with destructive fantasies, which in turn called into being a generation of anti-anti-Communists. This is a polarization with which we are still living today.
 The creation of a national security bureaucracy walled off from public scrutiny produced other malign effects as well. Assumptions about the economic strength of the Soviet Union generated by the intelligence community were not scrutinized against what many people who had actually visited the country knew about its condition. This led to a consistent overestimating of the Soviet threat and the failure to predict the largest event of the late-20th century, the collapse of Communism. All bureaucracies seek to enlarge their missions, and in true form the end of the cold war led not to a decrease in the number of official secrets, but to a vast increase. 
 Rereading these books in the light of 9/11, the Iraq war and the Bush administration's current efforts to extend executive power makes one realize the extent to which our current situation is not in the least new. While the nihilistic murder of nearly 3,000 Americans on American soil was unprecedented, the fact remains that both the actual and perceived threat of the late 1940's was much more acute than the one presented by Islamist terrorism today. The Communists controlled a huge nation-state -- the Soviet Union -- and conquered half of Europe. In 1949 they came to power in the most populous country in the world. The awesome destructive power of nuclear weapons was new; experts at the time confidently predicted that many states would acquire them in short order and that future wars would be nuclear. Americans lived in the shadow not of the destruction of a single city, but of their entire society. And the enemy had agents who could potentially penetrate the country's most elite institutions, something few jihadists can aspire to do today.
 All new threats entail huge uncertainties. Then, as now, there was a pronounced tendency to assume the worst, and for the government to claim enormous discretion in protecting the American public. The Bush administration has consistently argued that it needs to be protected from Congressional oversight and media scrutiny. An example is the National Security Agency's warrantless surveillance of telephone traffic into and out of the United States. Rather than going to Congress and trying to negotiate changes to the law that regulates such activities, the administration simply grabbed that authority for itself, saying, in effect, ''Trust us: if you knew what we know about the threat, you'd be perfectly happy to have us do what we're doing.'' In other areas, like the holding of prisoners in Guantanamo and interrogation methods used there and in the Middle East, one can only quote Moynihan on an earlier era: ''As fears of Communist conspiracies and German subversion mounted, it was the U.S. government's conduct that approached the illegal.'' 
 Even if we do not at this juncture know the full scope of the threat we face from jihadist terrorism, it is certainly large enough to justify many changes in the way we conduct our lives, both at home and abroad. But the American government does have a track record in dealing with similar problems in the past, one suggesting that all American institutions -- Congress, the courts, the news media -- need to do their jobs in scrutinizing official behavior, and not take the easy way out of deferring to the executive. Past experience also suggests that the government would do far better to make public what it knows, as well as the limits of that knowledge, if we are to arrive at a balanced view of the challenges we face today.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Ray Bartkus)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LITERATURE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); COLD WAR (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TERRORISM (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%) Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Terrorism

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%)

PERSON: Francis Fukuyama; Edward Shils; Daniel Patrick Moynihan; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (92%); IRAQ (76%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



159 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; 'T'; Column 1; T: Design Magazine; Pg. 182

LENGTH: 1433 words

HEADLINE: The Cumulus Effect

BYLINE: By Herbert Muschamp

 BODY:
Oh, for a lazy day. We could go lie on a hillside, stare up at the sky and watch the clouds roll by. What do they remind you of? A team of white horses. Rows of cotton. The beards of wise men. The new Congress Center in Rome ...
The what?
 A BMW facility in Munich. An art museum in Boston ...
 Are we looking at the same sky? 
 Or it could be that the ground has turned upside down. It can look that way when you're up in a plane sometimes, and not only when you're flying through the Bermuda Triangle. Frequent flyers often lose their sense of orientation. Perhaps that's why architects, who are among the most frequent flyers in the world today, are now constructing buildings that resemble clouds. They want our world to be as topsy-turvy as theirs has become in an era of cosmopolitan building.
 Let's not call this a movement. ''Formation'' is a more apt term for these condensations of social space. Now wafting across urban skies in Europe, the United States and other regions too far-flung to keep track of, cloud buildings come in nearly as many types as the moist varieties produced by nature. Yet the ground-based versions share a common feature: all derive their main visual identity as urban objects from a hovering horizontal volume, a packet of aerial atmosphere that looks only temporarily tethered. Even when made of concrete, steel and other materials beloved by gravity, these structures are poised to float away on the next gust of wind or fashion.
 The new Institute for Contemporary Art in Boston, designed by Diller Scofidio + Renfro, is of a type we'll call the Slabulus: a floating box, containing galleries, cantilevered over a rank of bleachers that faces outward to Boston Harbor. This cloud will shelter you from others if a storm breaks. Like the British architect Will Alsop's design for the Sharp Center for Design at Ontario College of Art and Design, the ICA evokes memories of the ''cloud-iron,'' a skyscraper proposed in 1924 by the Russian architect El Lissitzky. The new Congress Center by Massimiliano Fuksas in Rome offers a jumbo cumulus in a box. Built in Esposizione Universale di Roma, the district planned in the 1930's by Mussolini for a world's fair that never took place, this glass-enclosed piece of artificial fluff is the perfect counterpoint to Il Duce's stolid neo-Classical style.
 You will recognize a Big Mama Cloud because it hovers close to the ground, so that all living creatures requiring nourishment can just reach up, pull off a puff and be satisfied. Phaeno Science Center in Wolfsburg, Germany, designed by Zaha Hadid, is an exemplary model of this type. Not since Eero Saarinen's TWA terminal has reinforced concrete been given such a lift. And you will recognize a Big Daddy Cloud because it was designed by Wolf Prix, of the Vienna firm Coop Himmelb(l)au. Prix's new BMW Welt, in Munich, where customers can go to pick up their shiny new cars, is the fulfillment of a long preoccupation with architecture's aerial dimension. ''Get Off of My Cloud,'' in fact, is the title of a collection of Prix's polemical writings that was published last year. But the Rolling Stones' territorial allusion must be chalked up to Viennese humor. Prix wants lots of people to leap aboard his floating constructions, start pillow fights and make it snow.
 Even before Jack climbed up the beanstalk and came down with the gold, people were imagining a cloud-cuckoo land where fairy tales come true. Plans for Museum Plaza in Louisville, Ky., could finally realize this secular heaven. Supported by a cluster of skyscrapers, an aerial ''island'' designed by the New York firm REX becomes the foundation for a second city in the sky. The result is a downtown and an uptown all in one.
 The cloud motif is not unprecedented in architectural history. Clouds are a common feature in Baroque churches. Molded from plaster, they billow above altars, wrap around columns and spread across ceilings, occasionally providing swirling settings for sculptures like the famed works of Giovanni Lorenzo Bernini. Part of the grand spectacle with which the Counter-Reformation hoped to lure stray sheep back to the Roman Catholic flock, clouds traced the vertical path to heaven that could be attained by those who embraced the authority embodied by the altar.
 The device was briefly reprised as audience bait in 20th-century movie palaces, where rolling clouds were projected onto star-spangled ceilings while moviegoers took their seats between shows. Here, heaven has been displaced by the glamour of fame, the lofty firmament inhabited by Hollywood's twinkling stars. And if the feature attraction was a biblical epic, like ''The Robe,'' we might glimpse the stars ascending a cinematic equivalent of the Baroque altarpiece. Hollywood clouds did double duty: redemption by faith became fused with redemption by fame. The heavenly choir asks for autographs between hymns.
 Cloud buildings today offer redemption by architecture. That's one of their meanings, at least. Build something like this and your town will be redeemed from obscurity, decline, backwardness, dullness and other undesirable attributes. You will be on the map. You will be up to the minute, gazing toward the horizon of the future. A cloud building is a rainmaker, in other words. It showers cultural prestige and the economic benefits that flow from it.
 I'm singing in the rain. I grew up in the years when the idea of the urban center was equated with irreversible deterioration. And I lived through the postmodern period, when the belief took hold that the glory days of the industrial city could be recaptured by constructing wan imitations of period styles. But retro ballparks and ersatz Art Deco office towers conveyed little optimism about the fate of cities in the age of globalization. By contrast, these floating horizontal structures lift the eyes and invite the imagination to glimpse the city's evolving place within a cosmopolitan frame of reference. I accept the invitation with pleasure.
 Considering the striking novelty of their appearance, it is worth noting that these levitating pieces of the city are actually the fruits of almost four decades of urban research. Wolf Prix and Helmut Swiczinsky got the idea to name their firm Coop Himmelblau on a flight from Paris to Vienna in 1968. Like many people of their generation, the two Viennese were charged up by the spirit of solidarity that accompanied the student protests in Paris in May of that rambunctious year. That spirit -- the desire to work in a collaborative setting -- is reflected in the ''Coop'' part of the name.
 ''Himmelblau'' means ''sky blue,'' an image they acquired while gazing out the window on the flight home. (About a decade ago, when their practice took off, they altered the name to Himmelb(l)au: ''bau'' means ''build.'') Couldn't buildings aspire toward the condition of clouds: nebulous, shape-shifting, perpetually in transition? An adolescent dream, perhaps, but why shouldn't there be a place for such fantasies in the metropolis? Why should there be this split between architecture as the instrument for imposing adult order and the pop culture we consume to escape from it? What forms might emerge if this convention were laughed away?
 For a long time, the blue skies remained solely on paper. But many of Coop Himmelb(l)au's contemporaries were also thinking along cloudy lines. An elevated memorial and park for downtown Los Angeles, ''Steel Cloud,'' was designed by the New York firm Asymptote in 1988. An artificial cloud, generated by computerized nozzles, was the centerpiece of Blur Building, a pier pavilion designed by Diller + Scofidio for Lake Neuchatel in 2002. That sameyear, the Fresno Metropolitan Museum selected the Los Angeles architect Michael Maltzan's design for a hovering ''parasol'' for its future building. Kunsthaus Graz in Graz, Austria, a little acrylic glass pileus cloud designed by Peter Cook and Colin Fournier, was completed in 2003. 
 Despite the notoriously radical impatience of the 60's generation, the decade's architectural fantasies have endured the long period of incubation that such ideas traditionally require before reaching physical form in urban space.
 The wait was worth it. We need clouds more urgently than we did 40 years ago -- need to enlarge our consciousness of the cosmopolitan framework, need to be reminded that the cultural relationship between cities transcends the political differences between nations. If that is only a dream, then let's just fall asleep peacefully on our lazy hillside while the clouds of discord gather.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The spiral ramp of the BMW welt In Munich, by Coop Himmelb(l)au, which will open in winter, is a key element of the building's dynamic tension. opposite: a similar kind of tension is expressed in the cloud motifs that are typical of Baroque churches, like the 18th-century Karlskirche in Vienna.
Phaeno Science Center (above and above, left) in Wolfsburg, Germany, designed by Zaha Hadid and open since last November, is lifted off the ground on concrete cones, creating a public plaza and giving the building a sense of weightlessness.
Boston's Institute of Contemporary Art, by Diller Scofidio + Renfro, opening this fall, is a mix of translucent and Transparent glass, wood and metal. Swooping out to the water's edge, the 65,000-square-foot building seems to hover in midair.
Massimiliano Fuksas's Congress Center (left and above) in Rome, opening in early 2008, contains a steel-and-teflon ''cloud'' -- the idea for which came to Fuksas one day when clouds were blowing in a strong wind.
Museum Plaza (top) in Louisville, Ky., designed by the architectural firm REX, Will Be a mixed-use building with towers (one 57 stories high) evenly distributed above and below an aerial platform, creating a ''city in the sky.'' (Photographs by Harf Zimmermann
Ica Boston
Werner Huthmacher
Helene Binet
Rex
 Fuksas)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); COMPOSITE MATERIALS (75%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (74%); ANIMALS (72%) Architecture; Clouds

PERSON: ZAHA HADID (56%) Herbert Muschamp

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (95%); ROME, ITALY (91%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (75%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (92%); ITALY (91%); EUROPE (75%); AUSTRIA (75%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



160 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; 'T'; Column 1; T: Design Magazine; Biblio File; Pg. 94

LENGTH: 1436 words

HEADLINE: Ruin with a View

BYLINE: By Holly Brubach

 BODY:
For all our war memorials and our golden-oldies radio, you could argue -- convincingly, I believe -- that as a nation, we have an uneasy relationship with the past. Among the latest standard-issue versions of the American dream is an updated iteration of the house in the suburbs, with a two-car garage, a ''country'' kitchen paved with floorboards resurrected from a local barn, a wireless audio system, flat-screen televisions and a cupola or a fan-light window or a gabled roof -- some quaint historical feature that quietly invokes an indeterminate era more gracious than our own. The past exists for us in old movies and scrapbooks, in ''vintage'' clothing and ''classic'' cars, in the sanitized restoration of selected landmarks. Meanwhile, the derelict buildings in our deserted inner cities are waiting to be torn down and replaced by the latest exercise in urban revitalization. It would never occur to us to put them in the same category as, say, the Colosseum. The Colosseum is a ''ruin,'' and ruins, to our minds, are picturesque and foreign, dignified by centuries -- venerated relics of some vanished civilization. But, as a handful of recent books attest, this definition is more convenient than it is useful. 
''American Ruins'' (the Monacelli Press) -- the title on first hearing sounds like an oxymoron -- challenged these notions in 1999, with an elegiac survey of decrepit architectural grandeur compiled by Camilo Jose Vergara, a photographer and essayist who is (it seems to me worth noting) Chilean. Examining his images, reading his lyrical account of the conditions he encountered, the reader can't help wondering whether the poetry inherent in these scenes of metropolitan entropy might not be more evident to someone raised in another culture. I think it's safe to say that few Americans by birth would recognize the beauty that Vergara finds in buildings routinely dismissed as eyesores. And yet, through his lens, we see it, too. In a section titled ''Accumulating Gloom: An Education,'' he explains: ''I am drawn to the themes of exile, lost wars, sickness, failure, decay, and death.'' (A dubious candidate for the life of the party, but a fascinating companion nonetheless.) ''These works move me sometimes to tears and fill my mind with images of great power and terrible loss,'' he continues, ''yet for all their sadness they also give me pleasure.''
 The buildings that Vergara cites are in most cases too expensive to restore and too expensive to tear down. They simply persist, neglected, colonized by a shadow population of hookers, drug addicts, artists and the homeless, forcing the forward march of urban renewal to take a detour and go around them. Some (the Book-Cadillac Hotel, the Packard Motors Plant, Michigan Central Railroad Station and the J.L. Hudson department store, all in Detroit) reappear in ''Ghostly Ruins: America's Forgotten Architecture,'' by Harry Skrdla (Princeton Architectural Press), published this fall. Skrdla and Vergara seem fixated on Detroit, for obvious reasons, but I, for one, wish that their research had taken them farther afield to any number of other second- and even third-tier American cities that could provide similar examples of magnificent decay.
 In addition to the overlaps, these books are testimony to certain styles and features that recur in these now-defunct architectural masterpieces. Corinthian columns, to cite one example, adorn any number of facades, from the Clinton Avenue Trust, in Newark, to the Berger Court, in the South Bronx, boldly deploying classical detail in an ambitious bid for legitimacy and (one imagines) as a pledge of allegiance to public-spirited ideals that hark back to ancient Greece. The impression of solidity and permanence that the Classical style usually confers seems faintly absurd in these instances, however, as we watch them succumb to the effects of time. Among the most striking of the sites is that of Windsor, a house built in 1861 for the owner of a cotton plantation in Port Gibson, Miss. Originally 25 rooms, the house burned to the ground in a fire more than a century ago. All that remains are 23 of the 28 columns with cast-iron Corinthian capitals that supported the portico on all sides. Skrdla shows them as they are today, delineating the house's perimeter and silhouetted against the sky, like some Dixie Acropolis.
 ''Ghostly Ruins'' reprises many of Vergara's themes, but this time the author is a tour guide, herding us onto the bus, with a commentary that is chatty and sometimes glib. ''Perhaps the things you saw will leave a lingering impression,'' he writes in the afterword. ''Perhaps you may now regard them in a somewhat different light. ... After all, buildings are people too.''
 If that's the case, then New Orleans is now an architectural morgue. Two new books document the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, and both establish a whole new category of American ruins, on an unprecedented scale. In ''After the Flood,'' by Robert Polidori (Steidl Publishing), and ''In Katrina's Wake: Portraits of Loss From an Unnatural Disaster,'' by Chris Jordan (Princeton Architectural Press), we witness the devastation in lavish detail, and the poetic fascination is eclipsed by alarm and a sickening awareness of the damage's relentless extent. Wreckage fills the frame. The desolation is oppressive, overwhelming. The atmosphere of loss and nostalgia that pervades Vergara's and Skrdla's photographs of buildings that are forgotten but not gone descends here into grief and mourning for the everyday texture of lives that will never be rebuilt.
 Laissez les bons temps rouler. These images bear no relation to the gregarious, guidebook New Orleans, renowned for its brassy jazz and its Mardi Gras confetti. We make our way through these books without encountering a soul. Landscapes and still lifes depict a ghost town -- waterlogged, moldy, uninhabitable. Jordan's focus is on the flotsam of things that used to belong to someone -- the owners now dead or displaced, their possessions set adrift: marooned appliances, silent pianos, mud-caked hymnals, a chair suspended in a fence, a truck lying on its side like a beached whale. Polidori's subject is the buildings, on view in scenes of shipwrecked bungalows and frame houses reduced to piles of soggy kindling. For the interiors, he resorted to long exposures without the benefit of electric light, to record the vestiges of a domestic routine that's abruptly cut short.
 In picture after picture, the evidence accumulates, and the effect is inevitably political. In his introduction to ''After the Flood,'' Jeff L. Rosenheim contends that for Polidori, the ''primary cause'' of the catastrophe was ''idle negligence,'' not a Category 3 hurricane. In an essay that precedes Jordan's photographs, Bill McKibben argues that ''Katrina exposed not only the new physics of global warming but also the new chemistry of politics in our country.'' Public assistance and disaster relief have increasingly fallen to the private sector, as if these were voluntary gestures, a matter of conscience, a tax deduction, rather than our collective responsibility.
 These inventories of fallen monuments to our ambition as a nation -- some of them made obsolete over years of disuse, some rendered worthless overnight -- are unsettling for what they say about our culture. Taken all together, they signal the demise of the American empire. As Vergara and Skrdla fill us in on the circumstances behind each of their examples, we come to understand just how many of these buildings abandoned in our midst are the victims of our arrogance and our complacency. Ornate terminals for an extensive railway network that languished as we became more reliant on our cars, vast factories for manufacturing products now made overseas, public libraries and stately courthouses erected as temples to learning and justice in a mood of municipal largesse that has long since faded -- these shifts, under way for decades, created the conditions that made Hurricane Katrina possible: the global warming that heated the tides, a downsized government with inadequate resources to handle the crisis, the cavalier response of leaders voted into office on the basis of their not-my-brother's-keeper ideology.
 Europeans, who are more accustomed to living amid the evidence of prior civilizations, may do a better job of taking their ruins in stride. But for us, the forlorn buildings that these books describe take the measure of how far our society has fallen. They mar the landscape that tells us who we are and stand before us, a reproach and an indictment.


GRAPHIC: Photo: (Photograph By Abelardo Morell/Bonni Benrubi Gallery, NYC)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LITERATURE (87%); RADIO FORMATS (78%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); SUBURBS (72%); WRITERS (70%); CITIES (68%); WEATHER (64%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (62%); HURRICANES (60%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (56%) Books and Literature; Buildings (Structures); Architecture; Reviews ; Books and Literature; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

PERSON: Camilo Jose Vergara; Holly Brubach; harry skrdla; Robert Polidori; Chris Jordan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



161 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: Familiarity Breeds Many Solid Returns

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD

 BODY:
LARGE, well-established companies, including blue chips and big dividend payers, drove the returns of many of the third quarter's top-performing stock mutual funds. Here, managers of three of them talk about their stocks and what they see ahead in the market.

Blue Chips Rule
 The $75 million Old Mutual Large Cap fund, which rose 9.9 percent in the third quarter, made money in blue-chip stocks, said its manager Jerome J. Heppelmann, 35. 
''I think a lot of people got burned paying high prices for blue-chip stocks during the 1999-2000 stock market bubble,'' Mr. Heppelmann said. They sold off significantly, he added, as these companies' growth rates slowed. But the stock market volatility this spring prompted ''a flight to quality'' in the most recent quarter,'' he said.
 One winner was Microsoft; its shares, which account for 4.5 percent of the fund's assets, rose 17.8 percent in the quarter. ''They have everything I look for in terms of value,'' Mr. Heppelmann said, ''historically low price-earnings ratios and record high cash that management works to return to shareholders in share buybacks and dividends.''
 Another winner was the Symantec Corporation of Cupertino, Calif., the maker of Norton antivirus and other software. Its share price began to fall in late 2004, Mr. Heppelmann said, on concerns that antivirus software was becoming a commodity that would become available free. Those concerns are beginning to dissipate, he said, and the company posted better-than-expected earnings over the summer. Symantec shares rose 36.9 percent during the quarter.
 The fund also profited from MasterCard Inc., the credit card and processing company. It has been a healthy operation for many years, although its initial public offering was just this spring. The I.P.O. ''came in very strong right out of the gate,'' Mr. Heppelmann said. Since then, the company has continued to perform strongly, he added, so ''a lot of people who missed the I.P.O. have just flocked to this stock.'' Its shares rose 46.6 percent in the quarter. 
 As far as the overall economy is concerned, he says he is ''cautiously optimistic.''
 ''I expect a soft landing for the economy in general,'' he said, ''and positive but low returns in the broad stock market.''

Neglected No More
 Large-cap stocks propelled the $318 million AllianceBernstein Focused Growth & Income fund, which gained 8.9 percent for the quarter. Frank V. Caruso, 49, the lead manager, says he uses a ''fundamentally driven, bottoms-up'' approach to picking its 55 stocks. Its Class A shares have a 4.25 percent front-end load, or sales charge.
 ''Our fund performed well this quarter as investors finally began to take notice of just how cheap the neglected blue chips have become over the last few years,'' Mr. Caruso said. ''These companies stand out as the best values in America.''
 The fund made money in shares of Sun Microsystems, the technology company in Santa Clara, Calif. The company is just beginning to emerge from a long, post-technology-bubble funk with many new products, Mr. Caruso said. ''We think Sun is one of the more underappreciated and well-positioned big-cap tech companies around,'' he said. Shares rose 19.3 percent during the quarter.
 Another winner was Motorola, the communications equipment company. It has consistently gained revenue and market share over the last two years, as management has cut costs and refocused its businesses, Mr. Caruso said. He added, ''We believe they're building a better collection of businesses than existed just a few years ago.'' The stock gained 24.3 percent.
 Axis Capital Holdings, a property and casualty insurer based in Bermuda, benefited from expert underwriting, better pricing and what has so far been a benign hurricane season, he said. ''Axis is an extremely cheap stock from a current and future earnings power perspective,'' he added. Its shares rose 21.8 percent.
 Looking ahead, he sees continuing profitability and good opportunity in blue-chip stocks. ''Stock valuations appear reasonably conservative to us, given the current high levels of corporate profitability and low level of interest rates,'' he said.

The Dogs Are Back
 ''The Dogs of the Dow'' strategy, an approach to investing that has been out of fashion, led the $108 million Hennessy Total Return fund to an 8.4 percent return in the quarter.
 ''We just stuck with our discipline, said the manager, Neil J. Hennessy, 50. ''If you buy quality stocks, over time you'll do fine.''
 In its classic form, the dogs strategy calls for buying the 10 highest-yielding stocks in the Dow Jones industrial average, called dogs since their prices tend to be beaten down.
 The fund owns shares of the 10 highest-yielding Dow stocks in equal dollar amounts. These account for 75 percent of fund assets; the rest is in Treasury bills. Over all, the portfolio stocks yielded 3.53 percent as of Sept. 30. Mr. Hennessy says he has divided the fund into 12 ''mini portfolios'' of roughly equal size and rebalances one each month, on a rotating basis, using an updated roster of the 10 top-yielding Dow stocks. 
 The dogs strategy was very popular in the 1990's but fell out of favor in the tech bubble as investors flocked to growth stocks that paid no dividends. The strategy did so poorly, Mr. Hennessy said, that people told him, '' 'Dogs of the Dow' is dead.'' He stuck with it nonetheless. ''It's a contrarian investment philosophy,'' he said. ''When stock returns are down, their yields are high.''
 The fund's top-performing stocks in the third quarter were Pfizer, up 21.9 percent; AT&T, up 18 percent; and Merck, up 16.1 percent.
 While the fund's strategy will not change regardless of market conditions, Mr. Hennessy is generally bullish on stocks.
 ''Everything is there -- low inflation, interest rates and unemployment, and high corporate earnings,'' he said. ''The economy is still growing; it's just slowing down.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Frank V. Caruso, lead manager of AllianceBernstein Focused Growth & Income, favors large-cap companies when picking its 55 stocks. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)
As manager of the Hennessy Total Return fund, Neil J. Hennessy buys the 10 highest-yielding stocks in the Dow Jones industrial average. (Photo by Thor Swift for The New York Times)
 Jerome J. Heppelmann, manager of the Old Mutual Large Cap fund, says he is ''cautiously optimistic'' about the economy. (Photo by Mike Mergen for The New York Times)Chart: ''Ahead of the Pack''Here is how three of the best-performing stock funds in the last quarter fared against the overall market and against their peer groups.Graphs track the following (alongside the S. & P. 500) from July-September:Old Mutual Large Cap ZAllianceBernstein Focused Growth, IncomeHennessy Total ReturnTHIRD-QUARTER RETURNSOld Mutual Large Cap Z: +9.9%Large blend: +4.5%AllianceBernstein Focused Growth, Income: +8.9%Large blend: +4.5%Hennessy Total Return: +8.4%Large value: +5.2%(Sources by Morningstar Inc., Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (75%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); BONDS (73%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (73%); CREDIT CARDS (68%); ANTIVIRUS SOFTWARE (65%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds

COMPANY: SYMANTEC CORP (84%); MASTERCARD INC (81%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); ALLIANCEBERNSTEIN HOLDING LP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Old Mutual Financial Network; Hennessy Total Return Fund; AllianceBernstein

TICKER: SYMC (NASDAQ) (84%); MA (NYSE) (81%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); AB (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (81%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (81%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: Carole Gould; Jerome J Heppelmann; Neil J Hennessy; Frank V Caruso

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



162 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OPENERS: SUITS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 223 words

HEADLINE: THE NAME GAME

BYLINE: By KATE MURPHY

 BODY:
Continental Airlines' former chief executive, Gordon M. Bethune, has agreed to let a little-known international business school name its campuses in the United States after him. 
 The institution, called the European School of Economics, was founded by an Italian pop singer and his brother and has campuses in three Italian cities -- Rome, Lucca and Milan -- and in London.
Its New York campus, which it opened last year in the Empire State Building, will be known as the Gordon Bethune School of Business. Campuses planned for Houston and Los Angeles will bear the same name.
 Mr. Bethune, who is still revered by Continental employees for reviving the airline in the 1990's, said he liked the school's emphasis on action rather than analysis: ''The problem in business is not coming up with a plan. It's getting people to carry out that plan.''
 The school is not accredited in the United States. Administrators said it is validated through the University of Buckingham, a private university in England. 
 The European School of Economics? ''I've never heard of it,'' said Stephen J. Kobrin, an international management professor at the Wharton School of Business. 
 When asked about the school's co-founder, Elio D'Anna, and his shift from pop music to education, Mr. Bethune said: ''We've all got a past. What's yours?'' KATE MURPHY


GRAPHIC: Photo: BAILING OUT? -- As if Airbus didn't have enough trouble with delays in its A380 airliner program, it had to deny last week that its chief, Christian Streiff, may jump to the carmaker Peugeot Citroen. (Photo by Leon Neal/Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); AIRLINES (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); SCHOOL INSPECTIONS & ACCREDITATION (73%); ACCREDITATION (73%); POP & ROCK (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%) Executives and Management; Names, Organizational; Business Schools; Executives and Management; Colleges and Universities

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: European School of Economics; Bethune, Gordon, School of Business; University of Buckingham

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (85%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (85%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (85%)

PERSON: CHRISTIAN STREIFF (58%) Gordon M Bethune; Kate Murphy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%); ROME, ITALY (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%); ITALY (92%); ENGLAND (57%) New York City; Houston (Tex); Los Angeles (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



163 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: 5 Years and Counting For Real Estate Surge

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
JUST when it seemed that real estate funds couldn't keep clobbering the market, they did it again. Among all the mutual fund categories that Morningstar tracks, real estate funds were the best performers in the third quarter. 
 In fact, real estate funds have been on a five-year streak, said John Coumarianos, a fund analyst at Morningstar. They have average annual returns of 22 percent for the five years through September, far more than any other domestic fund category that Morningstar tracks.
''Clearly they've crushed the market; I think there's cause for concern,'' said Mr. Coumarianos, who cautions investors not to bet too heavily on real estate after such a long run. 
 But investors have kept stampeding into real estate funds. They poured $3.32 billion into the funds during the first three quarters this year, according to AMG Data Services. To be sure, Mr. Coumarianos isn't advising investors to pull their money out of real estate entirely; he says the sector can offer a good way to diversify a portfolio. But investors who have owned shares of a real estate fund for several years may need to trim their positions, he adds. Generally, he recommends keeping 5 to 10 percent of a portfolio in real estate funds or REIT's, preferably in a tax-advantaged account, because the funds tend to have relatively high yields.
 Two of his favorite real estate funds are T. Rowe Price Real Estate and Morgan Stanley Real Estate. For investors who prefer index funds, he recommends Vanguard REIT Index. ''But this is one category where active management has won out,'' Mr. Coumarianos said.
 T. Rowe Price Real Estate had average annual returns of 23.7 percent in the five years through September, compared with 23.4 percent for Morgan Stanley Real Estate and 21.7 percent for Vanguard REIT Index.
 The T. Rowe Price and Morgan Stanley funds haven't been slouches over the last year, either, Mr. Coumarianos said. 
 During the 12 months through September, the T. Rowe Price fund rose 29.9 percent; its yield as of Sept. 30 was 2.61 percent. The Morgan Stanley fund rose 30.2 percent, and its yield was 1.27 percent.
 One of the biggest clouds over the real estate market this year has been the potential impact of higher interest rates. But most of that concern has hovered around the housing market, whereas real estate funds generally own commercial real estate, primarily shares of REIT's.
 David M. Lee, the fund manager of T. Rowe Price Real Estate, said higher interest rates could wind up benefiting the current owners of office buildings, shopping malls and hotels. That is because the higher rates would make it more expensive for developers to start new construction projects. At the moment, though rents have been rising for all types of commercial properties, Mr. Lee said that new supply was relatively slight. 
 On the other hand, many investors are attracted to real estate funds because they tend to offer higher yields than other stock funds. To some extent, that puts them in competition with bond funds, which real estate funds have generally been outperforming. He said that many leases for office space were signed three to five years ago, at rates well below current levels. As these leases come up for renewal, he said, the landlords should be able to charge more.
 ''Rents faced some headwinds after the dot-coms blew up,'' Mr. Lee said. ''Then we had the recession, then we had the jobless recovery, when we had G.D.P. growth from productivity increases. That doesn't fill office buildings.'' 
 Mr. Lee notes, however, that occupancy rates have begun to rise for office buildings, particularly in strong markets like Midtown Manhattan, Washington and Southern California. ''Typically, occupancy rises first, and then landlords can push up rents,'' he said.
 Ted Bigman, the manager of the Morgan Stanley Real Estate fund, says he thinks that hotel stocks are some the best deals in commercial real estate right now.
 ''When you look at the owners of the major urban full-service hotels, demand remains quite good, and new supply is quite anemic,'' Mr. Bigman said.
 Host Hotels and Resorts, Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide and Hilton Hotels are three of the largest holdings in his fund. Together, these three hotel companies comprise 14 percent of the portfolio.
 Host Hotels and Resorts, based in Bethesda, Md., operates more than 100 hotels in North America under various brand names, including Marriott, Ritz-Carlton, Hyatt, Four Seasons, Fairmont, Hilton and Westin. Until recently, the company was called Host Marriott. But in April, it completed the acquisition of 28 hotels from Starwood and announced that it would change its name to Host Hotels and Resorts to reflect that it now operate hotels with brands owned by companies other than Marriott International. The company is organized as a REIT for tax purposes, which means that it has to distribute 90 percent of its income to investors. These distributions are not taxed at the corporate level, so if a REIT is held in a taxable account, distributions are taxed as ordinary income.
 Starwood, based in White Plains, and Hilton, headquartered in Beverly Hills, do not operate as REIT's. Unlike Host Hotels, they have been selling some of their properties around the world and putting more emphasis on franchising their well-known hotel brand names. But Mr. Bigman said he expects both companies to retain many of their properties.
 ALTHOUGH the share prices of many real estate companies have skyrocketed in recent years, Mr. Bigman said the stocks had only been keeping pace with the prices of the properties they owned. ''The stocks are trading in line with the underlying value of their assets,'' he said, and in some cases, it was still ''cheaper to buy real estate on Wall Street than on Main Street.''
 But he warned investors not to expect real estate funds to keep up their current pace of returns. He said that a five-year stretch with average annual gains of 20 percent probably could not be repeated.
 Still, echoing Mr. Coumarianos at Morningstar, he said the best reason to own a real estate fund was portfolio diversification. 
 ''Are the best years behind us? Yeah,'' Mr. Bigman said. ''But a lot of guys who invest in stocks and bonds think the best years are behind them, too.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Marriott Marquis in Atlanta is owned by Host Hotels and Resorts, the largest REIT in the United States. (Photo by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)
The W Union Square in Manhattan is part of W Hotels, one of several brands that are owned by Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide. (Photo by Mark Lennihan/Associated Press)Chart: ''The Roaring REIT's''Real estate investment trusts have far outperformed the overall market since the beginning of 2002.Graph tracks total returns for both the S. & P. 500 and FTSE Nareit index from 2002-2006.(Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets
 Standard & Poor's)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); INDEX FUNDS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BONDS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (74%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); RETAILERS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Real Estate Investment Trusts; Mutual Funds

COMPANY: AMG DATA SERVICES (56%); MORGAN STANLEY REAL ESTATE CO (54%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Morningstar Inc

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: J Alex Tarquinio; John Coumarianos

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



164 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1529 words

HEADLINE: Why Your Fund Beat the Average, but You Didn't 

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
YOUR mutual fund's managers have put up stellar performance numbers. So why have your own returns fallen so far short of these spectacular figures, as charted in advertisements by the fund's promoters? 
 All too often, it's a question of timing -- of exactly when you bought your shares and how long you have held them. Your personal returns won't match the published fund returns unless you owned the fund's shares for the full 3-, 5- or 10-year period typically portrayed -- and didn't add to or subtract from your stake at subsequent intervals.
If you bought a mutual fund's shares only after the fund handily beat its benchmark or its competition, there is a good chance that you will be disappointed with your investment. 
 ''The reason that average fund performance and average shareholder performance are not the same is because people tend to buy too much of the fashionably expensive stocks and too little of what is out of favor,'' said Avi Nachmany, director of research at Strategic Insight, a mutual fund research company in New York. For example, investors put almost no money into mutual funds -- net of what they took out -- in the late 1980's and early 1990's, when stocks were relatively cheap. But they poured some $500 billion into so-called new-economy funds alone from 1995 to 2000. 
 ''These investors paid a terrible penalty for their market timing and their fund selections,'' said John C. Bogle, founder of the Vanguard fund complex in Valley Forge, Pa., who now runs a research center there.
 According to his data, the 200 equity funds with the largest money flows produced portfolio returns averaging 8.85 percent a year for the 10 years through 2005. But when adjusted for dollars actually at work, as Mr. Bogle has long advocated, the return of the typical investor in those funds was just 2.40 percent, annualized. That means an underperformance of 6.45 percentage points. 
 The data included three funds whose typical investors lagged by more than 20 percentage points -- because they were late to the party or moved in and out of the funds. These were Janus Enterprise, Old Mutual Select Growth Z and Pin Oak Aggressive Stock. For nine others, typical investors posted returns that were 15 to 20 points less than they would have achieved had they fully captured the portfolios' gains over the period. In only 2 of the 200 cases did typical investors do better -- and only slightly better -- than the fund portfolios themselves: in Putnam New Opportunities B and American Century Ultra.
 Recognizing that investors are concerned most about their own profit or loss, not that of a fund scorecard, Morningstar, the mutual fund rating company, is about to begin publishing data that takes a step in this direction. In a preliminary run, Morningstar adjusted returns for money flows and derived what it called a success ratio: the growth of $1 of cumulative investor return versus the growth of $1 of cumulative total return.
 A reading of 100 would mean exact equivalency. Anything more than 100 reflects a ''positive experience'' by the average investor in the fund over a given period. A reading of less than 100 means that the experience was at least mildly negative. 
 For funds of all types, including bond funds, with assets of at least $10 billion, only 18 percent (16 of 88) generated positive experiences over the three years ended August 2006; 54 percent were positive over five years and 34 percent were positive over 10 years.
 Even some of the biggest funds showed considerable variation. For example, the $45 billion Fidelity Magellan fund, now closed to new investors, was found to have a success ratio of 105.35 since 1996 (ranking 16th of 70) but only 96.06 for the most recent five years (79th of 83). For the latest three years, however, Magellan's success ratio was 101.74, placing it 3rd among 88 funds.
 One of the biggest swings was in the ratio of the Janus Fund, a money magnet in the booming late 90's. It had a success ratio of 82.71 over 10 years (61st of 70) and a dead-last 88.73 over five years. But after 2003, the fund's success rate rose to 101.37, or fourth place -- perhaps because of changes in the fund's marketing initiated by the Janus Capital Group, the fund's sponsor.
 One measure taken by Janus in 2000, when investors were fleeing growth funds, was to add highly personalized results to quarterly statements of its funds sold directly to investors; last year, it eliminated the standard portrayal of fund performance -- still available on the Web site -- to put the focus on shareholders' own experience.
 ''The most relevant number to an existing investor in a particular fund is that person's performance amount,'' said John Leuthold, vice president for investor marketing at Janus. ''That is their experience.''
 Mr. Bogle's analysis and the Morningstar success ratio both rely heavily on net fund flow data. Both appraisals are based on calculating fund performance over time according to the amount of money actually invested in a fund, after taking into account inflows and redemptions. Mutual fund money flows, when extreme, can be useful red flags that a certain class of assets, like stocks in emerging markets, may be about to implode, said John Bonnanzio, group editor at FundsNet Insight, an industry publication in Wellesley Hills, Mass. 
 Flows may also show that a fund is being swamped with more money than can be wisely invested and that it may soon have to turn investors away.
 But watching fund inflows and redemptions is far from a foolproof tool for deciding where to put money. ''Academic studies show that it's not a great way to do it,'' Mr. Bonnanzio said, noting that real estate trusts, for instance, have been hugely popular for years now and have yet to cool significantly.
 Brian Reid, chief economist at the Investment Company Institute, the industry trade association, said flow information like the new Morningstar success ratio ''provides another way to look at and measure'' performance, but he added that it would be useful only to financial advisers and ''a handful'' of investors who did their own research.
 Several factors other than investor behavior, he said, can affect money flows. If a fund is added to a large company's 401(k) choices for employees, for example, its flow could suddenly rise. 
 He flatly objected to Mr. Bogle's belief that funds should be required to calculate or report flow data, either as a substitute for the standard current measure or as a supplement.
 ''My concern is, if we begin to require a lot of different ways of reporting returns, it's just going to lead to investor confusion,'' he said. ''They begin to quickly become overloaded with information.''
 Many fund sponsors recognize that they, and not just their shareholders, have suffered heavily from herdlike investment swings. In response, fund companies have been trying to encourage clients to become more successful by using a buy-and-hold approach. 
 ''What we've seen, especially in the last three years, is the entire financial services industry focusing much more on the realization that left on their own, investors too often make suboptimal choices,'' Mr. Nachmany said.
 American Funds, Vanguard and Putnam Investments are among those warning investors about risks in hot sectors of the market, in some cases cutting promotion of new funds or pointing to neglected areas and stressing efficient allocation of assets by matching investors with the most appropriate funds.
 Life-cycle, or target-date, funds were at least partly inspired by this effort.
 THERE'S an extraordinary increase in the focus on asset allocation,'' Mr. Nachmany said, forcing investors to invest -- and advisers to recommend -- more investment in out-of-favor areas and less in currently popular ones. Mr. Nachmany said that in the last few years, two-thirds or more of inflows have been captured by funds that are guided by some sort of asset allocation strategy. 
 Janus, for one, has pushed hard to develop sales through advisers who can help steer investors away from ill-suited choices. Janus found that investors were moving rapidly toward funds with the best recent performance, said Mr. Leuthold, explaining why the firm removed a page from statements showing other Janus mutual funds and their standard performance. ''Now we're sort of forcing people to take another step -- going to the Web site or talking to a professional,'' he said.
 Mr. Bogle, a severe critic of the industry of which he has been such an important part, is less persuaded that mutual fund companies have broadly embraced the long view. He said investors still sank 95 percent of their money into funds that carry the top two Morningstar ratings, of four stars and five stars, which he says are closely linked to short-term returns. 
 But he calls Morningstar's effort to publish its nonpersonalized success ratios -- though they may not be officially be called that -- ''a big step forward.''
 This means, he said, that investors who buy today's favorite funds will more clearly see that they can lose money. ''That's an important thing for an investor to know,'' he said. ''It's kind of a warning sign.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''A Different Yardstick''Because of the timing of investments, a fund's published return often differs from the return that investors actually get. Dollar-weighted returns, which take timing into account, may provide a clearer picture. Here's a list of mutual funds with assets of at least $10 billion in which the gap between dollar-weighted or investor returns and traditionally calculated total returns is largest.MUTUAL FUND: Calamos Growth AFUND CATEGORY: Midcap growthSUCCESS RATIO+: 40.8410-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN*INVESTOR RETURN: 8.24%TOTAL RETURN: 18.39%MUTUAL FUND: Fidelity Mid-Cap StockFUND CATEGORY: Midcap growthSUCCESS RATIO+: 62.2110-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN*INVESTOR RETURN: 7.43TOTAL RETURN: 12.65MUTUAL FUND: Fidelity Growth CompanyFUND CATEGORY: Large growthSUCCESS RATIO+: 62.9810-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN*INVESTOR RETURN: 4.58TOTAL RETURN: 9.52MUTUAL FUND: Fidelity Dividend GrowthFUND CATEGORY: Large blendSUCCESS RATIO+: 69.4010-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN*INVESTOR RETURN: 6.37TOTAL RETURN: 10.33MUTUAL FUND: Oakmark Equity & Income IFUND CATEGORY: Moderate allocationSUCCESS RATIO+: 74.5610-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN*INVESTOR RETURN: 10.44TOTAL RETURN: 13.73MUTUAL FUND: Vanguard PrimecapFUND CATEGORY: Large blendSUCCESS RATIO+: 74.8510-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN*INVESTOR RETURN: 9.95TOTAL RETURN: 13.18MUTUAL FUND: American Funds Grth Fund of Amer AFUND CATEGORY: Large growthSUCCESS RATIO+: 75.6210-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN*INVESTOR RETURN: 10.51TOTAL RETURN: 13.64MUTUAL FUND: Davis NY Venture AFUND CATEGORY: Large blendSUCCESS RATIO+: 78.8810-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN*INVESTOR RETURN: 8.78TOTAL RETURN: 11.40MUTUAL FUND: Vanguard Total Stock Mkt IdxFUND CATEGORY: Large blendSUCCESS RATIO+: 80.5510-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN*INVESTOR RETURN: 6.56TOTAL RETURN: 8.89MUTUAL FUND: JanusFUND CATEGORY: Large growthSUCCESS RATIO+: 82.7110-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN*INVESTOR RETURN: 4.23TOTAL RETURN: 6.23MUTUAL FUND: Dodge & Cox IncomeFUND CATEGORY: Intermediate-term bondSUCCESS RATIO+: 82.7110-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN*INVESTOR RETURN: 4.76TOTAL RETURN: 6.76MUTUAL FUND: Fidelity Blue Chip GrowthFUND CATEGORY: Large growthSUCCESS RATIO+: 83.7410-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN*INVESTOR RETURN: 4.30TOTAL RETURN: 6.17MUTUAL FUND: Vanguard Health CareFUND CATEGORY: Specialty-healthSUCCESS RATIO+: 84.9010-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN*INVESTOR RETURN: 15.38TOTAL RETURN: 17.28MUTUAL FUND: Vanguard 500 IndexFUND CATEGORY: Large blendSUCCESS RATIO+: 85.6810-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN*INVESTOR RETURN: 7.16TOTAL RETURN: 8.83MUTUAL FUND: Pimco Total Return AdminFUND CATEGORY: Intermediate-term bondSUCCESS RATIO+: 85.7810-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN*INVESTOR RETURN: 5.29TOTAL RETURN: 6.92MUTUAL FUND: Van Kampen Comstock AFUND CATEGORY: Large valueSUCCESS RATIO+: 85.9810-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN*INVESTOR RETURN: 10.73TOTAL RETURN: 12.41MUTUAL FUND: American Funds Fundamental Invs AFUND CATEGORY: Large valueSUCCESS RATIO+: 85.9910-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN*INVESTOR RETURN: 10.00TOTAL RETURN: 11.67MUTUAL FUND: Van Kampen Equity and Income AFUND CATEGORY: Moderate allocationSUCCESS RATIO+: 86.1310-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN*INVESTOR RETURN: 9.84TOTAL RETURN: 11.49MUTUAL FUND: American Funds Smallcap World AFUND CATEGORY: World stockSUCCESS RATIO+: 87.0810-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN*INVESTOR RETURN: 7.50TOTAL RETURN: 9.00MUTUAL FUND: T. Rowe Price Mid-Cap GrowthFUND CATEGORY: Midcap growthSUCCESS RATIO+: 89.3610-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN*INVESTOR RETURN: 10.66TOTAL RETURN: 11.91MUTUAL FUND: American Funds American Balanced AFUND CATEGORY: Moderate allocationSUCCESS RATIO+: 90.5310-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN*INVESTOR RETURN: 8.92TOTAL RETURN: 10.01MUTUAL FUND: Fidelity Low-Priced StockFUND CATEGORY: Midcap blendSUCCESS RATIO+: 91.3110-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN*INVESTOR RETURN: 14.53TOTAL RETURN: 15.58MUTUAL FUND: First Eagle Global AFUND CATEGORY: World allocationSUCCESS RATIO+: 91.3310-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN*INVESTOR RETURN: 13.17TOTAL RETURN: 14.20MUTUAL FUND: American Funds New Perspective AFUND CATEGORY: World stockSUCCESS RATIO+: 91.8010-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN*INVESTOR RETURN: 11.15TOTAL RETURN: 12.10MUTUAL FUND: American Funds EuroPacific Gr AFUND CATEGORY: Foreign large blendSUCCESS RATIO+: 92.5010-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN*INVESTOR RETURN: 10.37TOTAL RETURN: 11.23* Data as of Aug. 31, 2006.+Cumulative investor return divided by the cumulative total return.A ''success ratio'' below 100 indicates that investor returns lagged behind total returns.(Source by Morningstar)(pg. 32)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); BONDS (90%); STATISTICS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); NEW ECONOMY (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds; Stocks and Bonds; Stocks and Bonds

ORGANIZATION: Vanguard Group Inc

PERSON: Robert D Jr Hershey; John C Bogle

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



165 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: In Search of a Blue-Chip Bounty

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM

 BODY:
ON paper, the third quarter was triumphant for stocks. Not only did the Dow Jones industrial average flirt with its record high -- thanks in part to falling energy prices and a pause in interest-rate increases -- but the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index had its best third quarter in nine years. 
 Yet for many mutual fund investors, who appear to be bracing for an economic slowdown rather than a stock market rally, the quarter's gains were much more modest than the major indexes would indicate.
While the S.& P. 500 delivered a total return of 5.7 percent in the three months ended Sept. 30, the average general domestic stock fund gained less than half as much, 2.5 percent. Among all domestic stock funds, including single-sector portfolios, the average gain was also 2.5 percent, according to Morningstar. 
 Part of the problem was that market leadership shifted noticeably during the summer months, and many mutual fund managers were caught flat-footed. For the last several years, stock funds made money by making big bets on shares of risky but fast-growing small companies. In fact, small-cap stock funds have been Wall Street's leaders since the bear market of 2000.
 But in the third quarter, ''it wasn't the higher-risk stocks that took the lead,'' said Jeffrey N. Kleintop, chief investment strategist at PNC Wealth Management in Philadelphia. Instead, the funds that performed best over the last three months were those that bet on large, stable blue-chip companies, whose shares in many cases traded at discounts to the overall market because they were overlooked for several years. These are the types of stocks that investors tend to cling to in the later stages of an economic cycle, when growth is harder to come by and when risks are rising, he said.
 The average large-cap value fund returned 5.2 percent in the quarter and 12 percent over the 12 months through Sept. 30. By comparison, the average small-cap fund that invests in growth-oriented stocks lost 2.2 percent in the quarter and was up just 4.9 percent for the past 12 months.
 Bond funds, meanwhile, outpaced domestic stocks for the second consecutive quarter, quietly posting their best quarter in several years. According to Morningstar, the average taxable bond fund returned 3.1 percent in the three months, as the Federal Reserve ended its long streak of interest rate increases and as long-term rates fell.
 As yields on 10-year Treasury notes tumbled from 5.23 percent in early July to 4.63 percent at the end of the quarter -- on fears of an economic slowdown -- the underlying value of older Treasuries in government bond funds rose. That helped the returns of long-term government bond funds climb to 6.7 percent. 
 Over all, long-term government bond funds were the second-best-performing category of mutual funds, behind only real estate sector portfolios, which posted an 8.3 percent gain in the quarter, thanks in part to falling rates.
 Not surprisingly, investors have been pouring more new money into bond funds than into equity portfolios. In July and August, for example, $9.9 billion of net new money was invested in bond mutual funds, according to Tobias M. Levkovich, chief United States equity strategist for Citigroup Investment Research. By contrast, investors pulled a net $7.8 billion from domestic equity portfolios. 
 The market shift toward safe, blue-chip stocks and bonds ''tells me that investors think the economy is coming in for a landing,'' said Jack A. Ablin, chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank in Chicago. He noted that this was an about-face from the first half of this year, when inflation -- not an economic slowdown -- was the biggest issue worrying investors.
 Technically, the economy has already begun to slow, with growth in the second quarter coming in at an annual 2.6 percent, versus 5.6 percent in the first quarter. By the third quarter, this slowdown was certainly reflected in commodity prices, as crude oil fell to about $60 a barrel from nearly $80. The oil price decline dragged down energy stocks, which had been among the market's big winners in recent years. According to Morningstar, the average natural resources fund, which invests heavily in the energy sector, lost 9 percent in the last three months. Precious-metals funds also lost ground, tumbling 6.6 percent.
 The question for investors is this: Will the economy have a so-called soft landing, in which it slows but avoids recession, or a hard landing, with a painful recession a distinct possibility?
 It depends on whom you ask. While ''the equity market is pricing in a soft landing, the bond market appears to be bracing for a hard landing,'' said Mario D. DeRose, fixed-income strategist at Edward Jones, a brokerage firm based in St. Louis.
 Mr. Ablin agreed that the stock and bond markets were conflicted on the nature of the slowdown. ''My concern is that history has shown that whenever there's a conflict between stocks and bonds, it's usually the bond market that's right,'' he said.
 Many bullish stock investors argue that they have history on their side.
 For more than 60 years, the fourth quarters of midterm election years have generally been exceptional for stocks. Since 1945, the S.& P. 500 has risen 7.6 percent, on average, during these periods. But Mr. Kleintop fears that equity markets may have pulled forward some of those expected gains this year. He is now forecasting stock returns of 3 percent to 4 percent in the fourth quarter. 
 Many investors are still looking abroad -- to foreign stock funds, which gained 3.4 percent in the third quarter. A recent survey by the Russell Investment Group showed that 52 percent of money managers are bullish on stocks in the developed markets of Europe and Asia. That makes foreign stocks the second-most-popular asset class, just behind domestic large-cap growth stocks.
 But Joseph P. Quinlan, chief market strategist at Bank of America's investment strategies group, said that investors must remember that developed markets abroad would also be affected by a slowdown in the United States economy. He noted, for instance, that a sizable portion of sales for European- and Japanese-based multinational corporations were derived from the United States. 
 As a result, Mr. Quinlan said he favors mid- and small-cap companies in developed Europe that are not as reliant on exports. In the third quarter, foreign growth stock funds that focused on large-cap stocks rose 3.2 percent, on average, while those that focused on small- and mid-cap stocks gained just 1.5 percent. 
 OF course, many market strategists forecast a resilient domestic economy, and therefore believe that investors shouldn't give up on domestic stocks. Nick Raich, director of equity research at the National City Private Client Group in Cleveland, said that domestic corporate profits were still stronger than expected and that ''the futures markets is starting to price in the possibility of rate cuts early next year.'' Fed action to reduce short-term interest rates could extend the third-quarter rally.
 But Anthony Chan, chief economist at JPMorgan Private Client Services, said the markets might not react favorably if the Fed were forced to cut rates in the first few months of 2007. 
 ''The equity markets should be careful of what they ask for,'' Mr. Chan said. If the Fed finds it necessary to lower rates quickly next year, the move could mean that the economy is slowing considerably faster than the markets expect -- and that's never good news for stocks.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tim Robinson) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BOND FUNDS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (87%); TREASURY SECURITIES (84%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (68%); PUBLIC DEBT (63%) Stocks and Bonds; Finances; Government Bonds; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Mutual Funds; Foreign Investments; Stocks and Bonds

PERSON: Paul J Lim

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



166 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: Prone to Wanderlust At the Wrong Time?

BYLINE: By CONRAD de AENLLE

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL stock funds have attracted record investment as Americans seek refuge from a downshifting economy at home. The net flow of money into foreign stock funds -- $109.3 billion through September, according to AMG Data Services -- exceeds the net $107.5 billion invested during all of 2005, the highest total until now.
 Fund companies are usually happy to have new cash to look after, but the billions being invested in international funds are causing some of their managers concern.
 The expansion of global commerce means that there are few places to go to escape a significant slump in the United States, and history shows that investors often contract bouts of wanderlust at the worst times. 
 Americans invested heavily in Japan in the late 1980's, just in time to catch the start of a multiyear bear market, and in mainland Asia before the financial crisis of the late 1990's. Closer to home, Mexico was a popular destination ahead of the peso's collapse in 1994.
 ''Over the years you have tended to see peaks in flows pretty well coincide with peaks in markets,'' said Iain Clark, manager of the Henderson International Opportunities fund, one of the top performers over the last five years in Morningstar's database of diversified funds specializing in large foreign companies. ''Retail investors haven't had a particularly good record in trying to time that.''
 Ben Walker, a manager of the Gartmore International Growth fund -- another strong performer, especially over the last year -- described the heavy overseas investment as ''a little bit worrying.'' While he does not see doom dead ahead, he said he has been seeking out companies less dependent on robust economic growth, especially growth in the United States. He shares that strategy with many of his peers.
 ''We're looking at stable, defensive companies with attractive valuations and high dividend yields and moving away from companies in cyclical industries with exposure to the U.S. housing market,'' Mr. Walker said.
 Such a safety-first approach may go against the nature of a growth manager like him, but it is standard procedure for Thomas A. Mengel, who as manager of the Ivy International Value fund is always looking for stocks whose bargain prices may insulate them from market turbulence. After a few years seeking value among smaller companies, he said, he is shifting his buying to blue chips, especially in Europe and Japan.
 His favorites include Vivendi, the French entertainment and communications conglomerate; Commerzbank of Germany; and Vodafone, the British company that provides mobile phone service globally.
 Vivendi's valuation does not take into account the worth of the company's various parts, which include the Universal Music recording business, the Canal+ Group film production company and a Moroccan phone company, Maroc Telecom, Mr. Mengel said. 
 Commerzbank, which he called ''very attractive and cheap,'' is a bet on Germany's economic recovery and consolidation in its banking industry. The company is going through a recovery all its own, he pointed out. It made an unsuccessful foray into investment banking and has done better lately by lending to smaller companies.
 Mr. Mengel said he was ''warming up again to Vodafone.'' Its stock endured a chilly reception for years after it paid far more for radio frequency licenses in Britain than they turned out to be worth. His warmth is also inspired by Vodafone's 5 percent dividend yield, he said.
 Turning to Japan, he noted that the market has not done well recently, but he said he was ''still finding decent value,'' especially in banks and brokerages and in telephone companies like DoCoMo.
 Mr. Walker of Gartmore has moved cash into all-weather sectors like telecommunications, utilities and retailing.
 Two utilities in his portfolio are the Pennon Group, a British water company, and Centrica, a gas supplier born in the breakup of British Gas. Centrica ''is benefiting from lower oil and gas prices, and it has a 3.7 percent yield,'' Mr. Walker pointed out.
 He said that Britain was one of his favorite markets, because ''valuations are attractive there and dividend yields are quite high.''
 A new addition to the portfolio is Telefonica, the dominant phone company in Spain and a leading service provider in many Latin American countries. A point in Telefonica's favor, beyond its strong position in several markets, is its 3.4 percent dividend yield, Mr. Walker said.
 Another holding is Telenor, a Norwegian telecom company whose activities are even more geographically dispersed than Telefonica's. Telenor has operations in Hungary, Russia, Serbia, Ukraine, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Thailand and Malaysia.
 Mr. Walker likes the growth prospects of emerging markets, but he prefers booking his around-the-world trip through companies like Telenor that are based in mature economies and conduct extensive business in emerging ones.
 ''As for buying stocks in those countries'' in the developing world, he said, ''a lot of them are expensive.''
 Samir Mehta, who manages the Eaton Vance Greater India fund among other Asia portfolios for that company and other fund providers, also finds emerging-market stocks expensive. They are vulnerable to American economic weakness, too, and that leaves the stocks in an especially precarious position, he warned.
 Mr. Mehta expressed long-term confidence in emerging economies, mitigated by doubts about the short term, when markets, especially in the developing world, can be slaves to the economic cycle.
 ''I'm cautious on the cyclical side,'' he said. ''From time to time we get a slowdown in the world economy, and that often coincides with a decrease in risk appetite.'' When investors become risk-averse, holdings in emerging markets are often the first to be cut loose.
 EMPLOYING a solution similar to those of his peers who focus on stocks in mature economies, Mr. Mehta said he was ''looking for companies that have certainty of earnings and cash generation and have high dividend yields.'' 
 It is no surprise that the approach is leading him into many of the same industries, including telecommunications and consumer staples. Among stocks he prefers in the first group are Philippine Long Distance Telephone and StarHub, a Singapore company that is doing well by bundling phone and cable TV service and Internet access. StarHub has a yield of more than 5 percent, he said, and makes special dividend payments to return capital to shareholders.
 Mr. Mehta's consumer-oriented choices include Hindustan Lever, an affiliate of Unilever, the Dutch-English provider of household goods and other staples, and Ports Design, a Chinese maker of high-end apparel that he holds as a play on growing spending by Chinese shoppers.
 Mr. Clark of Henderson is limiting his investment in emerging markets until valuations retreat to more reasonable levels.
 ''The fundamentals for emerging markets are very good, the best that I've seen for almost 30 years,'' he said, ''but I think that's fully in the prices. As a result, I don't think this is a particularly good time to be chasing them.''
 Unlike Mr. Mehta, Mr. Clark has the luxury of scouring for good investments in the developed world, not just in emerging economies. Echoing the popular theme, Mr. Clark is most interested in companies that are relatively immune to an American slump.
 His eclectic list of selections includes Deutsche Post, which owns the DHL delivery business but whose operations are otherwise focused on postal services in Germany; Fresenius, a German provider of products and services forkidney dialysis; the Capita Group, a British company to which corporate and government clients outsource administrative functions; and Sekisui Chemical, a Japanese home builder, no matter what the name says.
 While he is concerned about the exuberance that small investors are showing toward international stocks, Mr. Clark says he does not think that the zenith in fund flows or in share prices is here just yet. So far, Americans have gone only a little crazy over global markets, in his opinion.
 ''International funds have seen very strong flows in the last couple of years,'' he said, ''but investors have not yet reached a bubble mentality or gone completely mad.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Vodafone, a British company, and other major providers of mobile phone service are popular investments. (Photo by Andy Rain/European Pressphoto Agency)
 Hindustan Lever products in a store in Mumbai, India. A manager of Asian stock funds views consumer staples as an attractive category. (Photo by Santosh Verma/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (91%); BONDS (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); GLOBALIZATION (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RECORD INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (74%); DIVIDENDS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (70%); MUSIC (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (62%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (60%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Foreign Investments; Mutual Funds; United States Economy; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: AMG DATA SERVICES (58%); VIVENDI (51%); COMMERZBANK AG (51%); MAROC TELECOM (50%)

TICKER: VIV (PAR) (51%); VIV (BIT) (51%); CZB (LSE) (51%); CBK (FRA) (51%); IAM (PAR) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (51%); NAICS491110 POSTAL SERVICE (50%); SIC4311 UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (50%)

PERSON: Conrad De Aenlle

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (59%) UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



167 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OPENERS: THE COUNT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 177 words

HEADLINE: A Shrinking Government? Not Just Yet

BYLINE: By HUBERT B. HERRING

 BODY:
It's fascinating to peruse the Treasury Department's monthly tally of exactly what goes in and what goes out -- to, if you'll pardon the expression, follow the money. 
 Let's see -- there's the Defense Department, clearly a big spender these days. For the fiscal year through August, its gross outlays were $456.1 billion, up from $428.7 billion for the period a year earlier -- and nearly one-fifth of the federal government's spending.
Social Security barely tops that, with the agency's gross outlays at $535.7 billion, up from $514.5 billion. Then there's a lot of pocket change, like $30 million for the federal student loan reserve fund, down from $152 million.
 But surely, with a shrink-the-government Congress in control (except, perhaps, of its own members' occasionally intriguing behavior), Congress would tighten its own purse strings, wouldn't it? Well, no. Outlays for the Senate rose to $704 million from $672 million; for the House of Representatives, to $1.126 billion from $1.067 billion -- in both cases, outpacing inflation. HUBERT B. HERRING


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Capitol Bill''Despite their claims of financial prudence, both houses of Congress have spent more so far this fiscal year than last.Congressional outlays, 2006*HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES(IN MILLIONS)2005: $1,0672006: $1,126CHANGE: $59 (UP 5.5%)SENATE(IN MILLIONS)2005: $6722006: $704CHANGE: $32 (UP 4.8%)*Fiscal year, through August. Fiscal year 2006 began on Oct. 1, 2005.(Source by Department of the Treasury)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); STUDENT LOANS (73%) United States Armament and Defense; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Colleges and Universities; Student Loans; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: Defense Department; Social Security (US); Senate (US); House of Representatives (US); Congress (US)

PERSON: Hubert B Herring

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



168 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFFICE SPACE: THE BOSS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: Applied Psychology 

BYLINE: By DEBORA J. WILSON; As told to Amy Zipkin

 BODY:
I HAVE four brothers and a sister. At times it was like the movie ''Yours, Mine and Ours.'' My mother was incredible. We would come down in the morning and she'd have the whole kitchen counter lined with sandwiches. I was the oldest. I had a lot of responsibility for helping out, taking care of my brothers and helping Mom with dinner. 
 Until the seventh grade I was a straight-A student. That year I got a couple of B's. It was hard to do the transitioning to a different school. My father said, ''I'm a little disappointed in this.'' I was just crushed. He later apologized. And by the time he got to the sixth child he was glad if that child passed. 
I got a subscription to Psychology Today when I was 15. In our house something was always going on. As my brothers entered their teens, each misbehaved in a different way -- one might be rebellious or break curfew; another might date someone my parents disapproved of. My mother and I would analyze their motivations. 
 I enrolled as a psychology major at Rutgers University, but the economy was racked by hyperinflation, interest rates were around 21 percent and there was high unemployment. I had a practical side and really wanted a job and to make money, so I switched to business administration.
 During college my father got a transfer to Washington. I missed being with my family and came home to be with them the summer I was 19. I got a job as a waitress at a neighborhood restaurant a couple of miles down the road. It was a pub, with maybe 100 seats. I worked evenings and weekends.
 After a couple of weeks, the owner started to ask me to take care of vendor orders and deliveries. At the time I couldn't drink hard liquor, but I remember going into the liquor store every week with an inventory sheet telling the manager what we needed. I was making a couple of hundred dollars a week. I decided to continue working and finish school part time. I transferred to George Mason University. 
 In my first job after college, I was a supervisor of customer operations with the Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Company of Virginia. The first day on the job I met the team of people who were going to report to me. Here I was, 5 foot 2, 95 pounds and 22 years old. In those days people stayed at companies for years. All were older than I was, and I inherited the lowest-performing unit.
 It was a union shop. And for the first six to eight months the union steward filed dozens of grievances against me. Every single time I got one, we'd go through the same procedure. I'd have a peer or someone from human resources listen to the grievance with me. I was determined not to let them get to me. After a while the criticism finally stopped. When I left three years later, I was engaged and my subordinates were throwing me bridal showers. By then we were the top-rated or second-rated unit in the company.
 In 1994, I was the director of product development at Bell Atlantic in Arlington, Va. A former colleague who had left for the Weather Channel suggested that I consider a job there. I became a senior vice president in charge of developing new ways of using technology. My husband, who had been at the company that later became Lucent, became a trailing spouse. He was able to work at home, and helped care for our daughter, who was 8 at the time.
 This summer I helped my daughter, now 21, renovate a bungalow. She wants to be an entrepreneur. Her father and I loaned her the money to finance the project. The house is on the market now. When it sells, she gets to keep any profit left over after she repays our loan and pays her other expenses. My daughter worked on the project all summer before returning to college as a senior. I spent a few hours each weekend helping her. I wield a mean paintbrush.

DEBORA J. WILSON
President of the Weather Channel, Atlanta.

BIRTH DATE
Oct. 14, 1957

BIRTHPLACE
Loring Air Force Base in northeast Maine; grew up in Middletown, N.J.

RECENTLY READ
''Where Peachtree Meets Sweet Auburn,'' by Gary M. Pomerantz; ''The Weather Makers,'' by Tim Flannery

FAVORITE QUOTE
''You can't do wrong and come out right.''

MOST VIVID WEATHER RECOLLECTION
Hurricane Katrina



GRAPHIC: Photo: DEBORA J. WILSON

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PSYCHOLOGY (90%); RESTAURANTS (77%); CURFEW (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); HUMAN RESOURCES (70%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (68%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (67%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (67%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%) Weather; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%) Weather Channel

PERSON: Debora J Wilson; Amy Zipkin

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



169 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 5036 words

HEADLINE: The Long Zoom

BYLINE: By Steven Johnson. 
Steven Johnson is the author of ''Everything Bad Is Good For You.'' His new book, ''The Ghost Map,'' about an epidemic in Victorian London, will be published later this month.

 BODY:
Most eras have distinct ''ways of seeing'' that end up defining the period in retrospect: the fixed perspective of Renaissance art, the scattered collages of Cubism, the rapid-fire cuts introduced by MTV and the channel-surfing of the 80's. Our own defining view is what you might call the long zoom: the satellites tracking in on license-plate numbers in the spy movies; the Google maps in which a few clicks take you from a view of an entire region to the roof of your house; the opening shot in ''Fight Club'' that pulls out from Edward Norton's synapses all the way to his quivering face as he stares into the muzzle of a revolver; the fractal geometry of chaos theory in which each new scale reveals endless complexity. And this is not just a way of seeing but also a way of thinking: moving conceptually from the scale of DNA to the scale of personality all the way up to social movements and politics -- and back again. 
It is, by any measure, a difficult way of thinking, in part because our brains did not evolve tools to perceive or intuitively understand the scales of microbes or galaxies. You can catch glimpses of the long zoom in special-effects sequences, but to understand the connections between those different scales, to understand our place in the universe of the very large and the very small, you have to take another way in. To date, books and documentaries have done the best job of making the long zoom meaningful to mass audiences, starting with the Eames Brothers' proto-long-zoom ''Powers of Ten'' documentary of the 70's, which took the viewer from the outer cosmos to the atoms spinning in the hand of a man lying by the lake in Chicago. But a decade or two from now, when we look back at this period, it is more likely that the work that will fix the long zoom in the popular imagination will be neither a movie nor a book nor anything associated with the cultural products that dominated the 20th century. It will be a computer game. 
 The designer of the game happens to be both the most famous and most critically acclaimed designer in the young medium's history: Will Wright, the 46-year-old creator of the blockbuster hits SimCity and the Sims. When I visited with Wright recently, he was sitting in a greenhouselike office on the roof of an anonymous-looking complex in Emeryville, Calif., a few miles west of Oakland, where his studio is based. For the first few minutes of our meeting, Wright was having trouble with the atmosphere of the game, which is called Spore. He was trying to explain how some players will be able to create entire galaxies populated by artificial life forms when the game is introduced sometime late next year. He had pulled up the highest level of Spore -- where the player gets to create and colonize a new planet -- to demonstrate the way in which the game simulates the complex dynamics of ecosystems and food webs. But before he could colonize the planet, he had to cultivate an environment hospitable to life by heating up the surface or cooling it down and by adding moisture. Unfortunately, Spore's planetary simulator --- like our own atmosphere -- is vulnerable to the inconvenient truths of runaway feedback loops; as Wright added a little heat to his planet, it quickly spiraled into a molten fireball. And so our conversation lurched to a halt as Wright tried to get the right balance. 
 ''O.K., now we're finally cooling off,'' he said, clicking furiously on his computer screen. ''The temperature's going down, so we can get more water in here. Oh, now we've got way too much atmosphere.'' While adjusting the planet, he paused long enough to say: ''It's kind of like that labyrinth game where you're rolling the ball around the maze, trying to drop it in the hole. Except we've got these inertial effects, where your planet starts heating up, and you're trying to slow it down, but you get these runaway greenhouse effects.'' He turned back to the screen. ''O.K., our temperature's pretty good; our atmosphere's pretty good. Now let's see if we can add water.'' 
 This atmospheric balancing act is emblematic of Wright's whole career: hitting that elusive sweet spot between difficulty and accessibility, between highbrow concepts and lowbrow diversion. If he can get the atmosphere-building tool to work, it could be both an addictive game-play element and, at the same time, a hands-on lesson in the dynamics of atmospheric systems. The challenge here is, ultimately, a smaller version of the larger challenge that faces Spore. No one doubts that the game will be the most ambitious work in the history of this new medium, whenever it is released. But for it to succeed as a game, it can't just be complex. It also has to be fun. 
 If anyone can pull it off, it's Will Wright. This is the guy who made the urban planning simulation SimCity into one of the all-time top-selling games in history. There is probably no one alive who has a comparable track record of combining arcane scientific theories and compulsively addictive entertainment. 
 But even Wright hasn't tried to simulate an entire universe before. 
 I got a first glimpse of Spore six years ago, when I visited Wright to talk to him about the Sims Online, the networked version of the massive international hit, the Sims. We talked about the Sims Online and his general design philosophy for an hour or so, and then he cut off our conversation abruptly and said, ''Let me show you something else that I'm really excited about -- but you can't write about it yet.'' He then proceeded to show me a sequence of animations that looked, to my eyes at least, like the trip-out special-effects sequence at the end of ''2001.'' I had no idea what I was even looking at. It wasn't at all clear where the game was or if it was a game at all. 
 Spore has progressed mightily over the past six years -- an eternity in game-development time -- though an official start date has yet to be set by its producer, Electronic Arts, the world's largest game maker. ''What you're doing in Spore is layer by layer creating an entire world that at the end of the day is entirely yours: the creatures, the vehicles, the cities, the planets,'' Wright explained. Those layers map onto different spatial scales that you advance through as you play: cell, creature, tribe, city, civilization and space. (As in most traditional games, once you have completed a level, you can always go back to it. A skilled gamer might be able to reach the highest level after 30 hours of play, but like all of Wright's creations, the game has no definite ending.) As you begin playing Spore, you take on the role of a single-celled organism, swimming in a sea of nutrients and tiny predators. This part of the game has a streamlined, 2-D look that harks back to classic games from the 80's like PacMan. Once you have accumulated enough ''DNA points'' or ''evolutionary credits,'' you acquire the use of a feature called the ''creature editor,'' and things start to get really interesting. You assemble a new life form to represent yourself using an almost comically intuitive tool. If you have the technical chops to assemble a Mr. Potato Head, you can build a creature in Spore. You start with a basic body type wrapped around a standard skeleton, and then you can pretty much do whatever you want to it: stretch it out, condense it, add seven asymmetrical legs and one pincer, give it eyes on both sides of its head or wrap a polka-dot skin texture around it. I've seen creatures designed as exact replicas of the Care Bears, and I've seen creatures that look like H.R. Giger's sketches for ''Alien.''
 Once you have assembled your creature, you deposit it in a functioning ecosystem, a computer-generated world populated by plants, food, water, weather, predators and prey. At first you guide a single creature, instructing it to forage, hunt, drink, sleep, mate; your strategy evolves depending on the needs of your creature and the opportunities and threats presented by the environment. As you struggle your way through this early stage, you earn more DNA points that allow you to add new attributes to your creature -- like humanlike intelligence -- and eventually graduate to the next level, where you control a group of creatures that form a primitive tribe, augmented by simple tools. (Wright showed me a tribe bonding around a campfire, playing drums and dancing, before heading out for a communal hunting expedition.) At this point, the player moves from questions of basic metabolism to social dynamics: Is your tribe a band of warriors or a peace-loving commune? Is it intent on exploiting new technologies? Or does it focus on low-tech social camaraderie? 
 When your tribe has reached a sufficient level of sophistication, it will begin to form cities, and the player shifts to issues of trade and commerce or constructing roads and buildings. All the while, decisions made at earlier stages of the game continue to shape the current stage: adopting a carnivorous lifestyle in the creature stage changes the activities available to your subsequent tribe; a tribe of warriors will have a harder time building alliances with other cities when it reaches that stage. Eventually, you ascend to a United Nations-like perspective as you try to unify an entire planet divided between rival civilizations. Once you successfully pass from the ''clash of civilizations'' stage to the ''end of history,'' the game grants you that ultimate in Hegelian rewards: a spaceship. And then you're off terraforming other planets and exploring an entire universe teeming with Spore life. 
 The different levels of Spore call for radically different styles of game play, each a subtle tribute to a canonical game of the past that influenced Wright. There is an elegance to those allusions, but as a game design strategy, it's a risky move; most games don't force you to juggle different genres. ''When I looked at each scale,'' Wright said, ''the game play just seemed kind of natural to me: at the cellular level, you'd be PacMan; at the city level, it'd be Populous. I was worried about that, because mixed-genre games don't do that well. But eventually we just decided to break the rules, and the genres would just be a kind of landmark that the players would recognize.''
 To date, Wright has publicly demonstrated Spore on four occasions. Three of them were major game-industry conferences, all of which have triggered a frenzy of online analysis and debate. (Video clips of those demos have been downloaded hundreds of thousands of times on YouTube.) But for people who still think of game design as the province of nerds and arrested adolescents, Wright's most striking public demo came earlier this summer in San Francisco during an onstage conversation with the musician and artist Brian Eno in front of a thousand rapt fans gathered at the Herbst Theater. The two men riffed comfortably onstage, talking about ''generative'' art that evolves in unpredictable ways, often determined by the audience and not the original creator. Eno played one or two examples of his generative compositions, and Wright showed off a few levels of Spore. 
 ''We've both been working on similar lines,'' Eno said recently on the phone from his Notting Hill studio when I asked him about the connections between his work and Wright's, ''and I suppose we've converged. Instead of making fixed definitive things that we put out into the world, I think we've both decided that it's much more interesting to make things that even we can't predict.'' 
 One explanation for the widespread interest in Spore is the gaming industry's recent troubles. Sales have been uneven, and the best-seller lists are stacked with franchise hits, games whose basic conventions were established years ago, like the Madden football series, the controversial Grand Theft Auto titles and Wright's own Sims franchise, which has thus far spun off more than a dozen sequels and expansion packs. When you factor in the moral panics over violent gaming emanating from Washington, it makes for a somewhat depressing time to be a game developer. Spore promises an escape from this bleak present: the game itself is about as violent as a cartoon version of Animal Planet, which should come as welcome relief for an industry tired of public attacks on Grand Theft Auto as a corrupter of youth. 
 Another factor in the hype is Wright's extraordinary track record. His original breakthrough game, SimCity, released in 1989, helped inaugurate an entire genre of gaming: the ''god game,'' in which the player supervises a bustling and multifaceted system, managing resources, juggling different objectives. Visit the racks at a game store and you'll see dozens of titles that descend from Wright's original design for SimCity, games that let you manage a railroad empire or an amusement park or a zoo. (There are at least three games currently on the market that let you recreate Ancient Rome.) The Sims -- released in 2000 -- narrowed the god-game vista to the realm of the living room and the neighborhood. It went on to become the best-selling PC game of all time, in part because it attracted an unusual number of female players. Instead of allowing you to create the civic infrastructure for a vast metropolis, the Sims let players explore the more quotidian decision-making of home economics: paying the bills, buying furniture and appliances, cooking dinner for the kids. It is one of the resounding paradoxes of the game industry that its all-time best seller consists largely of performing household chores. 
 The sales history for the Sims is, of course, part of the reason that so many people are following Spore so closely. Since its introduction, more than 70 million copies of the original game and its spinoffs have been sold, generating $1.6 billion in sales. (The biggest Hollywood moneymaker of all-time, ''Titanic,'' grossed $1.8 billion worldwide.) 
 But Spore -- which will reportedly cost about $20 million to develop -- promises to be more than just a blockbuster diversion. As Wright's appearance with Eno suggests, the game perhaps deserves to be seen as a work of art first and foremost, a way of seeing and making sense of the world. If it succeeds, it may be in part because of the way its long-zoom perspective resonates with this particular moment in time. ''I don't know if we're thinking about 'powers of 10' more, but we definitely bump into that perspective now in all kinds of cultural contexts,'' says the game designer Ralph Koster, who wrote one of the best books to date about games and culture, ''A Theory of Fun.'' ''But Will has definitely been thinking about it. There was always something powers-of-10-ish about SimCity. And way, way back in SimEarth'' -- Wright's 1990 game -- ''there was a window that would pop up and say, 'This key reserved for future expansion for putting your SimCity into your SimEarth.'''
 ''It's funny how many people, average people who aren't science buffs or hard-core gamers, get the elegance of the theme -- the powers of 10 idea,'' Wright told me in his Emeryville office, having finally given up on creating a viable atmosphere. ''Everybody has a different take on it: for some people, it has a religious theme; for others, it's awe at nature and science. But everybody seems to understand that it's a valuable perspective, and it's a perspective that they like to have. In a way, what I'm trying to do is connect the almost inconceivable universal scale to the deeply personal, because what you do in the game is deeply personal.'' 
 The long-zoom perspective is one of the key ways in which Wright's work dovetails with Eno's. Their talk in San Francisco was sponsored by the Long Now Foundation, an organization created to facilitate thinking on immense temporal scales: a thousand years or beyond. (The ''long now'' is a coinage of Eno's, and the group's most famous project to date is the Clock of the Long Now, an engineering marvel designed to keep time for thousands of years.) ''One of the things that's obviously been happening for the past 100 or 200 years,'' Eno told me, ''is that the range of our experience has greatly expanded: we can see much smaller things and much bigger things than we ever could before. But we can also start thinking about much longer futures and much deeper pasts as well. That really makes a big difference to us as humans, because on the one hand it makes us realize that we're very powerful in that we're able to comprehend and see all of this universe. But it also makes us seem so much less significant. We're a tiny blip on a tiny radar screen. I think this is a feeling that people are trying to come to terms with, the feeling of where do we fit in all of this.'' 
 And arguably the best way to come to terms with that feeling is to explore those different scales of experience directly, to move from the near-invisible realm of microbes to the vast distances of galaxies. Of all the forms of culture available to us today, games may well be the most effective at conveying that elusive perspective, precisely because they are so immersive and participatory and because their design can be so open-ended. ''I wanted to make a game that would recreate a drug induced epiphany,'' Wright told me. ''I want people to be able to step back five steps, five really big steps. To think about life itself and its potential galactic-scale impact. I want the gamers to have this awesome perspective handed to them in a game. And then let them decide how to interpret it.'' 
 The idea of a video game's tackling such complex subject matter may strike some readers as surprising, but in truth staggeringly complex games have long appeared prominently on the gaming best-seller lists. One of the most lucrative franchises in the history of computer games is the Civilization series, which lets players recreate the entire course of human economic and technological history, experimenting with different political and legal systems, exploring alternate time lines of scientific development. The collaborative worlds of hugely popular, networked online games like World of Warcraft have evolved entire economies and social systems that mimic the complexity of small nation-states in the real world. Spore may be more ambitious in scope than these games, but its two most important innovations lie elsewhere: in its system for generating user-created creatures and in the way it allows players to share their creations with others. 
 Conventional game development follows a predictable pattern: the game designers decide which objects and characters will inhabit the world of the game, and then animators create computer models for those objects and characters, which are then inserted into a game in a fixed state -- an animation of Tiger Woods swinging a golf club or James Bond reaching for a gun or a character in the Sims taking out the trash. But Spore's open-ended approach to creature design fundamentally broke that system. Before I met with Wright, Spore's executive producer, Lucy Bradshaw, gave me a tour of the Spore studio and introduced me to a barefoot, speed-talking ''technology fellow'' named Chris Hecker, who had helped develop Spore's unique animation system. Hecker had a perfect one-liner for the technical hurdles the team faced: ''The question is, How do you do animations for things you've never seen before?'' 
 The solution Wright and his team hit upon revolves around something called ''procedural animation,'' a way for the game designer to model certain key behaviors -- walk, run, grab, fight -- without necessarily knowing anything about the basic body type of the creature itself. If you design a creature with five legs asymmetrically scattered around its body, the Spore animation engine will figure out how such a creature would walk. To demonstrate the adaptability of the system, Hecker pulled up a collection of a dozen Spore creatures on his monitor, each with a strikingly distinct body architecture. The initial image was comical enough: it looked as if the bizarre Cambrian-era fossils that Stephen Jay Gould wrote about in ''Wonderful Life'' had been reassembled for a police lineup. Some looked like slugs, some like spiders, some like extras from ''Where the Wild Things Are.''
 And then Hecker hit a key, and they all, miraculously, did a back flip, each in its own decidedly idiosyncratic way. 
 But surely, I asked, given the open-ended, no-two-creatures-alike nature of the editor, there are going to be some creatures that have body types that won't perform certain actions? Hecker and Bradshaw nodded emphatically. They know that a certain percentage of their users will be building creatures deliberately designed to foil the procedural animation system. Those creatures won't likely be ''fit'' in a traditional evolutionary sense, in that they will be less skilled at collecting food or avoiding predators. But they will be perversely satisfying to players keen on exploring the boundaries of the Spore architecture. Hecker pulled up a new lineup to demonstrate a clapping animation that included a creature whose cranium is so inconveniently located that clapping forces him to slap both his hands against the side of his head. It looked like slapstick comedy of the highest order -- vaudeville meets ''Monsters, Inc. ''
 ''Our philosophy is,'' Bradshaw said, ''if it's going to break, it should break funny.''
 The procedural approach has another fringe benefit, one that helped bring about Spore's other major innovation. Characters and objects can be compressed down to incredibly small files. An entire planet in Spore -- teeming with plants, weather and creatures -- takes up about 80K of memory. By comparison, a typical song on your iPod is about 50 times larger. You could download an entire galaxy of Spore planets before you could download all the tracks on ''Dark Side of the Moon.''
 That small file size is crucial to the way the game allows players to share their creations with other players in the Spore universe. As you work your way through the Spore levels, your creatures are automatically sent back to the central Spore file servers, where they are then used to populate the worlds of other players. This approach was directly inspired by Freeman Dyson's notion of Panspermia -- the idea that life on earth may have been seeded via meteors carrying microscopic ''spores'' of life from other planets. (Dyson's concept is also the origin of the game's title.) When you land on a new planet in the game's final stage, it may be teeming with multiple exotic species, all of whom have evolved separately on other computers around the world, guided by the tastes and imagination of complete strangers. But these creatures will, crucially, have lives of their own once they have found their ways onto your machine. They will not be controlled by other players as you interact with them on your screen. Once they have migrated to your computer, they will act autonomously, based on the procedural animation and artificial-intelligence algorithms of the Spore software. By the same token, the creatures that you have lovingly brought to life will spread throughout the alternate universes of other Spore players, struggling for existence on their own, independent from your direct control.
 In this respect, Spore breaks decisively from the fastest-growing genre in gaming today: the so-called massively multiplayer networked games -- like World of Warcraft -- where thousands of players share a single persistent virtual world, interacting with other players via their onscreen characters. (Interestingly, Wright's only foray into massively multiplayer design -- the online version of the Sims that launched in 2002 -- was a flop.) When you visit a bustling town center in a multiplayer game and see hundreds of characters sharing the space, you are intensely aware that each of these onscreen characters is being controlled from moment to moment by a live, sentient human somewhere in the real world. The social element is very much in the foreground of the experience. Spore flips that model on its head. Instead of a single shared world with millions of active participants, Spore promises a million alternate worlds, each occupied by a single player. You will meet creatures invented by others, but ultimately you are alone in your own private universe. Wright calls Spore ''massively single player.'' 
 It remains an open question whether this model will take hold with today's players, who are increasingly used to the social dimension of online play. ''I'm obviously biased toward the online worlds,'' Koster said, ''but the fact that I'll never encounter someone else's galactic empire that actually has some human brain behind it depresses me a little, because that would be awfully cool -- especially with the scope and scale we're talking about with Spore.''
 When you visit the Spore studio in Emeryville, the largest open room looks, at first glance, like a standard well-financed Bay Area software company: the double-height loft-ceilings, the bean-bag chairs slung around an oversize monitor, the barefoot employees. But the art strung up on the walls suggests that something different is being concocted here. There are beautiful renderings of imagined Spore planets that demonstrate the range of aesthetics possible in the game: a lush, organic world called Shittake Moon; a surreal globe called Crabclaw with landmasses shaped like giant crustaceans. Everyone's desk is populated by plastic action figures of Spore creatures, manufactured in-house by Wright's employees using a 3-D printer that can generate a physical toy in a matter of minutes from a computer model. (Electronic Arts is investigating the possibility of selling customized Spore critters in toy stores as a side business.) 
 As Bradshaw, the executive producer, gave me a tour of the office, I found myself being reminded of something, but for a few minutes I couldn't quite put my finger on it. And then it hit me: the general feel of the place reminded me of my son's kindergarten classroom, with its walls covered with renderings of imaginary worlds and creatures and its shelves filled with toys designed to teach and entertain at the same time. 
 When we finally made it up to his office, I asked Wright about the educational side of his game. ''The big underlying theme is creativity,'' he said. ''We want to prove to the players that they can make these really cool things that they never thought they could make. It's the computer as an amplifier of your imagination.'' Like all of Wright's games, Spore is likely to attract a broad range of age groups. A tech-savvy 7-year-old could easily obsess over the game, as could a mid-50's reader of Jared Diamond or E.O. Wilson.
 Of course, some of the content of Spore is fanciful. The ''DNA points'' that players accumulate have no real-world analogue, for instance, and thus far no one -- that we know of -- has been able to grow a life-sustaining environment on a lifeless planet. ''I've had a few people ask me if I think Spore will help teach evolution,'' Wright said, ''and the ironic thing is that, if anything, we're teaching intelligent design. I've seen a few games that relied on evolution -- I've even designed some of them -- and it's just not as fun.'' But, of course, there's one crucial way in which Spore breaks from intelligent design. The universe of the game is not dominated by a single, all-powerful creator. It's a universe governed by a million intelligent designers, each unleashing his or her creations to be fruitful and multiply, to conquer and befriend, to fly spaceships and fashion planets.
 Despite the fictions, many of the themes of Spore are immensely valuable ones, particularly in an age of environmental crisis: the fragility of life, the connection between micro- and macro- scales, the complex networks of ecosystems and food webs, the impact of new technology on social systems. Spore's players will get to experience firsthand how choices made on a local scale -- a single creature's decision to, say, adopt an omnivorous lifestyle -- can end up having global repercussions. They will detect similarities between one level of the game and another, the complex balancing act of global trade mirroring the complex balancing act of building a sustainable environment. And traveling through a simulated universe, from cells to constellations, will, ideally, make them more curious about the real-world universe they already inhabit -- and show them that they have the power to shape that universe as well. 
 ''What's very interesting about games,'' Eno said, ''is that they let you begin thinking about possibilities when you're young enough to incorporate them into your life. So I think a game that says to people, You can make things that then have independent lives, that's already quite an amazing idea. And then these things can interact with other people's objects -- that's quite a grown-up idea.'' 
 It occurred to me as I wandered through the halls of the Spore offices that a troubled school system could probably do far worse than to devote an entire, say, fourth-grade year to playing Spore. The kids would get a valuable perspective on their universe; they would learn technical skills and exercise their imaginations at the same time; they would learn about the responsibility that comes from creating independent life. And no doubt you would have to drag them out of the classrooms at the end of the day. When I mentioned this to Eno, he immediately chimed in agreement. ''I thought the same thing,'' he said. ''If you really want to reinvent education, look at games. They fold everything in: history, sociology, anthropology, chemistry -- you can piggyback everything on it. 
 ''But my wife made a good point when I was talking about this the other day. She says it's important for kids to do boring things too. Because if you can find excitement in something boring, then you're set up for life. Whereas if you constantly need entertainment, you might have a problem, because life is full of things that aren't entertaining. So I think I'd have three days of Spore and two days of obligatory Latin.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 22, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Oct. 8 about Will Wright, a video-game inventor, referred incorrectly to a filmmaking team who, like him, explored the ''long zoom,'' in which viewers' perspectives are examined from very far away to very close. Charles and Ray Eames were husband and wife, not brothers.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ways of Seeing: Will Wright designed Spore so that each level of the game would have a different aesthetic -- from the primitivism of anearly video game or action toy to the beauty of photographs from outer space.Drawing (Drawing by Melvin Galapon)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); TOYS & GAMES (89%); FILM (89%); COMPUTER GAMES (84%); HISTORY (78%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE FILMS (71%); GEOMETRY (68%) Computer and Video Games; Biographical Information

PERSON: Steven Johnson; Will Wright

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (77%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



170 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: October 8, 2006

 BODY:


	 	 	 			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	1	1	2	THE THIRTEENTH TALE, by Diane Setterfield. (Atria, $26.) A biographer struggles to discover the truth about an aging writer who has mythologized her past.		 	 	 	2	2	3	THE BOOK OF FATE, by Brad Meltzer. (Warner, $25.99.) The apparent murder of a presidential aide reveals Masonic secrets in Washington and a 200-year-old code invented by Thomas Jefferson.		 	 	 	3		1	THE MISSION SONG, by John le Carre. (Little, Brown, $26.99.) An English translator, born in Congo, is sent by British intelligence to work for a corporate syndicate that wants to subvert Congolese elections.		 	 	 	4	4	4	RISE AND SHINE, by Anna Quindlen. (Random House, $24.95.) The lives of two New York sisters, one the host of a television show and the other a social worker.		 	 	 	5	5	8	JUDGE & JURY, by James Patterson and Andrew Gross. (Little, Brown, $27.99.) An aspiring actress and an F.B.I. agent join forces against a powerful mobster.		 	 	 	6	8	3	THE GUY NOT TAKEN, by Jennifer Weiner. (Atria, $24.95.) Stories about women and relationships from the author of ''In Her Shoes.''		 	 	 	7		1	IMPERIUM, by Robert Harris. (Simon & Schuster, $26.) A fictional life of Marcus Cicero, the Roman statesman and orator, as told by a household slave.		 	 	 	8	3	2	THE MEPHISTO CLUB, by Tess Gerritsen. (Ballantine, $25.95.) A Boston medical examiner and a detective must solve a series of murders involving apocalyptic messages and a sinister cabal.		 	 	 	9	6	3	DARK CELEBRATION, by Christine Feehan. (Berkley, $23.95.) Carpathians from around the world join together to oppose their enemies' plot to kill all Carpathian women.		 	 	 	10	11	2	WORLD WAR Z, by Max Brooks. (Crown, $24.95.) An ''oral history'' of an imagined Zombie War that nearly destroys civilization.		 	 	 	11		1	THE RIGHT ATTITUDE TO RAIN, by Alexander McCall Smith. (Pantheon, $21.95.) The third novel featuring the philosopher Isabel Dalhousie is a mystery about the meaning of happiness.		 	 	 	12	9	4	THE EMPEROR'S CHILDREN, by Claire Messud. (Knopf, $25.) A group of privileged 30-somethings try to make their way in literary New York just before 9/11.		 	 	 	13	10	5	THE AFGHAN, by Frederick Forsyth. (Putnam, $26.95.) To foil a Qaeda plot, a British operative masquerades as a Taliban commander just released from Guantanamo.		 	 	 	14	7	6	RICOCHET, by Sandra Brown. (Simon & Schuster, $25.95.) A detective is attracted to a judge's wife who he suspects is not telling the truth about a fatal shooting.		 	 	 	15	12	2	A SPOT OF BOTHER, by Mark Haddon. (Doubleday, $24.95.) The world of a mild-mannered British family man falls apart; from the author of ''The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time.''		 	 	 			Weeks			 	 	 	This	Last	On			 	 	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	1	2	8	I FEEL BAD ABOUT MY NECK, by Nora Ephron. (Knopf, $19.95.) A witty look at aging from a novelist and screenwriter (''When Harry Met Sally'').		 	 	 	2		1	THE GREATEST STORY EVER SOLD, by Frank Rich. (Penguin, $25.95.) A Times columnist attacks the Bush administration's approach to message management.		 	 	 	3		1	THE CONFESSION, by James E. McGreevey. (Regan, $26.95.) The former New Jersey governor comes out.		 	 	 	4	1	49	MARLEY & ME, by John Grogan. (Morrow, $21.95.) A newspaper columnist and his wife learn some life lessons from their neurotic dog.		 	 	 	5	4	77	THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) A columnist for The Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy. 		 	 	 	6	5	5	STATE OF EMERGENCY, by Patrick J. Buchanan. (Thomas Dunne/St. Martin's, $24.95.) The conservative commentator argues against unchecked immigration.		 	 	 	7		1	LETTER TO A CHRISTIAN NATION, by Sam Harris. (Knopf, $16.95.) The author of ''The End of Faith'' responds to Christians' arguments in defense of their beliefs.		 	 	 	8		1	I SHOULDN'T EVEN BE DOING THIS! by Bob Newhart. (Hyperion, $23.95.) A memoir by the comedian.		 	 	 	9	6	76	FREAKONOMICs, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $25.95.) A maverick scholar and a journalist apply economic theory to almost everything.		 	 	 	10	3	7	THE LOOMING TOWER, by Lawrence Wright. (Knopf, $27.95.) The road to 9/11 as seen through the lives of terrorist planners and the F.B.I. counterterrorism chief who died in the attacks.		 	 	 	11		1	THE GOD DELUSION, by Richard Dawkins. (Houghton Mifflin, $27.) An Oxford scientist asserts that belief in God is irrational and that religion has done great harm in the world.		 	 	 	12	8	2	HUBRIS, by Michael Isikoff and David Corn. (Crown, $25.95.) The planning and marketing of the invasion of Iraq, featuring the president, administration officials, neoconservatives, Iraqi exiles and credulous journalists.		 	 	 	13	7	9	FIASCO, by Thomas E. Ricks. (Penguin Press, $27.95.) How the Bush administration's and the military's failure to understand the developing Iraqi insurgency contributed to its further growth.		 	 	 	14		1	AIR AMERICA: THE PLAYBOOK, by David Bender, Chuck D, Thom Hartmann et al. (Rodale, $26.95.) Essays, transcripts and interviews from ''a bunch of left-wing media types.''		 	 	 	15	9	2	THE WAY WE WERE, by Paul Burrell. (Morrow, $25.95.) Diana's former butler reminisces.		 	 	 	16*		1	THE LOST, by Daniel Mendelsohn. (HarperCollins, $27.95.) A critic tracks down the story of a great-uncle and his family, who were killed in the Holocaust.		 	 	 	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Sept. 23, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

Editors' Choice
 Other recent books of particular interest

THE UNITED STATES OF ARUGULA: How We Became a Gourmet Nation, by David Kamp. (Broadway, $26.) Personalities from Julia Child to Emeril Lagasse drive this history of the postwar revolution in American gastronomy.
 HALF OF A YELLOW SUN, by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie. (Knopf, $24.95.) A novel about sisters caught in the horrors of the Biafran War. 
 THE ODE LESS TRAVELLED: UNLOCKING THE POET WITHIN, by Stephen Fry. (Gotham, $25.) An idiosyncratic yet practical guide to prosody. 
 THE PRODUCER: John Hammond and the Soul of American Music, by Dunstan Prial. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.) The 50-year career of Columbia Records' influential talent spotter. 
 THE UNYIELDING CLAMOR OF THE NIGHT, by Neil Bissoondath. (Bloomsbury, $24.95.) This novel's idealistic hero takes a teaching job in a poor Southeast Asian village threatened by rebels.
 A COMMONWEALTH OF THIEVES: THE IMPROBABLE BIRTH OF AUSTRALIA, by Thomas Keneally. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $26.95.) The country's beginnings as a British penal colony.
 IN THE WAKE, by Per Petterson. Translated by Anne Born. (Thomas Dunne/St. Martin's, $22.95.) A Norwegian circles around the memory of his parents' accidental deaths in this spare novel.
 COLLEGE GIRLS: Bluestockings, Sex Kittens, and Coeds, Then and Now, by Lynn Peril. (Norton, paper, $16.95.) A pop-culture history. 
 iWOZ: Computer Geek to Cult Icon, by Steve Wozniak with Gina Smith. (Norton, $25.95.) The life story of the Apple co-founder and designer of the revolutionary Apple I and Apple II, told in a style that reflects his inventive, restless mind.
 PIANO: The Making of a Steinway Concert Grand, by James Barron. (Times Books/Henry Holt, $24.) Barron bears witness to the construction and early career of a single Steinway, CD-60.
 THE SHAPE OF THINGS TO COME: Prophecy and the American Voice, by Greil Marcus. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $25.) A cultural critic finds the country's soothsayers in unexpected places. 
 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); MURDER (89%); LITERATURE (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); HISTORY (77%); ORGANIZED CRIME (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (71%); SHOOTINGS (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); FAMILY (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); JURY TRIALS (68%); TALIBAN (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

PERSON: JAMES PATTERSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HIMACHAL PRADESH, INDIA (56%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



171 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: In Praise of a Retractable Goddess

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
IN Greek mythology, Eos was the supernaturally beautiful goddess of the dawn, the brightest star in the morning sky. She was also a bit of a tramp, and had many lovers.
 In choosing Eos as the name for its shapely new coupe-cabriolet, Volkswagen was no doubt alluding to how the car's retracting hardtop heralds the sun. VW is also hoping this enticing car seduces a lot of lovers -- at least 12,000 a year.
The Eos 2.0T test car certainly caught my eye with its sinuous, voluptuous lines; its sultry, deep Red Pepper paint; and its supple, embracing Corn Silk Beige leather seats. But the thing that said, ''Marry me!'' was its window sticker: $30,620 nicely equipped. That's roughly the same price as the far less appealing Pontiac G6 convertible, and about $17,000 less than a full-zoot Volvo C70. 
 After so many years of doing so many things so wrong -- especially in its seeming disdain for and neglect of the American market -- Volkswagen at long last shows signs that it is finding its way. With the recent introduction of a frisky new Rabbit, an energetic GTI, a redesigned Passat and the clever Eos -- not to mention rumored, potentially more alluring models like a Scirocco sport coupe -- VW seems serious again about selling cars to Americans. That has to be bad news for the charisma-challenged automakers based in Detroit.
 When the Eos made its debut last year at the Frankfurt auto show, I fully expected the Department of Homeland Security to ban the car here as a threat to domestic tranquillity. This is the type of desirable foreign exotic that, for whatever mysterious reason, seldom finds its way across the Atlantic. A case in point is the new Focus coupe with a retracting hardtop, which the Ford Motor Company inexplicably refuses to sell outside of Europe. If such models do show up here, they tend to arrive dumbed-down, overpriced or both.
 VW offers a stripped-down base Eos with a manual transmission only, for $28,620. But in 2.0T trim the car is a complete package, fully realized and ready to ramble. Both the base and 2.0T have a silky smooth 2-liter turbocharged four-cylinder engine that produces more than ample (200) horsepower. Although I spent much of my too-short time in the car flubbing the interaction between the hair-trigger clutch and the very close-pattern shifter, the six-speed manual transmission itself is well geared. 
 This is an economical package too, with an average E.P.A. highway rating of 32 m.p.g. on the highway and 23 m.p.g. in town. For those who do not enjoy rowing their own boat, VW's six-speed direct shift gearbox, with Tiptronic manual control, is $1,075 extra. A 3.2-liter V-6 will be available later this year, driving the price up another $3,000 or so. 
 The bigger power plant will produce 250 horsepower, which seems like overkill in a car like this. The base engine and transmission configuration will easily propel the Eos from a standstill to 60 m.p.h. in just 6.4 seconds, according to testing by Car and Driver magazine.
 Not only fast in a straight line, the Eos tames corners well for a 3,500-pound convertible. (That's about 500 pounds more than a Rabbit.) Much of that stability is courtesy of a capable multilink independent rear suspension. Expanded front and rear tracks also increase lateral stability. The steering is spot-on precise. 
 The Eos is slotted in Volkswagen's lineup in the tight space between the Rabbit (known as the Golf elsewhere in the world) and the Passat. It shares most of its components, thankfully, with a bias toward the upscale Passat. At a length of about 173 inches, the Eos is about 10 inches longer than a Rabbit and about 15 shorter than a Passat. (For comparison's sake, the G6 convertible is 189 inches long and the C70 is 180).
 To neutralize the loss of torsional rigidity inherent in any convertible, VW engineers cleverly took the basket-handle roll bar of the VW Cabrio, inverted it and placed it under the rear seat pedestal. A beefed-up windshield frame of hot-stamped ultra-high-strength steel is connected directly to the floor pan's reinforced frame rails. Steel tubing provides more stiffness behind the doors for an extra layer of safety. Partly as a consequence, rear seat passengers have about 10 inches less shoulder room than in the smaller Rabbit. 
 Over all, two adults can survive the back seat, assuming that those in front are considerate enough to move forward a bit. It also helps if you are less than 5-foot-10. Still, engaging the Eos's signature feature -- its retractable hardtop -- will end all grousing about a lack of headroom. 
 The Eos's raison d'etre is its five-panel retractable roof structure. With the top up, there's a push-back sunshade that reveals a tinted glass-panel roof section almost generous enough to make you forget the need for a convertible. But at the touch of a switch, the whole structure effortlessly stacks out of sight under the rear deck. Somehow, with the top down there is still 6.6 cubic feet of trunk space -- that's enough for about one roll-on suitcase. The trunk expands to 10.5 cubic feet with the top up.
 Carefully designed wind baffles atop the windshield bar keep the cockpit enjoyably calm during top-down motoring. In a rollover, pyrotechnic roll bars and curtain-style air bags deploy instantly.
 The only caveat here is VW's dodgy reputation for quality and reliability in recent years, particularly for its new models. But Wolfgang Bernhard, chairman of the Volkswagen brand, has staked his reputation -- and probably his job -- on drastic and immediate improvements. If he is successful, Eos could indeed herald the dawn of a new day for VW.

INSIDE TRACK: Good morning. This is Eos with your wake-up call.


GRAPHIC: Photos (pg. 1)Graph ''4-Seat Retractable Hardtop Convertibles'' tracks specifications for the following:LEXUS SC 430PONTIAC G6 GTVOLKSWAGEN EOS 2.0TVOLVO C70(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MYTHOLOGY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); NEW CAR MODELS (77%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); BOATING & RAFTING (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (50%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (50%) Automobiles; Reviews 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Volkswagen Ag

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%)

PERSON: Jerry Garrett

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (68%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (53%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (68%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



172 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; POSTINGS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: A New Condominium With a Familiar Ring

BYLINE: By JEFF VANDAM

 BODY:
DEEP within a triangle of Downtown Brooklyn surrounded by the Fulton Mall, Flatbush Avenue and the MetroTech Center, the latest conversion of an iconic skyscraper into residential units is taking place. Less well-known than the Williamsburgh Savings Bank tower, which is being converted just a few blocks away, the former New York Telephone Company building on Bridge Street is at 27 stories no less impressive in its Art Deco grace. 
 The building, now called the BellTel Lofts, gets its new name from a wrought-iron facade hanging over its Bridge Street entrance, which still tags it as the Bell Telephone Company. The structure also bears other signs indicating a later role as an outpost of Verizon Communications, though its innards are quickly being transformed. Sales will start in the coming week, and by next spring, there will be 219 residential units. Prices per unit will range from $500,000 to $2 million.
The area around the building, one of the last sections of this part of Brooklyn to see major development, is a study in contrasts, with wig shops, driving schools and stores like Eyebrow Zone around the corner from the tranquil, tree-filled quiet of the MetroTech. Because several of the surrounding streets are closed to traffic, life at the BellTel Lofts may be more serene than the otherwise busy environs.
 ''While you're sitting here in the middle of Downtown Brooklyn, you don't have all the noise you would normally have in Downtown Brooklyn,'' said David Bistricer, the developer of the building. He pointed out that the MetroTech Business Improvement District maintains sanitation and security services in the area. 
 Inside, the building's conversion has been assigned to Beyer Blinder Belle, the architectural firm that renovated Grand Central Terminal for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. Units will range from studios to three-bedrooms, and judging from model units being completed, ceilings will be 11 feet tall, floors made of bamboo, kitchens open and windows large. Verizon will equip each apartment with fiber-optic cables. 
 In addition to ground-floor retail spaces, the building will include expansive dual roof decks on the 19th floor, with views of the Statue of Liberty, Grand Army Plaza, New York Harbor and nearly everything else in the immediate area.
 At the tower's base, residents will have access to separate rooms for fitness, yoga and office activities. 
 On the roof deck, Mr. Bistricer talked of investment in Downtown Brooklyn as a smart buy, considering the high prices in nearly every other surrounding area. But more development is coming soon, he said, pointing toward a parking lot on Duffield Street that was being readied for construction. ''That's a sign,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); CITIES (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (73%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (70%); FIBER OPTICS (69%); YOGA (60%) Housing; Condominiums; New York Telephone Co Building (NYC); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Lofts

COMPANY: VERIZON NEW YORK INC (72%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); BEYER BLINDER BELLE (53%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (53%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: Jeff Vandam

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Brooklyn (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



173 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 3; Real Estate Desk; POSTINGS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: A Forlorn Neighborhood Revitalized

BYLINE: By DAVID SCHARFENBERG

 BODY:
THE Denison-White mansion, in the Longwood section of the Bronx, retains little of its original grandeur.
 Built around 1850 by Charles Denison, a Manhattan merchant, and later occupied by Samuel White, his son-in-law, the long-abandoned property is covered in graffiti and surrounded by empty soda bottles and rusty spray paint canisters. 
But it seems a rebirth is imminent.
 Friends in the City Inc. and the Lantern Group, both Manhattan-based nonprofit developers of affordable housing, are teaming up to restore the Denison-White residence, turn it into a community center and build 95 apartments -- 93 of them categorized as affordable.
 The planned $28 million renovation and reuse of the property, which served as a real estate office, social club and Police Athletic League center at various points in its history, has been enough to pique the interest of neighbors and affordable-housing advocates in this blue-collar neighborhood.
 But the development, to be called Cedars, is perhaps most notable for its focus on a demographic increasingly known as the ''grandfamily'': grandparents (or other older relatives) raising grandchildren.
 While the bulk of Cedars apartments will be rented to low-income people 55 and older, the developers intend to reserve 28 units for generation-skipping families. 
 This will place the project on the leading edge of a nationwide trend. With 2.4 million grandparents serving as the primary caretakers of their grandchildren across the country, according to census data, a growing number of developers and municipalities are building housing aimed specifically at grandfamilies.
 Donna M. Butts, executive director of Generations United, a Washington-based group that promotes intergenerational programs and policies, said that so far there were eight grandfamily developments across the country -- one each in Baltimore, Boston, Buffalo, Baton Rouge, Chicago, Las Vegas, New Haven and the Morrisania section of the Bronx.
 Dorothy Jenkins, 76, a resident of the Morrisania development, called GrandParentFamily Apartments, took in three of her seven grandchildren when a daughter died of a brain aneurism in 1993. ''Let me tell you,'' she said, ''it wasn't easy.''
 But Ms. Jenkins, a retired embroiderer and union official, said she had found solace in a support group at GrandParentFamily, which opened in June 2005. 
 Carol Jackson, project manager at the Lantern Group, said that Cedars, scheduled to break ground next month, will have safety features like grab bars in the bathrooms and soft carpeting in the hallways.
 The development -- financed by private donations, grants, loans and $18.8 million in financing from the New York City Housing Development Corporation -- will also provide counseling, after-school programs and other supports, she said.
 And in a forlorn corner of the Bronx, there will be something vital again. ''These families are dedicated to staying together,'' Ms. Jackson said. ''There is something there that is the core of a very strong relationship that should be preserved.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: RETURNING GRANDEUR -- A derelict mansion in the Bronx is to anchor an affordable-housing complex, shown in a rendering below. (Photo by Urban Architectural Initiatives)
 (Photo by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); GRANDPARENTS (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); FAMILY (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CHILDREN (88%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); TRENDS (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); POOR POPULATION (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (69%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (65%); EXECUTIVES (63%); CENSUS (52%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (50%) Housing; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Families and Family Life; Housing

ORGANIZATION: Friends in the City Inc; Lantern Group

PERSON: David Scharfenberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



174 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: A New ARM With Built-In Limits

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
MILLIONS of homeowners have in recent months shifted gears with their mortgages, opting out of adjustable-rate loans to avoid facing the prospect that their interest rates will jump into the stratosphere.
 But not all adjustable-rate mortgages, or ARM's, are quite so risky. In fact, some analysts believe that new ARM's with less downside risk could be imminent.
If such a trend does emerge, analysts said, the New York Mortgage Company could spearhead it. In August, the company, a subsidiary of New York Mortgage Trust, began marketing an ARM that offers borrowers long-term protection against interest-rate increases, while still allowing them to benefit from decreases. 
 The company's Homeowner Protection ARM is a 30-year loan with an interest rate that starts at 6.5 percent, then resets monthly according to the London Interbank Offered Rate, a short-term interest-rate index. But unlike most ARM's, whose interest rates can rise to a maximum of about 13 percent, the Homeowner Protection ARM has a maximum annual percentage rate of about 7 percent for the first 10 years.
 Should the London Interbank index drop, though, the interest rate on the loan would do the same, down to a floor of 4 percent. After 10 years, the interest rate ceiling would rise to 10 percent.
 Analysts say the Homeowner Protection ARM is unusual, if not unique, in the marketplace. 
 ''I've not seen anything like it,'' said Paul Miller, an analyst at the Friedman, Billings, Ramsey Group Inc., an investment company in Arlington, Va. ''It's a great loan. I'd think there'll be a big market for it.''
 Mr. Miller says ARM borrowers typically refinance their loans every three to five years to manage their financial risk. ''They're always making the bet that rates will be lower a couple years down the road,'' he said. ''But with this, you can basically get a fixed-rate loan and still make the bet that rates will fall.''
 Avoiding the refinancing process is significant, said Steven DeLaney, an analyst with Flagstone Securities, based in St. Louis. Mr. DeLaney said interest rates on the Homeowner Protection ARM will run about a quarter-percentage point higher than standard ARM's. ''But if you're in another ARM and you have to refinance, a big part of that cost isn't tax-deductible,'' he said. ''If you're in the 40 percent tax bracket, that's a big deal.''
 Mr. DeLaney predicted that other lenders would soon offer similar products. ''Three, four months from now, we'll see more of these,'' he said. ''Over time, it's going to catch on.''
 Similar products do exist, industry executives said, but only in the second-mortgage market. One example is the home-equity line of credit offered by National City Home Equity, a division of National City Bank in Cleveland. With it, borrowers can take a loan for up to $100,000 against the value of their home, with the interest rate fluctuating in accordance with the prime rate.
 For a $50 fee, National City allows borrowers to convert parts of their debt into fixed-rate loans, at rates slightly higher than those for 30-year fixed mortgages. If short-term interest rates drop, borrowers can convert the loan again to an adjustable rate at no charge.
 E. Kennedy Carter, an executive vice president of National City Home Equity, says other lenders offer similar products, but typically with limits on how much, and how frequently, borrowers can convert to fixed rates.
 With the increase in short-term interest rates, he said, National City has seen a commensurate increase in inquiries about this product. ''It's a good way to manage your finances,'' Mr. Carter said, ''without having to get a new loan every time you want to refinance your second mortgage.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (98%); ECONOMIC NEWS (98%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); INTERBANK LENDING (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%) Housing; Mortgages

COMPANY: ARLINGTON ASSET INVESTMENT CORP (66%); NEW YORK MORTGAGE TRUST INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: New York Mortgage Co

TICKER: AI (NYSE) (66%); NYMT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (66%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (57%)

PERSON: Bob Tedeschi

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (54%) MISSOURI, USA (54%); VIRGINIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



175 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 5; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1887 words

HEADLINE: The Farewell Tour

BYLINE: By RALPH GARDNER JR.

 BODY:
DIANE McWHORTER was visiting colleges down South with her daughter Lucy, a high school senior, while listening to the Pixies song, ''Hey,'' on the car's CD player. It's a song whose chorus repeats the lyrics ''We're chained'' 17 times.
 ''Lucy said, 'If I were making a movie, I'd definitely put this song on the soundtrack,' '' Ms. McWhorter recalled. '''It would be right before the character is about to commit suicide.'''
Ms. McWhorter was having the same disturbing thoughts. ''Here's a little moment of mother-daughter telepathy,'' she said proudly. 
 Obviously, the two New Yorkers had been together in the car for too long. But the song and the ride served its purpose: not to help Lucy decide where she wants to go to college next year -- that's the icing on the cake -- but as an opportunity for Ms. McWhorter, however idiosyncratically, to bond with her teenager.
 ''I found it very moving,'' Ms. McWhorter said of the trip. ''It's a concrete version of a rite of passage.''
 Ms. McWhorter, the Pulitzer-winning author of ''Carry Me Home,'' about the civil rights struggle in her hometown, Birmingham, Ala., added: ''Usually, you only realize these things in retrospect. It's a rite of passage in real time.''
 Back when Baby Boomers were applying to college, it wasn't unusual to see the school where you would be spending the next four years of your life for the first time when your parents pulled the packed family station wagon up to your freshman dorm. But for this generation of parents and teenagers, the road trip to find the perfect college has become as integral to the admissions process as acing the SAT's or hitting up well-connected friends for letters of recommendation.
 For many families, though, the treks are also an opportunity for adventure and some last-minute quality time. In an often painless, occasionally profound way, and across miles of road and hours of conversation, the college tour allows parents to come to terms with the fact that their teenager's childhood is ending, and that, against all odds, the kid may just be able to survive on his or her own.
 ''The college tour is a metaphor for saying goodbye to your kid,'' said Martin Tandler, who this summer traveled the Middlebury-Dartmouth College axis with his daughter Katherine, a senior at the Spence School in New York. ''You're going on separate journeys from here on out.''
 Central to this ritual is not so much arriving at one's destination as traveling there. The drive often embodies elements of Kerouac's ''On The Road'' and National Lampoon's ''Vacation'': meals at fancy and not-so-fancy restaurants and college cafeterias; dumpy motels and quaint bed-and-breakfasts; too many wrong turns and the occasional fender bender. Not to mention the silent praying that a state trooper won't catch your teenager behind the wheel on the Interstate with only a learner's permit. 
 These voyages are not always unalloyed love fests. Teenagers are known to be moody. And parents have a knack for picking the most inopportune moments to bring up their children's shortcomings or bug them about that uncompleted college application personal essay. 
 But the chance to spend several uninterrupted hours in a car with your adolescent, with whom you may not have exchanged a thousand words over the last four years, does help to reacquaint the two of you. 
 ''When the kids are small, the important conversations start before bedtime,'' said Jenny Elmlinger of New York, the mother of a high school senior. ''But when they get older and go to bed after you do, the moments the kids feel like talking are at inconvenient times.''
 When Ms. McWhorter thinks of her college trip with Lucy, she thinks of their near-death experience in Charlottesville, Va., when she made a U-turn and they were almost hit by another car. But she also remembers the trip's soundtrack, a result of spirited negotiation. ''I said: 'I'm driving. If I'm irritated by the music we won't be safe.' ''
 Nonetheless, Lucy managed to make known her misgivings about some of the greatest hits of her mother's youth. ''We were listening to David Bowie,'' Ms. McWhorter recalled, specifically to ''Space Oddity,'' the song about Major Tom. ''I never realized how stupid the words were until I heard my daughter do it in this hyper-articulated English accent.''
 According to the National Association for College Admission Counseling, 74 percent of colleges and universities reported an increase in campus visits in 2005 over 2004. Hamilton, a liberal arts college in Clinton, N.Y., experienced a 36 percent jump this summer over last. Visits to Middlebury College in Vermont rose by 40 percent over the same period last year. 
 Robert Mitchell, a Harvard spokesman, said that this summer more than 1,000 prospective applicants and their families a day could be seen wending their way through the campus on the undergraduate admissions tours. ''Ten years ago that was unheard of,'' he said.
 The tours, taken over spring and summer breaks and on long weekends during junior and senior year, can include 20 or more colleges, and often involve Southern, Midwest and West Coast swings. 
 Emily Cohen of New York, a television executive, said her trip to Carleton College in Northfield, Minn., with her daughter Molly, a high school senior, was also an opportunity to visit the nearby Mall of America. 
 ''All of our trips revolve around food and shopping,'' she said, adding that they picked their lodgings based on which offered a free buffet breakfast, a shared interest. Dining at college cafeterias using discount coupons supplied by the admissions office is also part of the adventure. 
 Over all, Ms. Cohen said, ''I've seen a lot of her with her iPod. Equally as much there has been a free-association conversation. The other key is, we don't have to look at each other if I'm driving. It removes some of the conflict enhancers.'' 
 At least one moment lingers with both mother and daughter: the day they spotted a moose through the pouring rain on their way to visit colleges in Maine.
 ''I always wanted to see a moose,'' Ms. Cohen said. ''It was on my list of things to do before I died. I was focusing really hard and saw this enormous thing on the side of the road, approaching the car. I screamed really loud, 'Molly, this is it! We're seeing a moose!' She shot up and we're screaming, 'We saw a moose!' ''
 In retelling the tale, Molly was slightly more reserved. ''When she told me, I was asleep with the seat back,'' Molly remembered. ''She starts hitting, almost smacking me. When I think of the trip to Maine, it is more the moose than the colleges.''
 Ostensibly, though, choosing a college is the reason for the trips. College officials and parents said there are several reasons families are making more visits: the greater involvement of this generation of parents in the lives of children; the suspect belief that where you go to college is crucial to surviving in an economically volatile world; and the cutthroat competitiveness of the admissions process which makes choices and strategy so important.
 And then, some parents and counselors said, there's the not-insignificant matter of tuition. It only seems fair that parents have the opportunity to see the schools that will be helping them go broke. 
 ''If you are going to plunk down $150,000, that's like buying a house,'' said Patty Kovacs, a college counselor at the University of Chicago Laboratory High School. ''You're not going to want to plunk down all that money without looking at the kitchen.''
 But both parents and students said the bonding that occurs while checking out the bulletin boards in the student union and critiquing the student tour guides was definitely a bonus. 
 Kenley Stark of New York, a high school senior, said that the distressing accommodations on some of their college trips -- a decidedly unaesthetic motel on a visit to Cornell and a room over a saloon on a tour of Western Pennsylvania colleges -- brought her and her mother, Anne, closer. And when they both realized they preferred country colleges, Kenley learned something more: ''We're a lot more similar than I ever realized,'' she said.
 Stewart Cutler thinks the tour's road-trip aspect deepened his relationship with his daughter Ginger, 18, who drove more than a thousand miles on her learner's permit. ''Her driving was excellent,'' said Mr. Cutler, an investment banker. ''I was able to work clicking along on my BlackBerry and taking conference calls. It was truly a partnership effort.''
 Evan Graff, a senior at Laboratory High School, and his parents turned his college tour into a birdwatching expedition -- a ploy his father devised to get Evan, a nature photographer, to Washington University in St. Louis, where the Eurasian tree sparrow is a local resident. On the Maine leg of their trip they spotted the even rarer Western reef heron -- which, like them, was just visiting. 
 Nancy Lerman, Evan's mother, hopes the heron sighting bodes well for his prospects of getting into Bowdoin College. ''We were going: 'This is like fate. It's a good sign, a convergence,' '' Ms. Lerman said. 
 Tom Likovich of Bronxville, N.Y., who was at Hamilton College with his wife, Ellen, and daughter, Alex, on a recent weekend morning, said the visits were a lesson in letting his daughter call the shots. Alex has forbidden him to ask questions during information sessions without vetting them with her first. This after clunkers like, ''What do you guys do for fun on Saturday night?''
 Alex had been mortified the previous day when, on a tour of Colgate, Tom, a former University of Colorado football player, tried to engage in some light male banter with the football team. 
 Those are not the only dicey moments. Perhaps most delicate of all is the visit to a parent's alma mater. 
 Ms. Cohen said that Molly put off a visit to Vassar -- which she and her husband, Tom Philip, attended -- as long as possible. ''We have always talked about Vassar with such love and endearment,'' Ms. Cohen said. ''That loomed large over her. She pushed it off until the last possible moment. Ten minutes into the tour she turned to me and said, 'I hate the fact that I like it.' ''
 Parents quickly learn to roll with the punches. Their children's reactions to particular colleges -- hating one, loving another -- is often based on the most subjective details: the souvenirs in the campus store, the smoothie bar in the student union, the perceived dress code, whether the tour guide was too weird or not weird enough. ''Molly liked Bucknell,'' Ms. Cohen said, ''but she thought everyone was very Abercrombie.'' 
 Pamela Awad of New York, whose daughter attends New York University, said the best guidance she received -- ''bite your tongue'' -- came from a mother who had done the college tour the year before. 
 ''They get out of the car,'' Ms. Awad recalled the woman telling her of a several-hour road trip to Colgate University, ''and her son said, 'I will not go to a school on a hill,' '' thus eliminating perhaps half the liberal arts colleges in the nation. ''So she got back in the car, and they left.''
 Ms. Awad recalled that sage advice when her own daughter spotted a student in Birkenstocks on their way to the admissions office at Swarthmore. ''She wouldn't even go on the tour,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: CHECK IT OUT -- Top, Molly Philip and her mother, Emily Cohen, of New York, take in Tufts in Medford, Mass. Above left, Clair Cassiello, center, and her mother, Nancy, after a visit to Hamilton in Clinton, N.Y. At Skidmore in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., from left, students Chris Bendann and Marta Trawicki give the lowdown to Samantha Heberton and her father, Craig, of Ridgefield, Conn. (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times)
(Photo by Kevin Rivoli for The New York Times)
(Photo by Stewart Cairns for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
PICTURE YOURSELF HERE -- Chris Bendann gives a tour of Skidmore to, from left, Craig Heberton and his daughter, Samantha, of Ridgefield, Conn., and Peggy Cohee and Nora Baynes, her daughter, of Port Jefferson, N.Y. (Photo by Stewart Cairns for The New York Times)
 AND TO YOUR LEFT -- A tour group is escorted past the chapel on the campus of Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y. (Photo by Kevin Rivoli for The New York Times)(pg. 14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); CHILDREN (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); MOVIE SOUNDTRACKS (77%); PARENTING (75%); STUDENT HOUSING (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); CD & DVD DRIVES (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); BABY BOOMERS (69%); WRITERS (65%); SUICIDE (55%); CIVIL RIGHTS (50%) Colleges and Universities; Families and Family Life; Children and Youth

PERSON: Ralph Jr Gardner

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



176 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1433 words

HEADLINE: With This EBay Sale, I Thee Divorce

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK; Paula Schwartz contributed reporting.

 BODY:
GABRIELLE TORELLO drowned her wedding band -- the cheap one -- in the Hudson River, stuffed the diamond rings and earrings her ex-husband had given her into a pair of old shoes at the bottom of her closet, and treated herself to some commemorative sparkle, like the ring she bought when she survived her first court date.
 ''It makes me very happy every time I wear it,'' said Ms. Torello, a communications consultant in Hackensack, N.J. ''It was such a bad time that I don't want to wear anything from that period in my life. I really wanted a new beginning.''
Jay Johnson, upon discovering that his girlfriend was two-timing him with one of his friends, simply packed everything she had given him -- all the letters and boudoir pictures and sappy sentiments -- into a box and mailed them to his rival with a note that said, ''Good luck, Dave.'' 
 ''Hopefully, he gleaned something,'' said Mr. Johnson, a ventriloquist whose show, ''The Two and Only!'' just opened on Broadway. ''I know that they weren't together all that long.''
 And then there is Ellen Barkin, who on Tuesday will unload some $15 million worth of possessions at Christie's, the detritus from her marriage to Ronald O. Perelman, in a move that may strike some as coldly pragmatic.
 Still, when it comes to divorce, as the celebrity divorce lawyer Raoul Felder pointed out: ''Sentiment goes out on the courthouse steps. Sentiment is yesterday's news.''
 In an age of unparalleled acquisitiveness, the quandary of what to do with the accumulated belongings of a relationship has become a predictable ingredient in the noxious stew of separation and recovery. Do you erase all traces of a love gone wrong, or recreate yourself within the debris? 
 ''How acrimonious the divorce is -- that's probably the first issue that plays into the decision of whether to purge or not,'' said Anya K. Luchow, a divorce mediator and psychologist in Tenafly, N.J. ''The second is what their basic personality style is, divorce aside. Finally, economics are a big function in divorce. It's easier for someone of wealth to part with objects they don't need for survival.''
 In other words, she said, ''there is no rule.''
 ''I see it as an issue of control, especially for people who are being left,'' she added. ''For them in particular, dealing with the mementos is a way to gain some sort of control over a situation that, until now, has been beyond their control.''
 That often includes a detoxification of that symbolic marital nest, the bedroom.
 ''The mattress and the sheets are the first to go,'' Ms. Luchow said.
 Some people will continue to divest their homes of furniture, artwork and photographs until nothing remains of the people responsible for their misery.
 ''I certainly don't recommend doing that when a child is involved,'' Ms. Luchow said. ''I try to help people remember that as angry as they are and as much as it's not working now, they need to hold on to some of the nice memories they have for the children's sake.''
 Marla Maples kept her daughter, Tiffany, in mind when she rid her life of certain objects given her by Tiffany's father, Donald J. Trump.
 ''I did sell my engagement ring through an auction, and I donated a big part of it to my charity, Spirituality for Kids,'' Ms. Maples said. ''It was a big decision, because, of course, having a daughter, I wanted to make sure she was O.K. with it.''
 Ms. Maples also put a sports car and a fur coat on the block at eBay, but she kept the wedding album, some family portraits and a stash of tender letters.
 ''I spent a third of my life with him at the time, so it carried a lot of weight,'' she said. ''I feel like it will be Tiffany's choice later on to decide what she wants to hold on to of Mom and Dad.''
 In ''The Ex-Wives Club,'' a makeover series for those left in the lurch, coming to ABC this winter, Ms. Maples will dispense her hard-won advice alongside Shar Jackson, who was dumped by her boyfriend Kevin Federline for Britney Spears, and Angie Everhart, who was engaged to Sylvester Stallone for two months and married to Ashley Hamilton for three.
 Auction houses have traditionally been the refuge for those suffering from what John L. Marion, a former chairman of Sotheby's North America, called the Three D's: division, divorce and death.
 But the equation works well only for women like Ms. Barkin and Ms. Maples, whose wealthy husbands bought major adornments for them, said Mr. Felder, the divorce lawyer. And even they don't get an even trade. 
 ''With the jewelry, there's always a rude awakening, because the Van Cleef diamond ring, when you want to sell it back to the store, is worth 25 percent of what your husband paid,'' Mr. Felder said.
 ''It's fair to say when there's an important jewelry collection,'' he said later, ''most women get rid of it because it usually represents a considerable amount of money that they can use to get on with their lives.'' 
 The fashion designer Anait Bian didn't want to wear the diamond ring an old boyfriend bought for her during a trip to Paris, but she didn't want to sell it either.
 Then one day Ms. Bian's mother brought a fortuneteller to her house in New York. ''She said: 'You have to look around you. Something in your house been given to you, and it's got bad energy,' '' Ms. Bian recalled.
 Despite her certainty that the woman was a scam artist, Ms. Bian handed over the ring.
 Alas, the fortuneteller called several days later and said the ring was so tainted she had had to purge it herself. 
 ''I thought it was an interesting way of getting rid of it,'' Ms. Bian said. ''I thought that if she had brought it back, it was meant to be mine. Then I could wear it without any doubt.''
 Sometimes the universe has a way of telling you that something is over even before you realize it yourself.
 Only weeks before Gail Greiner and her husband separated, she returned home to find that a shelf in her cupboard had collapsed, leaving her wedding china smashed on the floor.
 ''My son, poor guy, went about trying to salvage it and talked about how we could glue pieces together,'' said Ms. Greiner, a writer and editor in Palisades, N.Y. ''But I found that with the demise of my marriage came the end of my sentimental feelings about a lot of things, including my wedding china. I swept it up and put it in the garbage, telling my son that it was just 'things' and not that important. As soon as he saw that I was O.K. about it, he was, too.''
 Still, there are those who manage to move on alongside certain reminders of the past. When the publicist Liz Derringer divorced, she discovered that although she could part with her husband, the rocker Rick Derringer, she was loath to part with his things, particularly his Les Paul Jr. guitar.
 ''It wasn't that we were so in love by then, but it was all those years of memories that we had together, and our journey through the 60's and 70's,'' she said. ''We're friends now, but we weren't for a long time. When I look at those mementos, they make me really happy, and really sad. It's so gut-wrenching, it really is, when you spend that much time with someone.''
 Judy Steinberg turned that nauseating feeling into a series of symbolic gestures to help women move on with their lives after a breakup, in her book ''Fabulous After 50 and Sexy at 60!'' (Plume, 2006, written with Raechel Donahue), ''because even if it's amicable, it still shreds your self-esteem,'' she said.
 Ms. Steinberg should know. When her own marriage to the comedian David Steinberg ended after 24 years, she hit him where she thought it would hurt most -- his vanity -- by igniting a stack of his head shots in the parking lot of his favorite restaurant.
 ''Seeing that Chiclet smile go up in smoke was elevating, to say the least,'' she said.
 She decided to write a book about getting over the relationship when she learned that her ex-husband's girlfriend had written one titled ''How to Survive Your Boyfriend's Divorce.''
 ''In my own case, I found my strength at the gym,'' she said. ''I started lifting weights at 57, and I started to behave like someone who was strong again.''
 In the end, she, too, purged. ''I didn't have JAR jewelry, but I sold some coats and a lot of clothes -- whatever I needed to do to launch myself into my own life,'' she said.
 ''I read that she is going to start a new film company,'' Ms. Steinberg said of Ms. Barkin. ''And moving past the horror of being dumped so publicly is the perfect way to use that money. What could be more rewarding?'' 
 She lowered her voice to a conspiratorial whisper. 
 ''And it's the best revenge.''


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawings by David G. Klein)(pgs. 1, 2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); FINE JEWELRY (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); CELEBRITIES (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (60%) Divorce, Separations and Annulments; Gifts

COMPANY: EBAY INC (93%)

TICKER: EBAY (NASDAQ) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (93%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (93%)

PERSON: RONALD PERELMAN (50%) Kathryn Shattuck

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



177 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: UPPER WEST SIDE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: Lamentation at Gray's Papaya

BYLINE: By JAKE MOONEY

 BODY:
Among the signs, in various sizes and hues, that cover the outside of the 72nd Street branch of the West Side hot dog chain Gray's Papaya, there is one that reads: ''Let's Be Frank. We Want You to Buy Our Furters.'' Another suggests Gray's for ''When You're Hungry, or Broke, or Just in a Hurry!'' 
 For those who are broke, however, paying for a meal at Gray's will soon be a tiny bit more of a challenge, according to a third sign. ''Bummer!!'' it says. ''We fight the good fight but our costs keep going up and we will soon be forced to raise our prices.'' Smaller signs at the store make the same point.
 On Thursday, a counterman served up a dog with onions, for the usual 95 cents (5 cents less than the ''Polite New Yorker'' buttons that are also on sale). The ''recession special,'' two dogs and a drink, was still $2.75 including tax, as it has been for several years.
 But Nicholas A. B. Gray, who founded the three-store chain in 1973, said on Friday that the prices would go up within the next few weeks, although he has not yet decided by how much. Increases in rents, taxes and the costs of dealing with government agencies, he said, are the reasons. 
 And, he added, he is not taking the change lightly. ''It's very traumatic to me,'' he said, ''and it's very traumatic for my customers, I think, because they feel a sense of betrayal.'' 
 The customers who packed the 72nd Street location at dinnertime on Thursday did not, however, seem particularly traumatized. ''We're New Yorkers,'' said Daisy deAsis, an adult-education teacher who lives on Columbus Avenue, and who was carrying a bag containing one plain hot dog, one with sauerkraut, onions, mustard and relish, and one pina colada drink. ''You're going to pay the price. Everything goes up.''
 Besides, what counts as expensive for a hot dog is relative. Rich McLaughlin, 27 and a Mets season ticket holder, noted that the franks at Shea Stadium were in the $4 range, and that a higher price did not necessarily mean better quality. ''They're bad,'' Mr. McLaughlin said, leaning against Gray's front window. ''Really bad.'' JAKE MOONEY


GRAPHIC: Photo: For hot dog fans, the news is grim. (Photo by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (88%); RETAILERS (78%); RESTAURANTS (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (60%) Restaurants; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: Gray's Papaya (NYC)

PERSON: Nicholas Gray; Jake Mooney

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



178 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: Landlocked in New York

BYLINE: By Jason H. Kramer. 
Jason H. Kramer is a history student at George Washington University.

DATELINE: ARDSLEY, N.Y. 

 BODY:
The City of New York owes its grandeur in part to its early prowess in attracting shipping. The Erie Canal, which opened the first major commercial artery to the American interior, helped transform New York docks into the springboard of a nation's commerce. 
 Today, however, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey is threatening to cut off the east bank of the Hudson River from the shipping trade, turning New York City, Long Island and Westchester into the global shipping equals of landlocked Wichita.
Blame it on the real estate boom. Enticed by high valuations, the Port Authority wants to redevelop the piers of the Red Hook Container Terminal in Brooklyn, turning New York's shipping heritage into commercial real estate. This is not so much about the past, however, as the future. The Red Hook terminal, which still handles about 120,000 containers of goods per year, is the last major shipping entrance east of the Hudson. The lease of American Stevedoring, Red Hook's last container port, expires in March of next year.
 If the Port Authority pursues its redevelopment plan, businesses and residents east of the Hudson will be forced to rely solely on trucks carrying cargo from New Jersey. According to American Stevedoring, which operates out of the Red Hook site, most of the containers they bring in remain east of the Hudson. If those goods arrive in New Jersey instead, they will have to be transported across one of the five bridges and tunnels crossing the Hudson, adding to already heavy congestion. Alternatives to bridge and tunnel traffic simply don't exist. The freight cannot be shipped east on rails; the southernmost freight bridge on the Hudson River is just south of Albany. The long-planned cross-harbor freight tunnel would solve the problem nicely. But the tunnel exists only on paper.
 There may be good reasons for placing an Ikea store or luxury condos on the Red Hook site. But there are plenty of stores and condos all over New York. There isn't another port, however. The Terminal promotes a unique culture and economy, along with the kind of jobs that New York needs in order to maintain a thriving middle class. And once the port is replaced by big boxes and high rises, we'll never get it back.
 The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey has an obligation to serve the people of both states. Moreover, as a public authority, it should put practical benefits to the people ahead of the urge to speculate in real estate. 
 New York's waterfront is a strategic asset of the people and businesses of the city, region and state. The Port Authority can find other ways to finance its pet projects without inhibiting the regional commerce the authority was created to excite. The redevelopment of the Red Hook Container Terminal might ignite local prosperity on the Brooklyn waterfront. But it might jeopardize the prosperity of an entire region in the process.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HARBORS & PORTS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (90%); CONTAINERIZATION (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (86%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); CONDOMINIUMS (75%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (71%) Ships and Shipping ; Containerization; Red Hook Marine Terminal (NYC)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (73%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%) Port Authority of New York and New Jersey

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (73%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (73%)

PERSON: Jason H Kramer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



179 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Editorial Desk; How the Democrats Can Win; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 232 words

HEADLINE: Start Making Sense

BYLINE: By KEVIN DRUM

 BODY:
THE American public loathes the bickering, deadlocked 109th Congress. Its approval rating was a subterranean 25 percent in September's New York Times/CBS poll. That makes this year's Democratic strategy simple: make sure the public knows exactly who's in charge of this wretched assemblage. Not a speech should go by without the phrase ''Republican Congress'' being repeated at least a dozen times. Two dozen would be even better. 
 So that's that. But Democrats also have an opportunity to do something more constructive in this fall's campaign: they should package a common-sense foreign policy so that it sounds like the common sense it is.
That means taking seriously the idea that our national interest is served by easing tensions and reducing hatred of the United States. This in turn means remaking the United States military so it can fight insurgencies and conduct peacekeeping missions more effectively; making serious use of multilateral institutions instead of deriding them; once again acting as an honest broker in the Middle East; and using economic engagement to help bring the Muslim world into the global community.
 Democrats need to learn how to make this case convincingly, because it's the only way we're going to win the war against militant Islamic jihadism. It might help the party win an election or two as well. 
 -- KEVIN DRUM, writer of the blog ''Political Animal.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); PEACEKEEPING (69%); RELIGION (66%) United States International Relations; Election Issues

PERSON: Kevin Drum

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



180 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Editorial Desk; How the Republicans Can Win; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 255 words

HEADLINE: Safe at Home

BYLINE: By TOM CAMPBELL

 BODY:
THE November House elections have now been nationalized. Republicans won't win by saying, ''Elect the incumbent.'' They can still win, however, by embracing the national nature of the contest and emphasizing their strengths: protecting us from terrorism; creating a thriving American economy. 
 First, there have been no terrorist attacks on America since 9/11. The partisan rebuttal by the Democrats is that this is just good luck. The Republicans should vigorously respond that the good luck explanation is dangerously irresponsible. There are debatable aspects of the war on terrorism, but the results are not attributable simply to good luck. They are the direct result of steps taken by the president and supported by Congress.
Second, look at our economy. Real economic growth, real personal take-home income, numbers of those employed -- all are at record highs. This is also not the result of good luck. The robust economy stems from actions the Republican president and Congress have taken and (wisely) not taken. Republicans let working men and women keep more of the fruits of what they create. Republicans have not built up unnecessary regulations and costs on those who create jobs. 
 The contest will then be between the Democrats' national issues (Iraq and management of the House) versus the Republicans' national issues (protecting us from terrorism and providing more jobs for Americans). Republicans can win that battle.
 -- TOM CAMPBELL, Republican representative from California from 1989 to 1993 and 1995 to 2001.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); WAR ON TERROR (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); WOMEN WORKERS (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%) Terrorism; United States Economy; Election Issues; Elections

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: Tom Campbell

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



181 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; How the Republicans Can Win; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 221 words

HEADLINE: Matchbook Strategy

BYLINE: By RICH BOND

 BODY:
ED KING, a conservative Democrat, defeated Michael Dukakis, the incumbent governor of Massachusetts, in 1978 by going on offense with what he referred to as his ''matchbook cover.'' Mr. King urged voters to write his core message on the back of their matchbook covers: ''Cut taxes, cut spending, kill killers.'' 
 In order not to get burned in the midterm elections, Republicans need to be on offense with a simple, believable, compelling message: ''Tough on terror, economic expansion, dangerous Democrats.''
When it comes to terrorism, border security and hanging tough in Iraq are critical. Eliminating the threat posed by a nuclear Iran and North Korea must become a motivating issue among Americans. 
 On the economy, remind voters of plummeting gas prices, historically low levels of unemployment and a roaring stock market. 
 On dangerous Democrats, remind voters of the other party's lack of a constructive alternative agenda. Break the Democrats' code. When Democrats say revenues, they mean raise taxes; when they refer to government investment they mean higher federal spending; and when they talk about redeployment of the troops they mean leaving Iraq before our job is done. 
 This simple and direct matchbook cover will win in November.
 -- RICH BOND, chairman of the Republican National Committee from 1992 to 1993.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (85%); GOVERNORS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TAX INCREASES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); TAX LAW (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (69%); BORDER CONTROL (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (53%) Terrorism; Election Issues

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%)

PERSON: Rich Bond

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



182 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: Landlocked in New York

BYLINE: By Jason H. Kramer. 
Jason H. Kramer is a history student at George Washington University.

DATELINE: Ardsley, N.Y. 

 BODY:
NEW YORK CITY owes its grandeur in part to its early prowess in attracting shipping. The Erie Canal, which opened the first major commercial artery to the American interior, helped transform New York docks into the springboard of a nation's commerce. 
 Today, however, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey is threatening to cut off the east bank of the Hudson River from the shipping trade, turning New York east of the Hudson, including Long Island and Westchester, into the global shipping equals of landlocked Wichita.
Blame the real estate boom. Enticed by high property prices, the Port Authority wants to redevelop the piers of the Red Hook Container Terminal in Brooklyn, turning New York's shipping heritage into commercial real estate. The Red Hook terminal, which handles more than 120,000 containers of goods per year, is the last major shipping entrance east of the Hudson. The lease of American Stevedoring, the port's operator, expires next spring.
 If the Port Authority pursues its redevelopment plan, businesses and residents east of the Hudson will be forced to rely solely on trucks carrying cargo from New Jersey. American Stevedoring says most of the containers it brings in remain east of the Hudson. If those goods land in New Jersey instead, they will have to be transported across one of the five bridges and tunnels crossing the river, adding to already heavy congestion.
 The freight cannot be shipped east on rails; the southernmost freight bridge over the Hudson River is just south of Albany. The long-planned cross-harbor freight tunnel would solve the problem nicely. But the tunnel exists only on paper.
 There may be good reasons for placing an Ikea or luxury condos on the waterfront in Red Hook. But there are plenty of stores and condos all over New York. There isn't another port. The terminal promotes a unique culture and economy, along with the kind of jobs that New York needs to maintain a thriving middle class. And once the port is replaced by big-box stores and high rises, we'll never get it back.
 The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey has an obligation to serve the people of both states. Moreover, as a public authority, it should put practical benefits to the people ahead of the urge to speculate in real estate. 
 New York's waterfront is a strategic asset of the people and businesses of the city, region and state. The Port Authority can find other ways to finance its pet projects without inhibiting the regional commerce the authority was created to encourage. The redevelopment of the Red Hook Container Terminal may ignite local prosperity on the Brooklyn waterfront. But it might jeopardize the prosperity of an entire region in the process.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HARBORS & PORTS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); CONTAINERIZATION (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); CONDOMINIUMS (75%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); RETAILERS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (72%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (70%) Ships and Shipping ; Containerization; Red Hook Marine Terminal (NYC)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (73%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%) Port Authority of New York and New Jersey

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (73%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (73%)

PERSON: Jason H Kramer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); ALBANY, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City; Red Hook (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



183 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: Housing Costs Rise. So Does Life on the Edge.

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

 BODY:
WHEN Tom Summers and Lori Funicello set out last year to buy their first home, they were hoping the mortgage would cost about the same as they were paying in rent on two apartments: $2,000 a month. But they quickly gave up their search after they discovered that all they could buy was a condominium, or endure a commute of more than two hours.
 So the couple, planning a wedding next spring, did what many young couples do to buy a home with a backyard in a town where the schools are good. They borrowed a lot of money.
''We started looking in the $300,000 range, and even that was a stretch,'' said Mr. Summers, 36, a systems administrator in New York City. ''We went over that by $100,000.'' 
 Mr. Summers and Ms. Funicello, 31, a fund-raiser who works in the development office of the Bank Street College in Manhattan, now have a small three-bedroom split-level house in Parsippany, N.J. -- and mortgage, tax and utility bills that consume more than 40 percent of their income. ''It makes us both nervous,'' Mr. Summers said. ''If one of us lost a job, and that possibility is always looming, I don't know what we'd do.''
 Census figures released last week show a sharp increase in the number of people sinking large chunks of money into housing, especially in the New York metropolitan region, where the combined effect of high prices, taxes and home equity borrowing has pushed thousands of households into what many consider perilous financial territory.
 Forty-four percent of suburban households with mortgages now pay more than 30 percent of their income for housing costs, a figure commonly seen as a limit of affordability. And one in six pays more than 50 percent. Both figures are higher than the national average, and up substantially since 2000. 
 ''This is an alarming development,'' said Pearl M. Kamer, chief economist for the Long Island Association, a business group. ''People are beggaring themselves to afford their housing.''
 The new census data confirm a trend that economists say shows a growing fragility in the region's prosperity. Income remains high -- New Jersey's median state income of $61,700 was the highest in the nation, and individual counties in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, like Nassau, Westchester, Bergen, Somerset and Fairfield, continue to rank near the top nationally. 
 But housing costs are eroding those advantages. New Jersey also leads the nation in housing costs, and most of the counties in the region rank in the top 10 percent in the proportion of income going to housing, the new numbers show.
 ''Looking at our median income figures alone would suggest we have a much higher standard of living than we have, because of those high housing costs,'' said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. ''The region has become an enormously expensive place to live, and housing costs are consuming a greater and greater share of income.''
 Driven by low interest rates, the median price of homes in the region has grown at more than double the rate of the rest of the country, the census figures show: In Suffolk County, N.Y., and Monmouth and Ocean Counties in New Jersey, the median price grew more than 90 percent in the last five years. Nationally, the median home price went up 32 percent. The figures come from the American Community Survey, which is replacing part of the United States Census Bureau's count every decade with yearly updates.
 Low interest rates created a boom in home equity financing as well, which allowed people who already owned homes to increase their debt. Home equity indebtedness doubled between 2000 and 2005, said Mark Zandi, chief economist with Moody's Economy.com. That borrowing has helped keep money flowing into the economy, but the new numbers suggest that there has been a cost.
 ''Consumer spending has held up relatively well this year, but it has been built on a mountain of debt,'' Dr. Kamer said. ''The bill has come due.''
 Although most families in the suburbs live in homes they own, the census figures show that renters, too, are spending large proportions of their income on housing. In Bergen County, N.J., for instance, 48 percent of renters and 43 percent of owners were paying more than 30 percent of their income on housing, and both of those totals were up substantially from 2000. In Bridgeport, Conn., 62 percent of renters pay more than 30 percent of income on housing.
 Families who pay more than 30 percent of their income on housing are considered ''cost burdened'' by the federal government, since they may have difficulty paying for other necessities. Housing costs, as defined by the census, include rent, mortgage, taxes and utilities. Lenders also sometimes use 30 percent as a rule of thumb for judging whether mortgage applicants are going to be able to make their payments.
 ''People have always stretched to get into a home,'' said Marc Albaum, a Manhattan accountant with clients across the region. ''Now they're stretching to the breaking point. These people are vulnerable: God forbid they should lose a job.''
 JOSEPH KRUPKA, an accountant in East Brunswick, N.J., said he had seen a lot of clients get into trouble ''trying to keep up with the Joneses.''
 ''I have one client whose house was paid off, but his wife wanted a big backyard addition, so they took out a home equity loan,'' he said. ''And then he lost his job.''
 With so much money going to housing, other needs may not be met, the experts say. Dr. Kamer said some people with lower incomes were struggling to pay medical bills or even to put food on the table. Financial planners say people are finding it more difficult to save.
 ''If you're devoting that much of your cash flow to the roof over your head, it's likely that you're less able to devote money to other objectives, like funding your retirement, or putting funds away for your child's college education,'' said Jeff Fisher, a financial planner who lives in Tarrytown, N.Y. ''If all these dollars are going to debt burden, I suspect people are sacrificing their long-term goals.''
 Ms. Funicello said she and Mr. Summers were not planning a vacation this year. They will hold on to their aging cars, and they don't go out to dinner often. They are hoping a tax refund next year will help pay for their wedding in May. 
 ''Our savings is very modest, and we're living sort of, well, I can't say month to month, but we can't plan too far in advance,'' she said. ''We're comfortable. But there's not a lot of cushion.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: CRUNCHING NUMBERS -- Lori Funicello and Tom Summers in the guest bedroom that doubles as an office in their home in Parsippany, N.J. (Photo by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)Chart/Map: ''Stretched Budgets''Percentage of mortgage holders spending more than 50 percent of their income on housing in 2005.Map of New York State, New Jersey and Connecticut highlighting percentage of mortgage holders spending more than 50 percent of their income on housing in 2005.(Source by Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (87%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); TRENDS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (76%); SUBURBS (76%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (71%); UTILITY RATES (71%); CITIES (70%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (68%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Mortgages; Suburbs; Housing

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%) Census Bureau

PERSON: Ford Fessenden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



184 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: Housing Costs Rise. So Does Life on the Edge.

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

 BODY:
WHEN Tom Summers and Lori Funicello set out last year to buy their first home, they were hoping the mortgage would cost about the same as they were paying in rent on two apartments: $2,000 a month. But they quickly gave up their search after they discovered that all they could buy was a condominium, or endure a commute of more than two hours.
 So the couple, planning a wedding next spring, did what many young couples do to buy a home with a backyard in a town where the schools are good. They borrowed a lot of money.
''We started looking in the $300,000 range, and even that was a stretch,'' said Mr. Summers, 36, a systems administrator in New York City. ''We went over that by $100,000.'' 
 Mr. Summers and Ms. Funicello, 31, a fund-raiser who works in the development office of the Bank Street College in Manhattan, now have a small three-bedroom split-level house in Parsippany, N.J. -- and mortgage, tax and utility bills that consume more than 40 percent of their income. ''It makes us both nervous,'' Mr. Summers said. ''If one of us lost a job, and that possibility is always looming, I don't know what we'd do.''
 Census figures released last week show a sharp increase in the number of people sinking large chunks of money into housing, especially in the New York metropolitan region, where the combined effect of high prices, taxes and home equity borrowing has pushed thousands of households into what many consider perilous financial territory.
 Forty-four percent of suburban households with mortgages now pay more than 30 percent of their income for housing costs, a figure commonly seen as a limit of affordability. And one in six pays more than 50 percent. Both figures are higher than the national average, and up substantially since 2000. 
 ''This is an alarming development,'' said Pearl M. Kamer, chief economist for the Long Island Association, a business group. ''People are beggaring themselves to afford their housing.''
 The new census data confirm a trend that economists say shows a growing fragility in the region's prosperity. Income remains high -- New Jersey's median state income of $61,700 was the highest in the nation, and individual counties in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, like Nassau, Westchester, Bergen, Somerset and Fairfield, continue to rank near the top nationally. 
 But housing costs are eroding those advantages. New Jersey also leads the nation in housing costs, and most of the counties in the region rank in the top 10 percent in the proportion of income going to housing, the new numbers show.
 ''Looking at our median income figures alone would suggest we have a much higher standard of living than we have, because of those high housing costs,'' said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. ''The region has become an enormously expensive place to live, and housing costs are consuming a greater and greater share of income.''
 Driven by low interest rates, the median price of homes in the region has grown at more than double the rate of the rest of the country, the census figures show: In Suffolk County, N.Y., and Monmouth and Ocean Counties in New Jersey, the median price grew more than 90 percent in the last five years. Nationally, the median home price went up 32 percent. The figures come from the American Community Survey, which is replacing part of the United States Census Bureau's count every decade with yearly updates.
 Low interest rates created a boom in home equity financing as well, which allowed people who already owned homes to increase their debt. Home equity indebtedness doubled between 2000 and 2005, said Mark Zandi, chief economist with Moody's Economy.com. That borrowing has helped keep money flowing into the economy, but the new numbers suggest that there has been a cost.
 ''Consumer spending has held up relatively well this year, but it has been built on a mountain of debt,'' Dr. Kamer said. ''The bill has come due.''
 Although most families in the suburbs live in homes they own, the census figures show that renters, too, are spending large proportions of their income on housing. In Bergen County, N.J., for instance, 48 percent of renters and 43 percent of owners were paying more than 30 percent of their income on housing, and both of those totals were up substantially from 2000. In Bridgeport, Conn., 62 percent of renters pay more than 30 percent of income on housing.
 Families who pay more than 30 percent of their income on housing are considered ''cost burdened'' by the federal government, since they may have difficulty paying for other necessities. Housing costs, as defined by the census, include rent, mortgage, taxes and utilities. Lenders also sometimes use 30 percent as a rule of thumb for judging whether mortgage applicants are going to be able to make their payments.
 ''People have always stretched to get into a home,'' said Marc Albaum, a Manhattan accountant with clients across the region. ''Now they're stretching to the breaking point. These people are vulnerable: God forbid they should lose a job.''
 JOSEPH KRUPKA, an accountant in East Brunswick, N.J., said he had seen a lot of clients get into trouble ''trying to keep up with the Joneses.''
 ''I have one client whose house was paid off, but his wife wanted a big backyard addition, so they took out a home equity loan,'' he said. ''And then he lost his job.''
 With so much money going to housing, other needs may not be met, the experts say. Dr. Kamer said some people with lower incomes were struggling to pay medical bills or even to put food on the table. Financial planners say people are finding it more difficult to save.
 ''If you're devoting that much of your cash flow to the roof over your head, it's likely that you're less able to devote money to other objectives, like funding your retirement, or putting funds away for your child's college education,'' said Jeff Fisher, a financial planner who lives in Tarrytown, N.Y. ''If all these dollars are going to debt burden, I suspect people are sacrificing their long-term goals.''
 Ms. Funicello said she and Mr. Summers were not planning a vacation this year. They will hold on to their aging cars, and they don't go out to dinner often. They are hoping a tax refund next year will help pay for their wedding in May. 
 ''Our savings is very modest, and we're living sort of, well, I can't say month to month, but we can't plan too far in advance,'' she said. ''We're comfortable. But there's not a lot of cushion.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: CRUNCHING NUMBERS -- Lori Funicello and Tom Summers in the guest bedroom that doubles as an office in their home in Parsippany, N.J. (Photo by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)Chart/Map: ''Stretched Budgets''Percentage of mortgage holders spending more than 50 percent of their income on housing in 2005.Map of New York State, New Jersey and Connecticut highlighting percentage of mortgage holders spending more than 50 percent of their income on housing in 2005.(Source by Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (87%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); TRENDS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (76%); SUBURBS (76%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (71%); UTILITY RATES (71%); CITIES (70%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (68%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Mortgages; Suburbs; Housing

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%) Census Bureau

PERSON: Ford Fessenden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



185 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: Losing It at the Track

 BODY:
This week, if things go as planned, Yonkers Raceway will be reborn as a casino called Empire City, with bright lights and plush carpet and the first of what are expected to eventually be 5,500 slot machines in the biggest Las Vegas-style gambling operation this side of Atlantic City or woodsy southeast Connecticut. The $240 million overhaul of a dingy old haven for trotting horses and stubbly gamblers is taking place in phases, with the opening of part of the operation to be followed by a grand unveiling later this year with lots of noise and hoopla. 
 The rot will set in far more quietly. By that we mean the silent depletion of bank accounts, the erosion of credit ratings, the soundless misery of a growing cohort of losers laid low by compulsion and greed, and the spreading of a social cancer from the Catskills to the edge of New York City.
It's hard to avoid sounding moralistic when weighing in against the supposedly innocent fun of state-sponsored casino gambling, where busloads of grandmas while away the afternoons for an unassailably good cause -- education -- and hordes of cocktail waitresses and busboys hustle and bustle, grateful for their jobs and tips. But it needs to be said: The economic arguments in favor of gambling are fundamentally dishonest, as phony as the relentless cheeriness of the casino floor. 
 New York State sold its soul to gambling long ago for the promise of a seemingly painless stream of cash, and with its racing casinos and wide array of Lotto, Quick Draw and other games, the state is hooked on wagering in a big way. It took some casuistry to make this happen. The state Constitution actually forbids slot machines, but that problem was dodged by labeling them ''video lottery terminals.'' The idea that a state education lottery should pay only for the education of schoolchildren was abandoned long ago; a chunk of racing casino revenue subsidizes the New York horse-racing industry.
 The price of this muddling has been steep. Gambling is a vacuum attached to poor people's pocketbooks. According to a 1996 study by the New York Council on Problem Gambling, the state's percentage of lifetime or potential problem gamblers is among the highest in the country. The officials who have been touting the economic benefits of the casino in bringing jobs and revenue to Yonkers, echoing their counterparts in places like Saratoga and Monticello, will probably not spend time lingering in the parts of the Bronx, Yonkers and Mount Vernon -- and wherever else the motor-coaches come from -- to see the social toll gambling has taken.
 The real stories behind a place like Empire City are told in places like St. John's Episcopal Church on Underhill Street in Yonkers, where a Gambling Anonymous chapter meets on Thursday nights. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); HORSE RACING (89%); LOTTERIES (89%); MOUNTAINS (88%); CASINOS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); JOB CREATION (71%); CHILDREN (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (50%) Gambling; Editorials; Yonkers Raceway; Horse Racing; Casinos

ORGANIZATION: Empire City (Casino)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; Yonkers (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



186 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: Housing Costs Rise. So Does Life on the Edge.

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

 BODY:
WHEN Tom Summers and Lori Funicello set out last year to buy their first home, they were hoping the mortgage would cost about the same as they were paying in rent on two apartments: $2,000 a month. But they quickly gave up their search after they discovered that all they could buy was a condominium, or endure a commute of more than two hours.
 So the couple, planning a wedding next spring, did what many young couples do to buy a home with a backyard in a town where the schools are good. They borrowed a lot of money.
''We started looking in the $300,000 range, and even that was a stretch,'' said Mr. Summers, 36, a systems administrator in New York City. ''We went over that by $100,000.'' 
 Mr. Summers and Ms. Funicello, 31, a fund-raiser who works in the development office of the Bank Street College in Manhattan, now have a small three-bedroom split-level house in Parsippany, N.J. -- and mortgage, tax and utility bills that consume more than 40 percent of their income. ''It makes us both nervous,'' Mr. Summers said. ''If one of us lost a job, and that possibility is always looming, I don't know what we'd do.''
 Census figures released last week show a sharp increase in the number of people sinking large chunks of money into housing, especially in the New York metropolitan region, where the combined effect of high prices, taxes and home equity borrowing has pushed thousands of households into what many consider perilous financial territory.
 Forty-four percent of suburban households with mortgages now pay more than 30 percent of their income for housing costs, a figure commonly seen as a limit of affordability. And one in six pays more than 50 percent. Both figures are higher than the national average, and up substantially since 2000. 
 ''This is an alarming development,'' said Pearl M. Kamer, chief economist for the Long Island Association, a business group. ''People are beggaring themselves to afford their housing.''
 The new census data confirm a trend that economists say shows a growing fragility in the region's prosperity. Income remains high -- New Jersey's median state income of $61,700 was the highest in the nation, and individual counties in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, like Nassau, Westchester, Bergen, Somerset and Fairfield, continue to rank near the top nationally. 
 But housing costs are eroding those advantages. New Jersey also leads the nation in housing costs, and most of the counties in the region rank in the top 10 percent in the proportion of income going to housing, the new numbers show.
 ''Looking at our median income figures alone would suggest we have a much higher standard of living than we have, because of those high housing costs,'' said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. ''The region has become an enormously expensive place to live, and housing costs are consuming a greater and greater share of income.''
 Driven by low interest rates, the median price of homes in the region has grown at more than double the rate of the rest of the country, the census figures show: In Suffolk County, N.Y., and Monmouth and Ocean Counties in New Jersey, the median price grew more than 90 percent in the last five years. Nationally, the median home price went up 32 percent. The figures come from the American Community Survey, which is replacing part of the United States Census Bureau's count every decade with yearly updates.
 Low interest rates created a boom in home equity financing as well, which allowed people who already owned homes to increase their debt. Home equity indebtedness doubled between 2000 and 2005, said Mark Zandi, chief economist with Moody's Economy.com. That borrowing has helped keep money flowing into the economy, but the new numbers suggest that there has been a cost.
 ''Consumer spending has held up relatively well this year, but it has been built on a mountain of debt,'' Dr. Kamer said. ''The bill has come due.''
 Although most families in the suburbs live in homes they own, the census figures show that renters, too, are spending large proportions of their income on housing. In Bergen County, N.J., for instance, 48 percent of renters and 43 percent of owners were paying more than 30 percent of their income on housing, and both of those totals were up substantially from 2000. In Bridgeport, Conn., 62 percent of renters pay more than 30 percent of income on housing.
 Families who pay more than 30 percent of their income on housing are considered ''cost burdened'' by the federal government, since they may have difficulty paying for other necessities. Housing costs, as defined by the census, include rent, mortgage, taxes and utilities. Lenders also sometimes use 30 percent as a rule of thumb for judging whether mortgage applicants are going to be able to make their payments.
 ''People have always stretched to get into a home,'' said Marc Albaum, a Manhattan accountant with clients across the region. ''Now they're stretching to the breaking point. These people are vulnerable: God forbid they should lose a job.''
 JOSEPH KRUPKA, an accountant in East Brunswick, N.J., said he had seen a lot of clients get into trouble ''trying to keep up with the Joneses.''
 ''I have one client whose house was paid off, but his wife wanted a big backyard addition, so they took out a home equity loan,'' he said. ''And then he lost his job.''
 With so much money going to housing, other needs may not be met, the experts say. Dr. Kamer said some people with lower incomes were struggling to pay medical bills or even to put food on the table. Financial planners say people are finding it more difficult to save.
 ''If you're devoting that much of your cash flow to the roof over your head, it's likely that you're less able to devote money to other objectives, like funding your retirement, or putting funds away for your child's college education,'' said Jeff Fisher, a financial planner who lives in Tarrytown, N.Y. ''If all these dollars are going to debt burden, I suspect people are sacrificing their long-term goals.''
 Ms. Funicello said she and Mr. Summers were not planning a vacation this year. They will hold on to their aging cars, and they don't go out to dinner often. They are hoping a tax refund next year will help pay for their wedding in May. 
 ''Our savings is very modest, and we're living sort of, well, I can't say month to month, but we can't plan too far in advance,'' she said. ''We're comfortable. But there's not a lot of cushion.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: CRUNCHING NUMBERS -- Lori Funicello and Tom Summers in the guest bedroom that doubles as an office in their home in Parsippany, N.J. (Photo by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)Chart/Map: ''Stretched Budgets''Percentage of mortgage holders spending more than 50 percent of their income on housing in 2005.Map of New York State, New Jersey and Connecticut highlighting percentage of mortgage holders spending more than 50 percent of their income on housing in 2005.(Source by Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (87%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); TRENDS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (76%); SUBURBS (76%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (71%); UTILITY RATES (71%); CITIES (70%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (68%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Mortgages; Suburbs; Housing

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%) Census Bureau

PERSON: Ford Fessenden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



187 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: A CITIZEN'S CALENDAR

 BODY:
A selective listing of state, county and local government events across Connecticut this week. (All dates and times subject to confirmation.) Items should be submitted by mail at least three weeks in advance to the Connecticut Op-Ed Page, The New York Times, 229 West 43rd Street, New York, N.Y. 10036, or by e-mail to ctcivic@nytimes.com. 


State of Connecticut

Hartford Commission on Human Rights and Opportunities. Thursday at 2 p.m. 21 Grand Street. (860) 541-3400.

Hartford Underground Storage Tank Petroleum Clean-Up Account Review Board. Tuesday at 1:30 p.m. Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection Headquarters, 79 Elm Street. (860) 424-3370.

Hartford Status conference, prehearing and hearing on the Tweed-New Haven Airport Authority. Thursday at 1 p.m. Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection Headquarters, 79 Elm Street. (860) 424-3037.

Hartford State Implementation Plan Revision Advisory Committee. Thursday at 9 a.m. Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection Headquarters, 79 Elm Street. Chris.nelson@po.state.ct.us.

Hartford State Historic Preservation Board Meeting. Thursday at 9:30 a.m. South Congregational Church, 277 Main Street. (860) 566-3005.

New Britain Connecticut Siting Council. Tuesday at 1:30 p.m. 10 Franklin Square. (860) 827-2935.

Fairfield County

Bethel Commission on Aging. Monday at 3 p.m. Clifford J. Hurgin Municipal Center, 1 School Street. (203) 794-8501.

Brookfield Zoning Commission. Thursday at 7 p.m. Brookfield Town Hall, 100 Pocono Road. (203) 775-7300.

Danbury Commission on Persons With Disabilities. Tuesday at 6:30 p.m. Danbury City Hall, 155 Deer Hill Avenue. (203) 797-4500.

Darien Representative Town Meeting Rules Committee. Monday at 8:15 p.m. Darien Town Hall, 2 Renshaw Road. (203) 656-7300.

Fairfield Shellfish Commission. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Sullivan Independence Hall, 725 Old Post Road. (203) 266-3008.

Greenwich Representative Town Meeting Health and Human Services Committee. Tuesday at 8 p.m. Greenwich Town Hall, 101 Field Point Road. (203) 622-7700.

Monroe Town Council. Tuesday at 8 p.m. Monroe Town Hall, 7 Fan Hill Road. (203) 452-5417.

New Canaan Town Council public hearing and meeting. Wednesday at 7 p.m. New Canaan Town Hall, 77 Main Street. (203) 972-2323.

New Fairfield Youth Commission. Oct. 13 at 5:30 p.m. New Fairfield Town Hall, 4 Brush Hill Road. (203) 312-5616.

Hartford County

Plainville Zoning Board of Appeals. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Plainville Municipal Center, 1 Central Square. (860) 793-0221.

Simsbury Design Review Board. Tuesday at 5:30 p.m. Simsbury City Hall, 933 Hopmeadow Street. (860) 658-3200.

Litchfield County

Barkhamsted Board of Selectmen. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Barkhamsted Town Hall, 67 Ripley Hill Road. (860) 379-8285.

Bethlehem Conservation Commission. Thursday at 7 p.m. Bethlehem Town Hall, 36 Main Street South. (203) 266-7510.

Colebrook Recreation Board. Tuesday at 6:30 p.m. Colebrook Town Hall, Colebrook Center. (860) 379-3359.

Falls Village Board of Selectmen. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Canaan Town Hall, 108 Main Street. (860) 824-0707.

New Hartford Planning and Zoning Commission. Wednesday at 7 p.m. New Hartford Town Hall, 530 Main Street. (860) 379-3389.

Plymouth Economic Development Commission. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Plymouth Historical Society, 572 Main Street. (860) 585-7040.

Middlesex County

Essex Economic Development Commission. Wednesday at 2 p.m. Essex Town Hall, 29 West Avenue. (860) 767-4340.

Portland Board of Selectmen. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Portland Library, 20 Freestone Avenue. (860) 342-6770.

New Haven County

Orange Conservation Commission. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Orange Town Hall, 617 Orange Center Road. (203) 891-2122.

Woodbridge Board of Selectmen. Wednesday at 6 p.m. Woodbridge Town Hall, 11 Meeting House Lane. (203) 389-3400.

New London County

Groton Zoning Board of Appeals. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Groton Town Hall, 45 Fort Hill Road. (860) 441-6640.

Montville Town Council. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Montville Town Hall, 310 Norwich-New London Turnpike. (860) 848-3030 Ext. 311.

Tolland County

Tolland Board of Selectmen. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Hicks Memorial Municipal Building, 21 Tolland Green. (860) 871-3600.

Windham County

Plainfield Planning and Zoning Commission. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Plainfield Town Hall, 8 Community Avenue. (860) 230-3000.

Torrington Inland Wetlands Commission. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Torrington City Hall, 140 Main Street. (860) 489-2241.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); COUNTIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ZONING (89%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS (71%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); PORT AUTHORITIES (71%); CITY LIFE (69%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (68%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (55%); AIRPORT OPERATION (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%) CONNECTICUT, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



188 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: Housing Costs Rise. So Does Life on the Edge.

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

 BODY:
WHEN Tom Summers and Lori Funicello set out last year to buy their first home, they were hoping the mortgage would cost about the same as they were paying in rent on two apartments: $2,000 a month. But they quickly gave up their search after they discovered that all they could buy was a condominium, or endure a commute of more than two hours.
 So the couple, planning a wedding next spring, did what many young couples do to buy a home with a backyard in a town where the schools are good. They borrowed a lot of money.
''We started looking in the $300,000 range, and even that was a stretch,'' said Mr. Summers, 36, a systems administrator in New York City. ''We went over that by $100,000.'' 
 Mr. Summers and Ms. Funicello, 31, a fund-raiser who works in the development office of the Bank Street College in Manhattan, now have a small three-bedroom split-level house in Parsippany, N.J. -- and mortgage, tax and utility bills that consume more than 40 percent of their income. ''It makes us both nervous,'' Mr. Summers said. ''If one of us lost a job, and that possibility is always looming, I don't know what we'd do.''
 Census figures released last week show a sharp increase in the number of people sinking large chunks of money into housing, especially in the New York metropolitan region, where the combined effect of high prices, taxes and home equity borrowing has pushed thousands of households into what many consider perilous financial territory.
 Forty-four percent of suburban households with mortgages now pay more than 30 percent of their income for housing costs, a figure commonly seen as a limit of affordability. And one in six pays more than 50 percent. Both figures are higher than the national average, and up substantially since 2000. 
 ''This is an alarming development,'' said Pearl M. Kamer, chief economist for the Long Island Association, a business group. ''People are beggaring themselves to afford their housing.''
 The new census data confirm a trend that economists say shows a growing fragility in the region's prosperity. Income remains high -- New Jersey's median state income of $61,700 was the highest in the nation, and individual counties in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, like Nassau, Westchester, Bergen, Somerset and Fairfield, continue to rank near the top nationally. 
 But housing costs are eroding those advantages. New Jersey also leads the nation in housing costs, and most of the counties in the region rank in the top 10 percent in the proportion of income going to housing, the new numbers show.
 ''Looking at our median income figures alone would suggest we have a much higher standard of living than we have, because of those high housing costs,'' said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. ''The region has become an enormously expensive place to live, and housing costs are consuming a greater and greater share of income.''
 Driven by low interest rates, the median price of homes in the region has grown at more than double the rate of the rest of the country, the census figures show: In Suffolk County, N.Y., and Monmouth and Ocean Counties in New Jersey, the median price grew more than 90 percent in the last five years. Nationally, the median home price went up 32 percent. The figures come from the American Community Survey, which is replacing part of the United States Census Bureau's count every decade with yearly updates.
 Low interest rates created a boom in home equity financing as well, which allowed people who already owned homes to increase their debt. Home equity indebtedness doubled between 2000 and 2005, said Mark Zandi, chief economist with Moody's Economy.com. That borrowing has helped keep money flowing into the economy, but the new numbers suggest that there has been a cost.
 ''Consumer spending has held up relatively well this year, but it has been built on a mountain of debt,'' Dr. Kamer said. ''The bill has come due.''
 Although most families in the suburbs live in homes they own, the census figures show that renters, too, are spending large proportions of their income on housing. In Bergen County, N.J., for instance, 48 percent of renters and 43 percent of owners were paying more than 30 percent of their income on housing, and both of those totals were up substantially from 2000. In Bridgeport, Conn., 62 percent of renters pay more than 30 percent of income on housing.
 Families who pay more than 30 percent of their income on housing are considered ''cost burdened'' by the federal government, since they may have difficulty paying for other necessities. Housing costs, as defined by the census, include rent, mortgage, taxes and utilities. Lenders also sometimes use 30 percent as a rule of thumb for judging whether mortgage applicants are going to be able to make their payments.
 ''People have always stretched to get into a home,'' said Marc Albaum, a Manhattan accountant with clients across the region. ''Now they're stretching to the breaking point. These people are vulnerable: God forbid they should lose a job.''
 JOSEPH KRUPKA, an accountant in East Brunswick, N.J., said he had seen a lot of clients get into trouble ''trying to keep up with the Joneses.''
 ''I have one client whose house was paid off, but his wife wanted a big backyard addition, so they took out a home equity loan,'' he said. ''And then he lost his job.''
 With so much money going to housing, other needs may not be met, the experts say. Dr. Kamer said some people with lower incomes were struggling to pay medical bills or even to put food on the table. Financial planners say people are finding it more difficult to save.
 ''If you're devoting that much of your cash flow to the roof over your head, it's likely that you're less able to devote money to other objectives, like funding your retirement, or putting funds away for your child's college education,'' said Jeff Fisher, a financial planner who lives in Tarrytown, N.Y. ''If all these dollars are going to debt burden, I suspect people are sacrificing their long-term goals.''
 Ms. Funicello said she and Mr. Summers were not planning a vacation this year. They will hold on to their aging cars, and they don't go out to dinner often. They are hoping a tax refund next year will help pay for their wedding in May. 
 ''Our savings is very modest, and we're living sort of, well, I can't say month to month, but we can't plan too far in advance,'' she said. ''We're comfortable. But there's not a lot of cushion.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: CRUNCHING NUMBERS -- Lori Funicello and Tom Summers in the guest bedroom that doubles as an office in their home in Parsippany, N.J. (Photo by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)Chart/Map: ''Stretched Budgets''Percentage of mortgage holders spending more than 50 percent of their income on housing in 2005.Map of New York State, New Jersey, and Connecticut highlighting percentage of mortgage holders spending more than 50 percent of their income on housing in 2005.(Source by Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (87%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); TRENDS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (76%); SUBURBS (76%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (71%); UTILITY RATES (71%); CITIES (70%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (68%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Mortgages; Suburbs; Housing

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%) Census Bureau

PERSON: Ford Fessenden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



189 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 3; Sports Desk; HORSE RACING; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: Barbaro's Injury Gives Synthetic Surface Urgency

BYLINE: By JOE DRAPE

DATELINE: LEXINGTON, Ky., Oct. 6 

 BODY:
For 70 years, Keeneland's ivy-entwined limestone facade, intricate ironwork and chocolate-colored oval have made it one of the world's most pastoral settings to watch top-flight thoroughbreds, to hear their thundering hooves.
 On Friday, as Lordly bounded down the stretch to win the first race on opening day of the fall meeting, the roughly 22,000 people here knew immediately that this stately racetrack had undergone a radical facelift. That chocolate-colored oval had a caramel tint; the thunder of hooves was barely a whisper. But as the horses glided over a new, $8 million synthetic surface conjured from recycled rubber and silica sand, no one was complaining.
Horsemen and horseplayers alike have embraced Keeneland's attempt to shatter one of the sport's most distasteful maxims: that life-threatening injuries are an unfortunate part of racing. What remains a monument to the Bluegrass is now considered a model of safety for the region's most cherished export, thoroughbreds. 
 Just as the death of Dale Earnhardt in the 2001 Daytona 500 prompted Nascar to spend more on scientific research to make its drivers safer, the career-ending breakdown of the Kentucky Derby winner Barbaro at the Preakness Stakes in May has brought urgency to reducing the number of catastrophic injuries to racehorses. 
 ''We are part of the sport of kings, which too often has meant that we let the past carry us,'' said Patrick Biancone, a prominent horse trainer and proponent of synthetic tracks. ''No one has had the guts to look forward and take advantage of the science and technology available. There has to be a better way to keep these animals and these riders safe. This is one of them.''
 While no uniform statistics exist for how often thoroughbreds are fatally injured on the racetrack, several studies put the number at about 1.5 times per 1,000 starts. The management here was among the first in North America to invest in synthetic surfaces, which were pioneered in Europe.
 In 2004, Keeneland's operators installed what is called Polytrack on a five-eighths-of-a-mile training track here. In 2005, they put it on the main racing surface at Turfway Park, the track they own with Harrah's Entertainment in Florence, Ky.
 Early returns from Turfway Park are encouraging. In the fall 2005 and the winter 2006 meetings on the synthetic surface, 3 horses sustained life-ending injuries compared with 24 the previous seasons, when a sand-based track was still in place.
 ''We didn't do this just because of Barbaro,'' said Nick Nicholson, Keeneland's president and chief executive. ''We did it because there are incidents like Barbaro's that have happened every day for a long time.''
 On Nov. 1, a synthetic surface will make its debut at Hollywood Park in California, and racing officials have mandated that all of the state's tracks install it by the end of 2007. Woodbine in Canada has been conducting racing on a synthetic surface for several months, and the tracks are now de rigueur on training farms from here to Washington state.
 Todd Pletcher, the nation's leading trainer, increased the number of stalls he has here and is taking horses to Hollywood Park for the first time next month. He is doing so at the request of Michael Tabor, one of his owners and a principal in Coolmore, a powerful international breeding and racing operation.
 ''They are very familiar with the benefit of those tracks because of their experience in Europe,'' Pletcher said. ''The limited data we have is promising. If it's easier on the horses, minimizes injuries and leads to longer careers, it's a no-brainer. We'll find out.''
 The 17-day meet here, one of the nation's most prestigious with 19 stakes races worth more than $5.1 million, will be watched closely by trainers, owners and track officials looking for further evidence that fatal injuries -- and the corrosive public spectacles that accompany them -- can be reduced. 
 ''Keeneland will be a true test, because you will have quality horses running every day,'' said the trainer Bob Baffert, who has won the Kentucky Derby three times. ''It will change the way we train and the way jockeys ride. It may even alter the way we breed them.''
 For researchers and veterinarians, synthetic tracks are a significant, if long overdue, step to preventing fatal injuries to racehorses.
 Mick Peterson, a mechanical engineer at the University of Maine, has spent the past four years measuring racetracks, including Keeneland, with a robotic hoof and ground-penetrating radar. He said that beyond the greater cushion that the rubber, fiber and sand mixture provides, the surfaces are more consistent throughout the track.
 ''There is not a bad step to take on these tracks,'' Peterson said. ''On dirt, I have found that there is more variability -- a hard spot here, a soft spot there. Horses can adapt to different surfaces, but they cannot adapt stride by stride at 30 miles per hour.''
 Dr. Sue Stover, who studies muscular and skeletal injuries to racehorses at the University of California at Davis, warned that the new surfaces were not a panacea for all injuries. Overtraining, undetected injuries and improper shoeing are among many contributing factors. 
 Still, Stover said, if synthetic tracks were the norm, it might greatly reduce the risk of injury when horses move from one track to another. 
 This past summer, for example, an alarming number of fatal breakdowns occurred in the opening days of meetings in Illinois and California: 16 horses were euthanized over 41 racing days at Arlington Park in suburban Chicago, and 7 were put down over the first eight days at Del Mar, near San Diego.
 ''Bone, muscles and tendons have to continually adapt and remodel themselves when horses are moved to new surfaces,'' Stover said. ''If a horse doesn't have to go through this transient period where there is a greater risk of injury, I believe we'll see a reduction of injuries.''
 Practical and economic reasons are also powering the move to synthetic surfaces. Because of a wax coating and vertical draining system, the surfaces can endure rain and fierce weather without becoming muddy or frozen. Turfway Park has missed only one day of racing -- and that was because of surrounding road conditions -- since installing Polytrack, compared with 11 canceled days the previous year. The operators have also saved $500,000 in maintenance costs. 
 Polytrack is one of several synthetic track systems, each one employing a different formula designed to achieve the same goals. 
 Keeneland owns 50 percent of the North American rights for Polytrack, but Nicholson said none of his shareholders would be enriched if the new surface were to take hold. 
 Horse breeders founded this track in 1936 with the mission of becoming a model to promote the sport. Each received their money back, but none ever received a dividend. All profits are invested back into the racetrack, its annual horse sales and charitable contributions in central Kentucky.
 ''We've always been thought of as traditionalists, sometimes for the worse,'' Nicholson said. ''But we're glad we've honored the tradition of giving anything we can back to the horses and the sport. Horses are what we're here for, and we believe this surface is going to go a long way in keeping them safe.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Keeneland's operators installed Polytrack, a surface made from recycled rubber and silica sand, to reduce catastrophic injuries to racehorses. (Photo by Keeneland)
 Roughly 22,000 fans attended opening day at Keeneland on Friday, when Lordly won the first race on an $8 million synthetic track. (Photo by Ed Reinke/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (90%); HORSE RACING (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); NASCAR RACING (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (66%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (56%) Horse Racing

COMPANY: CAESARS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (51%)

TICKER: CZR (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (51%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (51%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (51%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (51%)

PERSON: Joe Drape

GEOGRAPHIC: LEXINGTON, KY, USA (79%) KENTUCKY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



190 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 444 words

HEADLINE: Football's Place on Campus 

 BODY:

To the Sports Editor:
 Selena Roberts has latched on to the first success that the Rutgers football team has had in order to heap scorn upon it (''Football Grows, and Students Go the Way of the T. Rex,'' Oct. 1). 
 There is no doubt that the commercialization of college football is something that can spiral out of control and that the severe financial crisis at Rutgers is a concern.
But blaming the football program for the ills of the university is unjustified. The problem with Rutgers's football program is not its newfound success, but rather 30 years of mediocrity. With success comes the prospect of wider exposure through nationally televised games and engagement from alumni like me, who were lured by ''the siren song of a supersize football program.''
 What the university needs during this difficult time is something for its students and alumni to rally around. The football team is providing this. It is as much a part of the college experience as pulling an all-nighter and skipping the occasional Dinosaurs class.

Greg Prager
Cugy, Switzerland

To the Sports Editor:
 Selena Roberts is sadly right that the wholesale elimination of nonrevenue sports at universities like Rutgers is a national shame. But she obscures the actual reasons that mostly men's teams are on the chopping block: the federal government's onerous Title IX gender restrictions. As the Rutgers athletic director, Robert E. Mulcahy III, told the campus newspaper about Title IX, ''You have to meet the proportionality test, and when we went to that test, we had to cut almost all men's sports.''
 Satisfying Title IX's quota is an inflexible demand, with or without a football team and no matter the size of the budget.
 Surveying students on their interest in athletics is one fair and reasonable way to offer opportunity. But bashing college football to mask the shortcomings of Title IX does a disservice to all student-athletes.

Eric Pearson
Washington

The writer is executive director of the College Sports Council, a national coalition of sports associations.

To the Sports Editor:
 Collegiate athletics is a corrupt venture. The tragic thing to me is that we exploit athletes. They neither get an education nor do the overwhelming majority make it into the ranks of the professionals. After four years of college, they have nothing to show for their efforts. And the salaries paid to coaches are obscene. I have always been treated well at Rutgers. But when coaches are paid in the seven-figure range, I find it too much. In my mind, universities should emphasize other virtues.

Gerald N. Grob
New Brunswick, N.J.

The writer is professor emeritus of the history of medicine at Rutgers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); SPORTS (89%); WRITERS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); ATHLETES (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); SPORTS REVENUES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (56%) Football; Finances

ORGANIZATION: Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey 

PERSON: Greg Prager

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



191 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 219 words

HEADLINE: Two Men Shot, One Fatally, In Brooklyn

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ and ANN FARMER

 BODY:
Two men were wounded, one fatally, in separate shootings in Brooklyn, the police said yesterday.
 Sam Smith, 24, died after being shot once in the neck and leg on Friday afternoon inside a friend's second-floor apartment at 857 Schenck Avenue in New Lots, according to the police. 
The police were called to the six-story building, part of the Boulevard Houses, about 4:50 p.m. Mr. Smith, who friends and neighbors said was unemployed, was pronounced dead on arrival at Brookdale Hospital Medical Center at 5:15 p.m., the police said.
 Details of the shooting were unclear yesterday.
 Mr. Smith lived on Barbey Street with relatives less than a block away.
 There are no arrests and no suspects, the police said, adding that they did not have a motive for the shooting. A neighbor, Grace Rollock, 54, a school crossing guard, said she was inside her apartment when she heard one gunshot and then a few minutes later, several more. 
 She said she did not know the residents where the shooting occurred.
 In the other shooting, a 23-year-old man was hit twice in the chest at Sullivan Place and Bedford Avenue. 
 The police were called at 1:05 a.m. and the man, who was not immediately identified, was taken to Kings County Hospital Center, where he was listed in critical but stable condition yesterday, the police said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (92%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%) Murders and Attempted Murders

PERSON: Anthony Ramirez; Ann Farmer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



192 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5520 words

HEADLINE: Religion Trumps Regulation As Legal Exemptions Grow

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES; Andrew Lehren conducted computer analysis for this series, and Donna Anderson provided online research assistance.

 BODY:
At any moment, state inspectors can step uninvited into one of the three child care centers that Ethel White runs in Auburn, Ala., to make sure they meet state requirements intended to ensure that the children are safe. There must be continuing training for the staff. Her nurseries must have two sinks, one exclusively for food preparation. All cabinets must have safety locks. Medications for the children must be kept under lock and key, and refrigerated.
 The Rev. Ray Fuson of the Harvest Temple Church of God in Montgomery, Ala., does not have to worry about unannounced state inspections at the day care center his church runs. Alabama exempts church day care programs from state licensing requirements, which were tightened after almost a dozen children died in licensed and unlicensed day care centers in the state in two years.
 The differences do not end there. As an employer, Ms. White must comply with the civil rights laws; if employees feel mistreated, they can take the center to court. Religious organizations, including Pastor Fuson's, are protected by the courts from almost all lawsuits filed by their ministers or other religious staff members, no matter how unfairly those employees think they have been treated. 
 And if you are curious about how Ms. White's nonprofit center uses its public grants and donations, read the financial statements she is required to file each year with the Internal Revenue Service. There are no I.R.S. reports from Harvest Temple. Federal law does not require churches to file them.
 Far more than an hourlong stretch of highway separates these two busy, cheerful day care centers. Ms. White's center operates in the world occupied by most American organizations. As a religious ministry, Pastor Fuson's center does not. 
 In recent years, many politicians and commentators have cited what they consider a nationwide ''war on religion'' that exposes religious organizations to hostility and discrimination. But such organizations -- from mainline Presbyterian and Methodist churches to mosques to synagogues to Hindu temples -- enjoy an abundance of exemptions from regulations and taxes. And the number is multiplying rapidly.
 Some of the exceptions have existed for much of the nation's history, originally devised for Christian churches but expanded to other faiths as the nation has become more religiously diverse. But many have been granted in just the last 15 years -- sometimes added to legislation, anonymously and with little attention, much as are the widely criticized ''earmarks'' benefiting other special interests. 
 An analysis by The New York Times of laws passed since 1989 shows that more than 200 special arrangements, protections or exemptions for religious groups or their adherents were tucked into Congressional legislation, covering topics ranging from pensions to immigration to land use. New breaks have also been provided by a host of pivotal court decisions at the state and federal level, and by numerous rule changes in almost every department and agency of the executive branch.
 The special breaks amount to ''a sort of religious affirmative action program,'' said John Witte Jr., director of the Center for the Study of Law and Religion at the Emory University law school. 
 Professor Witte added: ''Separation of church and state was certainly part of American law when many of today's public opinion makers were in school. But separation of church and state is no longer the law of the land.''
 The changes reflect, in part, the growing political influence of religious groups and the growing presence of conservatives in the courts and regulatory agencies. But these tax and regulatory breaks have been endorsed by politicians of both major political parties, by judges around the country, and at all levels of government.
 ''The religious community has a lot of pull, and senators are very deferential to this kind of legislation,'' said Richard R. Hammar, the editor of Church Law & Tax Report and an accountant with law and divinity degrees from Harvard.
 As a result of these special breaks, religious organizations of all faiths stand in a position that American businesses -- and the thousands of nonprofit groups without that ''religious'' label -- can only envy. And the new breaks come at a time when many religious organizations are expanding into activities -- from day care centers to funeral homes, from ice cream parlors to fitness clubs, from bookstores to broadcasters -- that compete with these same businesses and nonprofit organizations.
 Religious organizations are exempt from many federal, state and local laws and regulations covering social services, including addiction treatment centers and child care, like those in Alabama.
 Federal law gives religious congregations unique tools to challenge government restrictions on the way they use their land. Consequently, land-use restrictions that are a result of longstanding public demands for open space or historic preservation may be trumped by a religious ministry's construction plans, as in a current dispute in Boulder County, Colo. 
 Exemptions in the civil rights laws protect religious employers from all legal complaints about faith-based preferences in hiring. The courts have shielded them from many complaints about other forms of discrimination, whether based on race, nationality, age, gender, medical condition or sexual orientation. And most religious organizations have been exempted from federal laws meant to protect pensions and to provide unemployment benefits.
 Governments have been as generous with tax breaks as with regulatory exemptions. Congress has imposed limits on the I.R.S.'s ability to audit churches, synagogues and other religious congregations. And beyond the federal income tax exemption they share with all nonprofit groups, houses of worship have long been granted an exemption from local property taxes in every state. 
 As religious activities expand far beyond weekly worship, that venerable tax break is expanding, too. In recent years, a church-run fitness center with a tanning bed and video arcade in Minnesota, a biblical theme park in Florida, a ministry's 1,800-acre training retreat and conference center in Michigan, religious broadcasters' transmission towers in Washington State, and housing for teachers at church-run schools in Alaska have all been granted tax breaks by local officials -- or, when they balked, by the courts or state legislators.
 These organizations and their leaders still rely on public services -- police and fire protection, street lights and storm drains, highway and bridge maintenance, food and drug inspections, national defense. But their tax exemptions shift the cost of providing those benefits onto other citizens. The total cost nationwide is not known, because no one keeps track.

When Values Collide
 Few Americans dispute the value of protecting religious liberty. The framers of the Constitution opened the First Amendment of the Bill of Rights with language preserving religious freedom with two clear goals in mind, constitutional scholars agree. 
 First, they wanted to assure that everyone, even members of small and possibly unpopular sects, could practice their faith without fearing the kind of persecution that many had experienced in their home countries, where a dominant religion was allied with the state. Just as important, the framers wanted to prevent the government from ever being captive to a particular religion or set of beliefs at the expense of people of other faiths.
 Over the last two centuries, many scholars say, this tradition of religious freedom and tolerance, a radical concept in the 18th century, has helped this country avoid the spasms of sectarian violence that have erupted in countries from Ireland to India and attracted immigrants bringing talents from across the world. 
 Some legal scholars and judges see the special breaks for religious groups as a way to prevent government from infringing on those religious freedoms.
 ''Never forget that the exercise of religion is a constitutionally protected activity,'' said Douglas Laycock, a law professor at the University of Michigan who has written and testified in support of greater legislative protection for religious liberty. ''Regulation imposes burdens on the free exercise of religion. Exemptions lift those burdens.'' He added, ''That is constitutionally a good thing.''
 Precious as protecting religious freedom is, however, there are cases where these special breaks collide with other values important in this country -- like extending the protections of government to all citizens and sharing the responsibilities of society fairly.
 Religious organizations defend the exemptions as a way to recognize the benefits religious groups have provided -- operating schools, orphanages, old-age homes and hospitals long before social welfare and education were widely seen as the responsibility of government.
 But while ministries that run soup kitchens and homeless shelters benefit from these exemptions, secular nonprofits serving the same needy people often do not. And rather than just rewarding charitable works that benefit society, these breaks are equally available to religious organizations that provide no charitable services to anyone. 
 Similarly, religious nonprofit groups that run nationwide broadcasting networks, produce best-selling publications or showcase a charismatic leader's books and speeches can take advantage of exemptions that are not available to secular nonprofit groups -- not to mention for-profit companies -- engaged in the same activities.
 Any government oversight of religious groups must fit within the First Amendment's command that ''Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof.'' 
 For most of the past half-century, courts interpreted the first part of that clause as a barrier to government action that seemed to treat religious groups more favorably than secular ones, legal scholars said. But today, many lawyers agree, courts are taking a more accommodating view of government actions that benefit religious groups. 
 The willingness of the federal courts to accept these arrangements increased considerably under the influence of William H. Rehnquist when he was chief justice of the Supreme Court, said Derek H. Davis, until recently the director of the J. M. Dawson Institute of Church-State Studies at Baylor University in Waco, Tex. 
 ''Clearly, we're going to be in this accommodative mode for some time,'' added Mr. Davis, who sees Chief Justice Rehnquist's successor, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., and Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. as likely to follow in Chief Justice Rehnquist's footsteps on cases affecting religious groups.
 The problem is, efforts to protect the free exercise of religion can clash with efforts to assure that religion is not favored by the government.
 Besides regulatory exemptions and special tax breaks, some of which have been in place for decades, religious organizations have recently become eligible for an increasing stream of federal grants and contracts from state and federal governments. This policy shift began in 1996 under President Clinton, and has continued with greater force under President Bush. Known in the Bush administration as the Faith Based Initiative, it has drawn considerable attention in political, religious and academic circles.
 But the broader tapestry of regulatory and tax exemptions for religious groups has gone largely unacknowledged. Indeed, some religious leaders and politicians -- focusing not on these special accommodations but on issues like the display of religious icons on public land -- argue that religious groups in America are targets of antagonism, not favoritism. House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois, in introducing a legislative agenda last July, said, ''Radical courts have attempted to gut our religious freedom and redefine the value system on which America was built.'' 
 In March, hundreds of people and a number of influential lawmakers attended a conference called ''The War on Christians and the Values Voter in 2006'' in Washington and applauded the premise that religion was under attack.
 Society ''treats Christianity like a second-class superstition,'' Tom DeLay, then a Republican representative from Texas, told the crowd. ''Seen from that perspective, of course there is a war on religion.''
 The argument that religious groups are victims of discrimination drew a sigh from Ms. White, the day care director in Alabama, where licensed day care centers are finding it harder to compete with unlicensed faith-based centers that do not have to comply with expensive licensing requirements.
 James E. Long, a deputy attorney general for Alabama's department of human resources, acknowledged that licensed day care operators have complained time and again that the exemption is unfair. ''But I am unaware of any bill ever having been introduced'' that would eliminate it, Mr. Long said. ''That would be a very contentious issue. I'm sure the churches would want to be heard on that.''

Breaks for Social Services
 On an early summer day at the Harvest Temple Church of God in Montgomery, a lively group of older children tossed soccer balls around a dim, cool gymnasium. In a smaller room to the side, staff members rocked sleeping infants and comforted cranky toddlers. 
 This bustling church-based center, next to the church sanctuary in a well-tended middle-class neighborhood, covers its costs and helps support the work of the church, the church pastor said.
 ''We have talked about getting licensed before in the past, but it would cost us quite a bit of money,'' Pastor Fuson said. The staff would probably be large enough to meet state standards, he said, but the center would need costly renovations to upgrade the facilities. 
 Ms. White, whose licensed program, Auburn Daycare Centers, has become nationally accredited during her tenure, understands how demanding the state requirements are. Her centers in Auburn have to comply with them, down to the specific toys required for each age group. 
 As in many states, these regulations were a response to conditions that had put young lives at risk. In Alabama alone, almost a dozen children died in day care facilities in the two years before the state began upgrading its licensing requirements in 2000.
 Ms. White said the root problem in Alabama is that there is not enough state aid for working families who need good day care. But given the state's limited resources, she said, it seems unfair that subsidies are available to unlicensed centers as well as licensed ones -- a view shared by the Federation of Child Care Centers of Alabama, which has lobbied for greater financing and universal licensing.
 Some churches in Alabama have voluntarily obtained licenses. The Rev. Paul B. Koch Jr., of First Christian Church in Huntsville, whose day care center is licensed, thinks licensing for such programs is appropriate and raises the quality of care. ''But the Christian Coalition is still strong in Alabama and this is an issue for them,'' he said.
 John W. Giles, president of the state's Christian Coalition, confirmed that his organization supported the exemption, noting that state oversight would be intrusive and was unnecessary ''because the pastors and congregations are your quality control.'' Although most of the unlicensed centers are run by Protestant churches or ministries, the exemption covers all faiths, from an Islamic preschool program in Huntsville to a Catholic parish center in Tuscaloosa.
 Eleven other states -- including Utah, Maryland, Illinois and Florida -- also have exempted religious child care programs from at least some of the rules that apply to other nonprofit programs, according to the National Child Care Information Center in Fairfax, Va.
 One state that has dropped off that list is Texas.
 In 1997, George Bush, who was the governor, pushed through legislation that exempted faith-based day care centers and addiction treatment programs from state licensing, allowing them to be monitored instead by private associations controlled by pastors, program directors and other private citizens. Other laws enacted on his watch steered more state financing to these ''alternatively accredited'' institutions.
 Fewer than a dozen child care centers and about 130 addiction treatment programs took advantage of this new alternative, according to subsequent studies. But several of these later became the focus of state investigations into complaints of physical abuse. A study by the Texas Freedom Network Education Fund, a nonprofit research organization that opposed the faith-based initiatives, found that ''the rate of confirmed cases of abuse and neglect at alternatively accredited facilities in Texas is more than 10 times that of state-licensed facilities.''
 In spring 2001, the Texas Legislature quietly allowed the alternative accreditation program for day care centers to lapse. 
 Two leading First Amendment scholars, asked about faith-based day care licensing exemptions like these, said they were unfamiliar with the practice but thought it sounded legally dubious. ''I think what you describe is unconstitutional,'' said Ira C. Lupu, a law professor at George Washington University and the co-director of legal research for the Roundtable on Religion and Social Welfare Policy, an independent project of the Rockefeller Institute of Government.
 Professor Witte, the director of Emory University's Center for the Study of Law and Religion, said in an e-mail response that he ''would frankly be surprised to find even this Supreme Court going that far.''
 However, when a group of licensed day care centers challenged the Alabama law in a federal court in mid-2001, arguing that it deprived them of their constitutional right to equal protection before the law, the group lost. 
 Judge Myron H. Thompson of United States District Court, who ruled on the case, said the state could have adopted the arrangement to avoid church-state entanglements or simply to accommodate the free exercise of religion. Indeed, he cited four other federal cases, all decided since 1988, that had upheld similar exemptions for day care centers in other states.
 In Judge Thompson's view, it is ''well settled'' constitutional law that ''the possible economic inequalities that might result from religious exemptions such as day care licensing exemptions'' are not a violation of anyone's equal-protection rights.

Exemptions From Zoning Rules
 ''When you fly in to Denver at night, you can always pick out Boulder,'' said Ben Pearlman, an athletic young lawyer who grew up there. ''It's the only one with big patches of darkness around it.''
 As one of Boulder County's three governing commissioners, the soft-spoken Mr. Pearlman talks about protecting the county's spectacular beauty as if it were a sacred trust. In 1978, the county limited intensive development to already urbanized areas, buffered by large swaths of prairie and farmland. The landscape therefore now stands in stark contrast to the spreading carpet of subdivisions, office parks and malls in neighboring counties around Denver.
 To Alan Ahlgrim, the mellow and mesmerizing preacher who founded Rocky Mountain Christian Church in eastern Boulder County in 1984, those encroaching subdivisions look like spiritual vineyards, full of families ready to be transformed by his church's call for them to become ''blessed to be a blessing'' to others.
 ''The church has never grown fast enough to suit me,'' Pastor Ahlgrim said with a grin that showed he was almost, but not quite, serious.
 But the church, one of more than 200 in the county, did grow fast enough in the last 22 years -- from about three dozen families in 1984 to more than 2,200 people today -- to burst from its original building and five subsequent expansions approved by the county. 
 Today, its enthusiastic young congregation is once again bumping up against the walls of its 106,000-square-foot home, which sits on 55 acres in an agricultural buffer zone around the small town of Niwot. It is holding multiple services to handle the overflow congregation, but its Sunday school space is full, with some classes spilling out into hallways and temporary buildings set up in a parking lot.
 Yet church members cringe at the notion of turning away newcomers. ''Who do you say no to? Do you hang a 'no vacancy' sign out front?'' asked Guy Scoma, a young father who visited the church as a lonely widower and stayed on when he met, then married, his wife, Kaarin.
 The church wants to almost double the size of its facilities so it can accommodate up to 4,500 people. The church could then provide a new children's wing, more rooms for adult classes and a gymnasium with room for two basketball courts or potluck suppers for 1,000. The new wings, linked to the existing building by spacious galleries, would be surrounded by more than 1,200 landscaped parking spaces, 60 percent more than today.
 But the county's land-use plan and zoning rules for the agricultural buffer zone where the church stands would limit any construction on the site to a single residential building. So the church cannot build without the approval of the Boulder County commissioners. And in February, after an emotional public hearing attended by more than a thousand people, Mr. Pearlman and his two fellow commissioners said no.
 ''People are always trying to develop their properties to the limits of the law and sometimes beyond,'' Mr. Pearlman said. But the worst suburban sprawl is the consequence of ''lots of little decisions that have this cumulative effect,'' he continued. ''We're trying to resist this death by a thousand cuts, and preserve the land where we can.'' 
 Like the leaders of large, fast-growing churches across the country confronting zoning restrictions on their expansion plans, Pastor Ahlgrim is unhappy. The decision ''is severely restrictive to our mission,'' he said. Like worshiping, teaching and gathering for fellowship, the practice of sharing with the community -- in this case, allowing certain outside groups to use the church when it's available -- is ''vital to our mission,'' he continued. ''When one of your core values is generosity and you are restricted from sharing what you want to share -- what God has provided -- we consider that to be a severe limitation.'' 
 The church had no choice but to go to court, he said.
 The church has sued the county under a federal land-use law enacted by Congress and signed by Bill Clinton in 2000 to protect religious organizations from capricious or discriminatory zoning restrictions by local governments. The unusual law came after a decade-long bipartisan tug-of-war between Congress and the Supreme Court.
 Before 1990, the court had generally held that any government restriction on religion must serve a compelling public interest in the least burdensome way -- a standard known as the ''strict scrutiny'' test. But in one Oregon case dealing with two Native Americans' sacramental use of peyote, an illegal drug, the majority concluded that there was nothing unconstitutional about states expecting citizens to comply with valid, neutral and generally applicable laws -- like those criminalizing peyote -- even if compliance conflicted with religious beliefs. 
 This ''Smith decision,'' Employment Division v. Smith, provoked a fierce reaction that has energized the drive for more legislative protections for religion ever since. In 1993, under pressure from a broad coalition whose members ranged from the Anti-Defamation League to the Southern Baptist Convention to the American Humanist Association, Congress adopted the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, which restored the ''strict scrutiny'' test to any federal, state or local government action affecting religious practice. A new tool had been added to the First Amendment emergency kit, although no one was quite sure how to use it.
 Then the Supreme Court tugged back. In 1997, it ruled that the religious freedom act could not be applied constitutionally to the states. In reaction, 13 states have subsequently adopted similar measures of their own. But Congress thought the decision left room for it to address zoning restrictions and, separately, religious restrictions imposed on prisoners. 
 In 2000 Congress adopted and Mr. Clinton signed the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act, which restored the ''strict scrutiny'' test to local zoning decisions, making it easier for churches to challenge those decisions in court. The act also made it easier for prisoners to challenge restrictions on their religious practices. 
 The provisions that apply to prisoners have been upheld, but the Supreme Court has not yet ruled on the land-use provisions that Rocky Mountain Christian Church is invoking in its lawsuit against Boulder County. One of the church's allies in the fight is the Justice Department's civil rights division, which is defending the law's constitutionality in cases around the country.
 Defenders of the law say that some cases invoking its protections have addressed actions by local governments that seem to reflect blatant religious bias. For example, Rabbi Joseph Konikov of Orlando, Fla., successfully sued his local government under the law in 2002 after county officials repeatedly cited and fined him for holding small worship services in his suburban home, in violation of a zoning provision later found to be an unconstitutional burden on religious freedom. 
 ''It was like Communist Russia,'' said Rabbi Konikov, who said his grandfather had fled the Soviet Union to escape religious oppression. He has continued to hold services in his home. ''It was very satisfying to see that, at the end, our Constitution and our American values and freedoms came through for us.'' 
 Other zoning challenges, all invoking the 2000 law, have been filed by a Sikh society that wants to build a temple in a low-density residential area of Yuba City, Calif.; a Hindu congregation seeking permission to expand its temple and cultural center on a busy highway in Bridgewater, N.J.; and a Muslim organization that has been trying for years to build a mosque on land that the local government in Wayne Township, N.J., now wants to buy for open space.

Seeking a Protective Balance
 Critics of the 2000 law argue that the First Amendment itself has long prohibited religious discrimination in zoning, and that such zoning decisions could have been challenged just as successfully in the courts if the law had never been passed.
 When Congress considered the law, ''what was actually being discussed was 'How do we make sure churches don't get discriminated against,' '' said Marci A. Hamilton, a law professor at the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law at Yeshiva University in Manhattan and the author of ''God vs. The Gavel: Religion and the Rule of Law'' (Cambridge University Press, 2005), which calls for closer scrutiny of some religious exemptions, especially those affecting land use and family law. 
 ''Unfortunately, the answer was to give such an expansive remedy that not only are they not getting discriminated against, but they are now capable of discriminating against all other landowners,'' added Professor Hamilton, who is advising Boulder County in its case.
 The financial stakes in the Boulder lawsuit are large.
 Under the 2000 law, if the county loses, it will have to pay not only its own legal bills but also those of the church. If the church loses, it will sacrifice the money it has spent on legal, architectural and public relations fees, but it will not be required to pay the county's legal bills. And unlike the county, it could seek free legal help from various religious advocacy groups, although it has not yet done so. 
 While a county victory might provide other local governments with a template for defending against similar challenges, some lawyers fear that if Boulder County, with its long history of careful land-use planning and its environmentally demanding voters, cannot successfully argue that preserving open space is a ''compelling public interest,'' few local governments could.
 ''Religious institutions have realized that land-use authorities are vulnerable to the threat of litigation,'' David Evan Hughes, the deputy county attorney, asserted in the county's court filings. Without greater clarity from the courts, he continued, the new law's reach ''will expand to the point where religious institutions are effectively dictating their own land-use regulations.''
 Like most Boulder County residents, several church members said they cherish the open space preserved by the county's past land-use decisions. But they think the county was wrong to reject the church's proposal.
 Lanny Pinchuk, a church member who formerly served on the county planning board, praised all that the county has done to preserve the environment. ''But you can't keep people from coming to the religious institution of their choice,'' he said. ''I feel that is just, well, un-American.''
 Church leaders and members said their current proposal was the ''forever plan,'' the last expansion the church would make on this site.
 But they all struggled to explain why it is an unconstitutional burden for them to have to turn away newcomers now when, if they continue to grow, they will inevitably have to turn away people when their ''forever'' building is full.
 ''At some point, we're going to have to say we can't accommodate any more; I mean, we're not going to have a 100-story building over there,'' said Gerry Witt, a founding church member who has recently put his house on the market so he and his wife, Carole, can move to a less developed area on the western slope of the Rockies.
 ''So is there any limit?'' He thought a moment, then answered his question. ''Yes,'' he said. ''There's God's limit. When he says, 'You're at your limit,' that's when we will stop.''

In God's Name
 Articles in this four-part series examine how American religious organizations benefit from an increasingly accommodating government.


Examples are drawn from the following laws:
103rd Congress, 1993, HR 1308 and 103rd Congress, 1994, HR 4230

10
Immigration
Created a temporary program that set aside visas exclusively for clergy members and other foreign religious workers. Adopted in 1990, the program has been extended through 2008.

Examples are drawn from the following laws:
101st Congress, 1990, Section 151 of S 358

13
Workplace
Blocked proposed federal rules barring harassment on the basis of religion in 1993, saying they restricted religious freedom, and adopted other laws affecting workers, including a provision allowing a military reservist who becomes ''a regular or ordained minister'' to be discharged on request.

Examples are drawn from the following laws
103rd Congress, 1994, Section 12682 of S 2182

16
Pensions and benefits
Adopted numerous laws to accommodate church retirement plans, which were exempted from federal pension laws in 1974, and approved a special amnesty plan for clergy members who had withdrawn from the Social Security system for religious reasons.

Examples are drawn from the following laws:
106th Congress, 1999, Section 403 of HR 1180

22
Social services
Allowed pervasively religious groups to get federal contracts to provide social services without altering their character or governance, starting with the landmark ''Charitable Choice'' provision in the welfare reform act of 1996.

Examples are drawn from the following laws:
104th Congress, 1996, Section 104(b) of HR 3734

25
Persecution abroad
Protested specific cases of religious persecution and created agencies to monitor and prevent it, such as the International Religious Freedom Commission and a State Department office to monitor and combat global anti-Semitism.

Examples are drawn from the following laws:
105th Congress, 1998, HR 2431 and 108th Congress, 2004, S 2292

31
Health
Adopted exemptions and special rules to accommodate various religion-based health care practices, including a provision that exempted religious health plans from laws requiring all government-paid plans providing drug benefits to include contraceptives.

Examples are drawn from the following laws:
106th Congress, 1999, Section 635 of HR 2490

37
Land use and property
Adopted laws to benefit or protect religious property owners, chiefly the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act of 2000, addressing discriminatory zoning, and including a law that toughened the penalties for arson or other willful damage to religious property.

Examples are drawn from the following laws
106th Congress, 2000, S 2869 and 104th Congress, 1996, HR 3525

40
Education
Approved tax and regulatory breaks for religious schools, including an exemption for colleges with a history of religious pacifism from a rule denying federal aid to schools that bar military recruiters and R.O.T.C. units from campus.

Examples are drawn from the following laws:
106th Congress, 1999, Section 983(c) of S 1059

(pgs. 26, 27)

CORRECTION-DATE: October 10, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Sunday about the expansion of legal exemptions for religious organizations referred imprecisely to the academic credentials of Richard R. Hammar, a lawyer and accountant specializing in church law and taxation who discussed the political influence of the religious groups. Although Mr. Hammar attended the Harvard Divinity School, he does not have a divinity degree.

GRAPHIC: Photos: NO EXEMPTION AVAILABLE -- The child care centers that Ethel White, above, runs in Auburn, Ala., must comply with many laws and regulations that apply to secular nonprofit organizations. But religious organizations providing the same services have been exempted. (Photo by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)(pg. 26)
EXEMPTIONS AVAILABLE -- Federal law gives religious organizations unique ways to challenge government restrictions on how they use their land or buildings. In Boulder County, Colo., the Rocky Mountain Christian Church, above, is using a new federal law to fight a county decision preventing it from expanding on land designated for open space. Below, Rabbi Joseph Konikov of Orlando, Fla., successfully sued under the law so he could continue to hold worship services in his suburban home. (Photo by Matthew Staver for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. 27)Chart: ''Laws for the Faithful: Counting the Ways''Since 1989, more than 200 provisions granting accommodations or protections specifically to religious groups, their employees and their members have been woven into laws passed by Congress, on topics from taxes to immigration to education, a computer analysis by The New York Times finds. The following shows the number of provisions addressing various topics, with examples for each category.8TaxesApproved several laws affecting income taxes and other payroll deductions for clergy members and other religious workers, including an income tax break for retired ministers who get pensions from church retirement plans.Examples are drawn from the following laws:108th Congress, 2004, Section 422(a) of HR 7439Religiouis practicesEstablished explicit protections for religious practices, both in general through the Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993, and specifically in bills like one legalizing the sacramental use of peyote, an illegal drug, by American Indians.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); CHILD CARE (91%); CHILDREN (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); LITIGATION (88%); LEGISLATION (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (75%); CHURCH & STATE (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); DISCRIMINATION (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (71%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); LICENSES & PERMITS (69%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (68%); CIVIL RIGHTS (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (65%); HISTORY (62%); IMMIGRATION (50%) Religion and Churches; Surveys and Series; Church-State Relations; Taxation; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Law and Legislation; States (US); Religion and Churches

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (54%)

PERSON: Diana B Henriques

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) ALABAMA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



193 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: Labor Goes Door to Door To Rally Suburban Voters 

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: COLUMBUS, Ohio 

 BODY:
After being outhustled by Republicans in voter turnout drives in recent years, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. plans to spend $40 million nationwide on voter education and turnout, emphasizing swing states like Minnesota, Missouri, Ohio and Pennsylvania.
 In addition, just as conservatives used referendums on same-sex marriage to mobilize voters in 2004, labor has helped put measures to raise the state minimum wage on the ballot in Ohio and three other states, an effort that union officials hope will draw low-income voters.
Unions may not feel the economic wind at their back, but they feel good about this year's campaign as they tap into worker discontent over stagnant wages, shuttered factories, shrinking pensions and the soaring trade deficit.
 ''What we're seeing is dozens of races that are so close that they're really going to be decided on the ground,'' said the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., John J. Sweeney, ''and I think that's where we're going to make the difference.'' 
 With Democrats trying to win control of the House, unions are focusing on 56 House races, including five in Ohio. Labor is also working hard on the Senate race here, backing Representative Sherrod Brown, a critic of free-trade pacts, in his bid to unseat Mike DeWine, a Republican.
 Despite labor's stepped-up efforts, Republicans voice confidence about Nov. 7.
 ''In 2004, Ken Mehlman and the George Bush turnout operation showed they are better than labor, and they've only improved things since then,'' said Carl Forti, a spokesman for the National Republican Congressional Committee.
 Yet, Republicans acknowledge that unions are a formidable force.
 ''Democrats outsource a lot of their turnout efforts to labor,'' said Mike DuHaime, political director of the Republican National Committee. ''For a long time, labor did a better job than we did. But for the last two or three election cycles, we've been able to compete with them and do a better job.''
 Not long ago, Republicans began borrowing many a page from labor, but now unions are borrowing from the Republicans' playbook.
 Traditionally strongest in urban areas, unions are devoting more energy than ever to workers in suburbs and even exurbs. Labor is focusing on the ''drop-off voter,'' making sure that union members who vote in presidential elections but not in midterm elections go to the polls.
 In another initiative, unions are campaigning among a group that has largely been off limits to them under federal law, nonunion workers. The federation has figured out a way to reach those workers, sending canvassers door to door to sign up 1.5 million nonunion workers, including 700,000 Ohioans, to join a new A.F.L. affiliate, Working America, with an eye to having them vote for labor-endorsed candidates. 
 ''There are more than 1.5 million labor voters in Ohio,'' said Karen Ackerman, political director of the federation, pointing to union members, union retirees, members of union households and members of Working America. ''Organized labor is single-handedly the largest voting bloc in Ohio.''
 Ms. Ackerman predicted that these labor voters would represent 35 percent of Ohio voters this year, though just 15 percent of Ohio workers belong to unions.
 Thanks to the explosive growth of Working America here, some Democrats say their party will receive a bigger boost from labor in Ohio than in any other state.
 Mabel Sorrell, a $6-an-hour supermarket worker in Columbus, joined Working America -- it is free -- saying it helped her learn about issues like the minimum wage. When Jesse Kloth, one of labor's many foot soldiers here, knocked on her door, Ms. Sorrell initially voiced support for Representative Deborah Pryce, a Republican facing her toughest re-election race in a decade. By the time Mr. Kloth finished his five-minute visit, Ms. Sorrell seemed to be leaning against Ms. Pryce. 
 ''I now mainly see political commercials that don't tell you much,'' Ms. Sorrell, a widowed mother of four, said. ''It's good to have people explain things to you in person.''
 Labor is focusing on Ohio, union leaders say, because it has many union members, because factory closings have unsettled workers and because Ohio could hold the key to the 2008 presidential election, just as it did in 2004. Adding to labor's confidence is a corruption scandal that has rocked Republicans in state government. ''I think the majority of people are ready for a change,'' John Russo, president of a steelworkers local in Canton, said. ''They're fed up. They see the way the economy is going. They see too many manufacturing jobs being lost.''
 Democrats like Mr. Brown and Ms. Pryce's opponent, Mary Jo Kilroy, welcome the help. A spokesman for Ms. Pryce, George Rasley, gave grudging praise, saying, ''Labor's support is the only reason Kilroy is even in the game.''
 Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, praised labor's member-to-member communication. 
 ''They're spending $40 million,'' Mr. Emanuel said, ''and if it's spent strategically and smart, which labor knows how to do, I think it will be significant.'' 
 The get-out-the-vote drive faces problems. Many union presidents in Ohio prefer to focus on the governor's race, eager to put a Democrat in the statehouse. Parent unions in Washington want the foot soldiers to focus on House and Senate races. 
 Some union leaders are frustrated that there are more undecided union members and fewer volunteers than they would like, partly because this is a midterm election.
 ''Every family is stretched so thin, you have two people working in just about every household, so it's not easy for people to find time to volunteer,'' said Mike McNichol, a union official at the Hoover vacuum cleaner plant in North Canton.
 Moreover, the schism in labor, with seven unions quitting the A.F.L.-C.I.O., has complicated efforts. Several breakaway unions, most notably the Teamsters, are not letting the federation send political mailings to its members or knock on their doors.
 Still, there is cooperation. The federation telephone bank in Cleveland was run from the local headquarters of the United Food and Commercial Workers, which quit the federation in 2005. 
 When Bob Harper, a steelworker at a giant Timken steel mill in Canton, handed out union-produced fliers shortly after sunup, he encountered some workers who were receptive but others who were not.
 Scott Harding, an electrician at the mill, did not seem ready to be swayed when he took a flier praising Ted Strickland, the Democratic candidate for governor.
 ''I make my own decisions,'' Mr. Harding said. ''I don't know where Strickland is on the Second Amendment,'' a reference to the right to bear arms.
 Labor's strategy is to urge workers to focus on pocketbook issues like employment, health care and pensions, and not same-sex marriage and gun rights, issues they call Republican distractions.
 Mr. McNichol, the union official at Hoover, hardly sounded optimistic. ''We shouldn't underestimate the Republican Party's ability to get their core members out to vote,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: At the A.F.L.-C.I.O. office in Columbus, Ohio, members gathered materials for neighborhood canvassing. (Photo by Michael Houghton for The New York Times)
 Cindy King, right, hands election literature to Tom Boyer outside the Timken steel plant in Canton, Ohio. (Photo by Barney Taxel for the New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (96%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); SUBURBS (84%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); OUTSOURCING (76%); MINIMUM WAGE (76%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); MARRIAGE (57%); GAYS & LESBIANS (57%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (57%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (94%) American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations; Working America

PERSON: SHERROD BROWN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) Steven Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (92%) OHIO, USA (97%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (97%) United States; Minnesota; Missouri; Ohio; Pennsylvania; United States

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



194 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: Democrat Poised to Become First Muslim in Congress

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS 

 BODY:
Keith Ellison, the Democratic candidate for Congress here, strode among the stalls of exotically printed fabric, telephone cards and sweet tea at a Somali mall, shaking hands with his fellow Muslims. 
 ''The community showed up big!'' Mr. Ellison, 43, said, dispensing hugs as he thanked the many immigrant Somalis whose votes had helped him beat six other candidates in a primary race in September.
Mr. Ellison, a stocky criminal defense lawyer who converted to Islam in college, is expected by experts to make history on Election Day by becoming the first Muslim elected to Congress, as well as the first black representative from Minnesota.
 ''If he wins, he will take the oath of office on a Koran,'' Ali Ahmed, a social services worker, said as he wandered through the Karmel Square mall, a popular shopping and social destination for Somali immigrants. 
 ''Our main concern is that Muslims are treated differently from Christians,'' Mr. Ahmed said. ''So he can show that we are all the same people.''
 The Fifth Congressional District is a Democratic citadel. The last Republican to represent it lost re-election in 1962. 
 Mr. Ellison's Republican opponent, Alan Fine, has made a concerted effort to discredit him for previous ties to the Nation of Islam, the radical group founded by Louis Farrakhan, but experts do not expect Mr. Fine to pose a serious challenge.
 Though Mr. Ellison usually mentions his faith on the campaign trail only when asked, his candidacy has amounted to something of a political awakening among Muslims tired of being vilified since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. 
 ''They were resistant to voting because a lot of them thought it wouldn't make a difference,'' said Abdisalam Adam, the director of a Somali cultural center who helped send scores of volunteers door to door to bring out voters in the primary. ''This is the first time we saw people get excited and identify with the issues.''
 Mr. Ellison's progressive positions, including support for universal health coverage, raising the minimum wage and withdrawing the troops from Iraq, cemented his appeal among a broad swath of Democrats in this liberal district. 
 But political analysts and community organizers say African-Americans and Muslim immigrants here secured Mr. Ellison's 7,000-vote margin on Sept. 12. 
 ''This is the way we build political power,'' Mr. Ellison told supporters. ''They can't ignore us anymore when we show up to vote.''
 There are far larger communities of Muslims in the United States, with the overall population estimates ranging from three million to more than six million American Muslims. But few other Congressional districts have such a high concentration. 
 Somalis started arriving here in 1993 as refugees fleeing the civil war in their country. Their number has grown to 120,000, with one-fourth in the Fifth District, Mr. Adam said. He estimated that 80 percent of the Somalis who voted in the primary cast ballots for the first time. ''The Somali community is probably the least educated and the least organized in terms of having any experience with democracy,'' he said.
 Mr. Ellison brushes off the idea that he was motivated to run for Congress to become the first Muslim or first black from Minnesota. Rather it was to change policy, he said, to fight in the manner of the beloved Senator Paul Wellstone against a Republican administration that marginalized the poor and minorities.
 Energizing black Muslims or immigrants, Mr. Ellison said, is a side benefit. ''I've never sat down and said, 'Gee I'm going to be the first,' '' he said, ''It holds no magic for me.'' 
 He does concede a certain element of breaking ground. 
 ''Any ethnic or religious group that is new to American politics is going to go through trouble,'' he said, reaching next to his office desk to open a book called ''Jews in American Politics.'' 
 He read aloud a passage about how Jews were vilified and blocked from political office until their expertise in various fields proved crucial to the New Deal. 
 ''It's going to be the same way for Muslims,'' he said. ''It is just going to take a while.'' 
 The campaign has been an indication of the hurdles ahead. The primary turned nasty in May, after Mr. Ellison won the endorsement from the Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party, as the Democrats are known here.
 The press and Republican blogs like MinnesotaDemocratsExposed.com unearthed problems from Mr. Ellison's past. They included late filings of income taxes and campaign finance reports, plus a raft of unpaid moving violations and parking tickets that led to a suspended driver's license. 
 Most damaging were newspaper columns that he wrote under the pen name Keith E. Hakim in 1989 and 1990, when Mr. Ellison was a law student at the University of Minnesota. One explosive column defended Mr. Farrakhan against accusations of racism. Conservatives accused Mr. Ellison of having been a local leader for the radical group.
 Mr. Ellison quickly apologized for past mistakes. He said repeatedly, including in a local synagogue, that he was distantly affiliated with the Nation of Islam for 18 months while helping to organize the Minnesota delegation to the Million Man March in Washington in 1995. 
 He said he saw the march as a way to promote personal responsibility and economic development but said he later found it pointless. 
 He also sent a letter to the Jewish Community Relations Council in Minneapolis, repudiating Mr. Farrakhan and his supporters as anti-Semitic. 
 Mr. Ellison prevailed in the primary despite the controversy because ''he had intense, loyal supporters who are not going to be chased off,'' said Lawrence Jacobs, director of the Center for the Study of Politics and Governance at the Humphrey Institute at the University of Minnesota. 
 Mr. Fine, the Republican candidate, has reignited the fight. 
 ''I'm extremely concerned about Keith Ellison, Keith Hakim, Keith X Ellison, Keith Ellison Muhammad,'' Mr. Fine said at a news conference after Mr. Ellison's victory in the primary, mocking pseudonyms that Mr. Ellison used in college. 
 Mr. Fine has repeatedly accused Mr. Ellison of being a follower of Mr. Farrakhan and of being backed by a Muslim lobbying organization that Mr. Fine said supported terrorism. 
 ''I'm personally offended as a Jew that we have a candidate like this running for U.S. Congress,'' Mr. Fine said at the news conference.
 Some Jews applauded Mr. Fine. Others said they were appalled by what they heard as inflammatory remarks. An older brother of Mr. Fine, Robert Fine, a lawyer, called Mr. Ellison to disassociate himself from the attack. 
 The Republican, a 44-year-old management lecturer at the Carleton School of Management, has been trying to clarify his remarks.
 ''This has nothing to do with his being a Muslim, this has nothing to do with his being black,'' Mr. Fine said in an interview in a coffee shop that serves as his campaign headquarters. ''This is about someone who supports people who hate. That is why he is unqualified for Congress.''
 Mr. Ellison was raised a Roman Catholic in Detroit, converting to Islam as a 19-year-old sophomore at Wayne State University. He refuses to discuss publicly his reasons, stating in snippets of interviews between campaign stops: ''I don't remember any grand epiphany. I saw no vision, no lightning on the road to Damascus.'' 
 He lives in north Minneapolis, one of the highest crime areas in the city, with his wife, Kim, a high school mathematics teacher, and their four children. 
 He said he had never met Mr. Farrakhan, but conceded that as a young man he was more taken with the message of social empowerment and figured that the accusations of anti-Semitism were just the usual slur against any black leader.
 ''It's amazing,'' Mr. Ellison said, ''that people naturally assume that there would not be a measure of anger and frustration in the black community'' over their history of exploitation here.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 14, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about Keith Ellison, who is expected to be the first Muslim in Congress, misidentified the founder of the Nation of Islam. It was Wallace D. Fard, not Louis Farrakhan. The article also misstated the name of the school where Mr. Ellison's Republican opponent, Alan Fine, is a management lecturer. It is the Carlson School of Management, not Carleton School of Management.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Keith Ellison with his daughter Amirah at his son Elijah's football game.
 Keith Ellison, second from left, of Minneapolis, became a Muslim in college. He has been criticized for previous ties to the Nation of Islam. (Photographs by James Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (94%); RELIGION (94%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); POLITICS (89%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); REFUGEES (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); CIVIL WAR (75%); LIBERALISM (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (72%); LAWYERS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); MINIMUM WAGE (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (64%) Islam; Election Issues; Elections

ORGANIZATION: NATION OF ISLAM (82%) Nation of Islam; House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: KEITH ELLISON (92%) Neil Macfarquhar; Keith Ellison; Alan Fine

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (91%) MINNESOTA, USA (93%) SOMALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%) Minnesota; Minneapolis (Minn)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



195 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1682 words

HEADLINE: Sectarian Havoc Freezes the Lives Of Young Iraqis

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE; Hosham Hussein, Omar al-Neami and Khalid al-Ansary contributed reporting.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Oct. 7 

 BODY:
In a dimly lighted living room in central Baghdad, Noor is a lonely teenage prisoner. Many of his friends have left the country, and some who have stayed have strange new habits: a Shiite acts holier-than-thou; a Sunni joins an armed gang.
 At 19, Noor is neither working nor in college. He is not even allowed outdoors.
Three and a half years after the American invasion, the relentless violence that has disfigured much of Iraqi society is hitting young Iraqis in new ways. Young people from five Baghdad neighborhoods say that their lives have shrunk to the size of their bedrooms and that their dreams have been packed away and largely forgotten. Life is lived in moments. It is no longer possible to make plans. 
 ''I can't go outside, I can't go to college,'' said Noor, sitting in the kitchen waiting for tea to boil. ''If I'm killed, it doesn't even matter because I'm dead right now.'' 
 The American military is trying to address the problem. In August, it began the most systematic series of sweeps of Baghdad since the war began, trying to make the worst neighborhoods safe for a return to normal life. It appears to be bearing some fruit, with deaths in the city down about 17 percent in August from July, according to a United Nations report based on morgue statistics.
 But violence between the sects here continues at a frantic pace, wiping out ever more of what middle ground remains. And it has left young Iraqis trying to resist its pull frozen in an impossible present with no good future in sight.
 The speed of the descent has been breathtaking. A few short months ago, Noor was taking final exams, squabbling with his little brother and hanging out at home with his friends. But violence touched the family's outer edge -- his father's business partner was killed on a desert road far from Baghdad because he was a Shiite -- and things began to unravel.
 Fearing that the man may have divulged details about them, Noor's parents accelerated their plans for Noor and his younger brother to leave Iraq. His brother was moved to the safety of northern Iraq, but Noor was forced to return after British authorities rejected his application for a student visa.
 Since coming back, he spends most days in his living room on the computer, listening to the sounds of life outside his gate. He wants to enroll in college here and even had one of his friends sneak him an application, but his parents will not let him go. Campuses are volatile mixes of sects and ethnicities, and sectarian killings of students are no longer rare.
 Before the epidemic of neighborhood assassinations began last year, it was a rare middle-class Iraqi who had a peer involved in sectarian killing. But as the killing spread, increasingly larger portions of the population have been radicalized.
 For Noor, a secular Sunni who is solidly middle class, the sectarian killing has broken squarely into his circle of friends. A friend from Adhamiya, Baghdad's Sunni Arab center, joined a neighborhood militia after his father was shot to death in front of their home. Noor heard through friends that he had set up a roadside bomb to kill Iraqi troops.
 ''He hates the Shia because they killed his father,'' said Noor, speaking in fluent English and gesturing with his hands. ''He became a different person. He became a monster.''
 It is that radicalization that most frightens Noor's mother. Most of the casualties and the perpetrators in the sectarian killing are young men, and with few jobs and no hope for justice through the government, armed gangs and militias are extremely alluring.
 ''I'm afraid he'll be drawn to certain currents,'' she said. ''There is a lot of anger inside.''
 Subtler is the changing nature of his friendships. A few of his Shiite friends feel a new passion for their identity, and he now finds it difficult to relate to them. ''They changed,'' he said. ''They talk a lot about identity.''
 ''I can't tell them my true feelings,'' he added. ''I started to expect something bad from them.''
 As little as a year ago, most Iraqis dismissed fears of sectarian war. Iraqis of different sects had always mixed, they argued, and no amount of bombing would change that. But as the texture of the violence changed from spectacular car bombs set by Sunnis to quiet killings in neighborhoods of both sects, few still cling to that belief.
 Three days a week, Safe, 21, walks around sleepy. He stands guard with a machine gun three nights a week to protect his block in the ravaged neighborhood of Dora. As a Sunni Arab, he fears Shiite death squads and policemen. Seven of his friends have been detained and beaten. He has attended more than a dozen funerals in recent months for Sunnis who have been killed.
 ''Sectarian stuff has come into our life from all doors,'' he said, speaking in quick bursts. ''I am afraid of these checkpoints. They tell you five minutes, and keep you for a month.''
 The constant battle has left a bad taste in his mouth for Shiites who strongly assert their identity. He got into a fistfight with a Shiite student at the medical school where he studies over the meaning of a Muslim holiday. His campus is in heavily Shiite eastern Baghdad, and a professor referred to the healing powers of a sacred Shiite imam during a physiology lecture this year, to the fury of the Sunni students. Even the typical Shiite jewelry, silver rings with smooth round stones, he finds irritating.
 ''When you see them, you want to throw up,'' he said, referring to chauvinist Shiites.
 Dora, once a mixed middle-class neighborhood, has been among the most lethal for Shiites over the past two years. Shiite residents report brutal killings for offenses as minor as pinning up posters of Shiite saints in shops. Now few Shiites remain.
 Safe acknowledged that Shiites were singled out, but said insurgents only went after those working with Americans. Other Shiites received threats for spying on mosques, he said.
 (He worked at an American base for two months shortly after the American invasion but was not threatened because those who were issuing them knew him, he said.) 
 For Safe, whose father died when he was young and whose mother died of cancer last year, his neighborhood watch group helps him to have a sense of purpose, to feel connected, at a time when young Iraqis are more isolated than they have ever been.
 ''If something happens, we are all just one hand,'' he said.
 While they serve as useful new social networks, the groups are largely based on sectarian identity, helping to reinforce increasingly homogeneous districts. Safe has no Shiite relatives and no plans to marry. Even if he did, he would never accept a Shiite, he said.
 As Baghdad grows increasingly divided into a Shiite east and a Sunni west along the Tigris River, neighborhood life offers few opportunities for young Shiites and Sunnis to mix.
 Every morning, Ali Wahid, 27, rides his motorbike past a dusty soccer park in the capital's largest Shiite district, Sadr City, to work in southeastern Baghdad. He holds tightly to his job, a water project that is part of the American effort here, but would never agree to go west of the Tigris, where vast swaths of Sunni neighborhoods are deadly for Shiites like him. A friend, Hamza Daraji, who does odd jobs in Sadr City, said he had not left the district in two years.
 Mr. Wahid, sitting cross-legged on the floor of his modest two-story house, says his life has improved since the American invasion. His job has allowed him to pay off debts, buy a house with his brothers and even afford to marry. 
 Fewer Sunnis are in his life now than there were when Saddam Hussein ruled. In some ways, relations then were easier, he said, because as the ruling class, the Sunnis, were less likely to lash out.
 ''Before I could joke with Sunnis about Saddam,'' he said. ''Now if I talk against him, I'm afraid they might hurt me later in a secret way.''
 The Sharqiya Secondary School in central Baghdad began the day with a prayer on Thursday. The new headmaster, a religious Shiite, took the unusual step of telling the entire student body, several hundred girls, that ''the first way we hail the Iraqi flag is by giving prayers to Muhammad and his family,'' referring to the Prophet Muhammad and his family members, whom Shiites consider to be holy. Three Armenian Christians raised the flag.
 ''We feel desperate, desperate, desperate,'' said Sena Hussein, an assistant principal whose daughter is a high school senior. The school, once known citywide for its basketball team, no longer has after-school sports, because parents consider the security situation to be too risky. Trophies in a dusty glass cabinet stand a short way from the entrance to the principal's office. Even enrollment is down. The school used to get 150 new students a year. This year it has about 60.
 Prospects for higher education for women coming of age in the capital have also dimmed. 
 Sara, a graceful 10th grader with perfect English and straight A's, will not be allowed to go to college in Iraq by her parents, who fear sectarian killings en route and on campuses themselves. The caution will cut out the mixing of young Iraqi men and women, because college is the first chance they get to be together. High schools in Iraq are single-sex institutions.
 ''The future is totally unclear for me now,'' she said, standing in the courtyard of the school as girls buzzed behind her, busily cleaning classrooms. ''I don't know what would happen to me in college. Maybe I would get killed.''
 In a conversation later on her cellphone after a Ramadan dinner, Sara confided that her family was trying to leave the country, but that if they could not get out, she would seriously think about marrying after high school. Her mother married at 24, after she had earned a degree in civil engineering.
 ''Their time was different in a thousand ways,'' she said, her young voice suddenly serious. ''It's hard for me to accept. There is no dream for me. I can't really think clearly.''
 She paused and then spoke a familiar refrain: ''I really, really want to leave Iraq.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Fear keeps Noor indoors. (pg. 1)
Three Armenian Christians saluted the Iraqi flag at a Baghdad school where the Shiite headmaster leads prayers to the Prophet Muhammad.
 Despite good grades, Sara, left, with her friend Saga, said her parents would not allow her to attend college because they feared for her safety. Noor, right, is like a prisoner in his Baghdad home. ''I can't go outside,'' he said. (Photographs by Johan Spanner/Polaris, for The New York Times)(pg. 18)Map of Baghdad highlighting the Adhamiya neighborhood. (pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); TERRORISM (71%); CHILDREN (67%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (64%) Children and Youth; Men ; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Gangs; Labor; Unemployment

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: Sabrina Tavernise

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



196 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: Anger Drives Property Rights Measures

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: PICABO, Idaho 

 BODY:
Cheeks chapped, patience thinned, Katie Breckenridge had no trouble making up her mind about an Idaho ballot measure that would make the government pay property owners if zoning rules reduce the value of their land.
 ''Do I think this is almost swinging the pendulum back too far in the other direction? I do,'' said Ms. Breckenridge, 61, a rancher just in from tending to cattle and quarter horses. ''But do I think we've got to do something to bring the balance back to property rights? I do, and I'm going to vote for it.''
More than a year after Suzette Kelo and several of her neighbors in New London, Conn., lost their battle against eminent domain in the United States Supreme Court, the backlash against the ruling has made property rights one of the most closely watched ballot issues nationwide.
 Already, 30 state legislatures have enacted restrictions on eminent domain in response to the court ruling. Now voters here and in 11 other states will consider property rights measures in November, making it the election's most prevalent ballot issue. 
 Most of the measures would limit eminent domain to some degree, while others, in Western states, would go further, imposing new restrictions on government's ability to enforce zoning laws, even if those laws are intended to reduce sprawl and improve safety.
 In the Kelo case, the Supreme Court ruled that government could transfer private land from one owner to another for the sake of economic development. But the court made a point of saying states were free to change their laws. 
 Even opponents of the ballot measures concede that support for them appears strong in public opinion polls. They predict years of court fights if the measures pass.
 ''This thing is an abomination, the way it's written, the way it's being sold,'' Nils Ribi, a City Council member in nearby Sun Valley who opposes the Idaho measure.
 Supporters of the ballot efforts in the West -- often called ''Kelo-plus'' -- say they want to stop so-called regulatory takings, the idea that government effectively takes private property when zoning laws limit how it can be used. 
 Opponents say the regulatory-takings initiatives are essentially a ruse, that they are trying to exploit anger over the Kelo decision and eminent domain to roll back zoning regulations that are critical to controlling growth, protecting the environment and preserving property values. 
 The more far-reaching proposals in the West -- in Idaho, Arizona, California and Washington State -- are citizens' initiatives supported by signature petitions, and they are often supported financially and logistically by national libertarian groups.
 This House Is My Home, a group based in Boise that is sponsoring the Idaho measure, Proposition 2, is among groups in several states that have received strong financial help from Fund for Democracy, headed by Howard S. Rich, the New York real estate investor who is chairman of the libertarian group Americans for Limited Government. As of late June, Fund for Democracy had given at least $237,000 to This House Is My Home, about two-thirds of the money raised by the group. The next filing deadline is Oct. 10.
 ''We are essentially a 'networking station' that brings together grass-roots activists, donors and community leaders who share a common interest,'' John Tillman, president of Americans for Limited Government, said in an e-mail message. ''In this case, that common interest is in restoring property rights for the average citizen.''
 Affluent outsiders have been drawn to Idaho in recent decades, lured by technology jobs, mountain recreation and abundant sunshine. Boise, the capital, has boomed, as has Sun Valley, where newcomers from California build second homes not far from ranchers who herd sheep over the Sawtooth Mountains. About two-thirds of Idaho land is under federal control, and frustration runs deep in rural areas with newcomers who, after buying their piece of paradise, try to restrict land use further in the name of preservation and environmentalism.
 ''Katie's family, my family, they did this great job of developing this country,'' said Rob Struthers, 59, Ms. Breckenridge's partner in life and work. ''Now all these people come in and say, 'Wow, what a beautiful place.' But they don't trust us to keep it that way. Instead of rewarding us, they're penalizing us.''
 In an era of sun-splashed subdivisions, land here can be a farmer's greatest asset. Mr. Ribi, the councilman, expressed some sympathy for farmers who have been ''down-zoned'' under a new county plan. 
 But Mr. Ribi, a venture capitalist, is trying to galvanize opposition to the initiative by tapping the same independent streak that may make some anti-government Idahoans interested in the measure. 
 ''These are guys on the right wing who always want local control and all of a sudden they're saying let's let these guys from Washington, D.C., and outside think tanks have control,'' Mr. Ribi said. ''That's why I think we've lost perspective.''
 If the Supreme Court ruling in the Connecticut case inflamed passions for property rights, the initiatives in the Western states are more directly rooted in events in Oregon. In 2004, Oregon voters passed a measure that allowed property owners to file claims that zoning restrictions had hurt their property value. That law, known as Measure 37, requires government to either pay for the lost value or waive the zoning rules if an owner makes a successful claim.
 About 2,400 claims totaling more than $5.6 billion have been filed since the measure was upheld in court this spring, according to the Oregon Department of Land and Conservation Development. ''Not a penny'' has been paid to property owners, said Sheila A. Martin, director of the Institute of Portland Metropolitan Studies at Portland State University. Local governments, lacking money to pay, have simply waived the zoning rules.
 But while Measure 37 grew out of frustration with Oregon's famously strict zoning rules, Idaho does not have such comprehensive restrictions. Even if some rural landowners are frustrated with new zoning rules, said Stephanie Witt, director of the Center for Public Policy at Boise State University, ''It's not like people are rebelling against this really restrictive growth management law.''
 The Castle Coalition, a property rights group that has fought for eminent domain overhauls, does not list a single ''eminent domain abuse'' case in Idaho on its Web site. It calls Idaho ''one of the best states in the country for protecting owners from eminent domain abuse.''
 John Eaton, government affairs director for the Idaho Association of Realtors, said the initiative ''blows up the stability that we have right now.''
 ''We're the property rights people but we're not going to support this,'' he said. ''This is crazy.''
 Ms. Breckenridge, dusty boots on the mat by the door, was not ready to predict how the vote might go up in swank Sun Valley or down in urban Boise. Closer to home, however, she was confident.
 ''Everybody that's connected to the land is going to vote for it,'' she said, ''because there's an anger, a rising anger.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Nils Ribi, a councilman in Sun Valley, opposes the Idaho initiative.
 Katie Breckenridge, who owns a ranch in Picabo, Idaho, said there was rising anger over property rights. (Photographs by Paul Hosefros for The New York Times)Chart/Map: ''Challenging Eminent Domain''In November, voters in at least 12 states will consider ballot measures to extend protections on property rights.Map of the United States highlights the following:States with measures that would limit eminent domain.States with eminent domain measures and also measures on ''regulatory takings,'' which would make governments pay for enacting zoning restrictions that reduce the value of private land.Washington has ''regulatory takings'' measures only.Note: On Sept. 30, voters in Louisiana approved a constitutional amendment limiting local governments' ability to seize private land for economic development.(Source by National Conference of State Legislatures)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY LAW (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); EMINENT DOMAIN (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ZONING (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); BALLOTS (90%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); POLITICS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); MAMMALS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); PETITIONS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); HORSES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (51%); CITIES (50%) Eminent Domain; States (US); Referendums; Law and Legislation; Election Issues; Land Use Policies; Zoning; Area Planning and Renewal; Eminent Domain

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (75%); NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (59%)

PERSON: William Yardley

GEOGRAPHIC: BOISE, ID, USA (79%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (71%) IDAHO, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New London (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



197 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1466 words

HEADLINE: RUMSFELD SHIFT LETS ARMY SEEK LARGER BUDGET

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and DAVID S. CLOUD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 7 

 BODY:
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld is allowing the Army to approach White House budget officials by itself to argue for substantial increases in resources, a significant divergence from initial plans by Mr. Rumsfeld and his inner circle to cut the Army to pay for new technology and a new way of war.
 With its troops and equipment worn down by years of fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan, the Army appears likely to receive a significant spike in its share of the Pentagon's budget request when it goes to Congress early next year. Significantly, increases to the size of the Army made by Congress since 2001, amounting to 30,000 troops, have become a permanent fixture of the force, military and Congressional officials say.
Beyond that, the Army is discussing internally whether it should expand by tens of thousands more, as some in Congress have long advocated. This time, Mr. Rumsfeld is not standing in the way. His original vision for a transformed military called for leaner, more agile forces capitalizing on the latest technological innovations. 
 Mr. Rumsfeld's current acquiescence is viewed within the Pentagon as reflecting both the reality of the Army's needs to increase its size and repair or replace current equipment and a decision not to cross swords with the service -- or with the Army's staunchest supporters in Congress. Some of them are sharply critical of the defense secretary's management of the war effort and have called for him to step aside. 
 But Mr. Rumsfeld is requiring the Army to make its own case. The defense secretary has broken Pentagon precedent by allowing the Army to make its financial case directly to the president's Office of Management and Budget, a task normally managed by the defense secretary and his staff rather than by the individual military services. The Air Force and the Navy also asked to present their budgets directly to the budget agency and the requests were granted.
 The federal government is at the point in the budget process where departments are building their budget requests, with the Office of Management and Budget overseeing the effort.
 Pentagon officials said the Army was seeking about $138 billion for the next fiscal year, compared with its $112 billion request last year. Army officials told Congress that the service was already $50 billion short in equipment when terrorists struck on Sept. 11, 2001, and that the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan would require $17.1 billion in extra spending for 2007 just to repair and replace tanks, Humvees and other gear. Money to repair and replace equipment is expected to be $13 billion in 2008 and the next five years.
 As negotiations in the Defense Department and with the Office of Management and Budget got under way to build the 2008 budget proposal, which the White House is due to submit to Congress in February, the Army took the unusual step of ignoring a deadline for submitting its central budget document, which the armed services use to explain their missions and resource requests. 
 ''This is unusual, but we are in unusual times,'' a senior Defense Department official said. The official, who said the missions assigned to the armed forces were larger than those envisioned in official Pentagon strategy and far outstrip what can be supported by current budgets, described the conundrum Mr. Rumsfeld and the Army face.
 ''Do we lower our strategy, or do we raise our resources?'' said the official, who was given anonymity to discuss budget deliberations. ''That's where we're at.''
 Army officers made the case that meeting the administration's internal preset deadline for budget proposals before the service had fully assessed its needs -- and made the case for a substantial increase -- would create a false debate over numbers that would have to be dramatically revised before the February deadline for the administration's public budget submission to Congress.
 Even with additional money and more troops, it is far from clear that the Army will be able in the near term to fulfill all of its commitments in Iraq and Afghanistan, prepare for other contingencies and keep its pledge to active-duty soldiers to give them two years at home between yearlong deployments to the war zone. Some senior Army officials are said to be advocating a growth not just of 30,000 soldiers, but of 60,000 to 80,000, and it is likely that sustained troop levels in Iraq may require a sizable recall of the National Guard to fill out future deployments there.
 Steven Kosiak, a defense budget expert at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, an independent group that monitors defense policy, said previous budget plans looking ahead to 2011 gave the Army about 25 percent of the defense budget, roughly the same level it has received for decades.
 But by pushing for a substantial increase in 2008 and for years thereafter, the Army is saying it needs a bigger share to deal with the requirements of combat in Iraq and Afghanistan, possible future wars and the need to modernize its force.
 Unlike the Air Force and the Navy, which have been cutting their total personnel substantially to save money that can be applied to operations and new weapons systems, the Army is being forced to increase its total numbers, drawing from money for overhauling equipment and for new weapons systems.
 The Air Force and Navy also have substantial mission requirements that cannot be ignored, so eventually, the question will be whether or by how much the Pentagon budget should be allowed to grow to meet the Army's rising needs. 
 Loren Thompson, an analyst at the Lexington Institute, a policy research group in Virginia, noted that the military budget was on the verge of exceeding a half trillion dollars a year, a level that, based on inflation-adjusted dollars, has been reached only three times before. Each previous time the budget reached that level, after the wars in Korea and Vietnam and after the defense buildup in the 1980's, it soon went back down.
 ''The question is, Are we going to break that glass ceiling this time?'' Mr. Thompson said. ''The future is unknowable, but I would say probably not.''
 Mr. Rumsfeld has come around to the Army's position of needing more money after a series of meetings and briefings with senior officers.
 ''The secretary said: 'Prove your case. Show me the metrics,' '' a member of Mr. Rumsfeld's policy staff said. ''The Army came in and showed him their metrics and proved their case. That's when Rumsfeld said, 'O.K. Now go over to O.M.B. and talk to them.' ''
 Mr. Rumsfeld has not publicly addressed his reasons for allowing this tactic, although it is a no-cost decision for the defense secretary, one that allows an important yet thorny issue to be raised with the White House without any specific personal commitment from him at this early stage of the debate. 
 Some Pentagon officials are frustrated that the Army is arguing for increases to pay for current missions even as it resists calls to cut its own $130 billion, 10-year investment in a next-generation weapons program called Future Combat Systems. Others express concern that the Army is using its current resources inefficiently.
 Rumsfeld supporters say the continued financing of Future Combat Systems illustrates how his agenda to use technology to overhaul the Army is still being pursued. Some of the additional money the Army is seeking would go toward another part of his plan, realigning the infantry divisions into more deployable brigades.
 Mr. Rumsfeld has opposed proposals to increase the size of the military, citing the need to contain health benefits and other personnel costs that have been eating a larger share of the defense budget.
 Congress authorized a 30,000-soldier increase in the active-duty Army after the Sept. 11 attacks that was described as a temporary measure. Army officials say they hope to reach the authorized total troop strength of 512,000 by next year. 
 Lt. Gen. Michael D. Rochelle, the Army's top personnel officer, said that number was being treated as a ''permanent floor.''
 In an interview, General Rochelle called that level ''adequate'' and said the Army ''is growing the force as quickly as we can to get to that.''
 Inside the Pentagon, officials both in the Army and in Mr. Rumsfeld's inner circle go out of their way to describe a consultative relationship between the defense secretary and senior officers. The tenor, they said, is far more constructive than it was before Mr. Rumsfeld called a retired four-star officer, Gen. Peter J. Schoomaker, from his Rocky Mountain ranch to become the Army chief of staff and rebuild relations.
 General Schoomaker, in his final year as chief, now finds himself negotiating with a strong hand as the Army carries the lion's share of the mission in Iraq.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld hoped for leaner forces. (Photo by Risto Bozovic/Associated Press)(pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (92%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%); AIR FORCES (74%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (66%); TERRORISM (64%) United States Armament and Defense; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

PERSON: Thom Shanker; David S Cloud; Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%) United States; Iraq; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



198 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 10-08-06; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: Pay for Good Behavior?

BYLINE: By James Traub. 
James Traub is a contributing writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
Ten years ago, when he signed the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act, thus ''ending welfare as we know it,'' President Bill Clinton blunted a debate over poverty that had been increasingly harmful to the Democratic Party. In fact, welfare reform proved so successful at both shrinking caseloads and reducing poverty levels that the issue lost its urgency. And for the last five years, of course, American politics has been focused on very different threats than the threat of destitution.
About 37 million Americans continue to live below the poverty line. No one living in a big city can be blind to the plight of the poor. In his second inaugural speech, in 2005, New York's mayor, Michael Bloomberg, vowed to focus on poverty reduction, and last month he announced the findings of his blue-ribbon Commission for Economic Opportunity. The panel -- not surprisingly, perhaps, given its carefully chosen name -- offered a post-ideological blueprint likely to require relatively modest increases in spending by the city as well as the federal and state governments. The report described many ways the city could more effectively spend existing funds, including apprenticeships and training for the working poor and school-based programs for students at risk of dropping out. 
 Mayor Bloomberg embraced many of the proposals and offered several more daring ones of his own. He proposed that New York become the first city in the country to offer a child-care tax credit, limited to low-income families with children under age 3. And more controversially, he vowed to raise $24 million in private donations to finance ''conditional cash transfers'' to give poor New Yorkers an incentive ''to stay in school, stay at work and stay on track to rise out of poverty.'' A mayoral aide later explained that this behaviorist approach to fighting poverty has become popular in the developing world and has had a ''phenomenal'' effect on school attendance in Mexico. (The Bloomberg administration has not stipulated how much it will pay or which behaviors it will reward.)
 The mayor's own plan drew a good deal more attention than the commission report did, perhaps because it seemed to be at odds with the report's slightly-left-of-center ethos. Heather Mac Donald, a fellow at the conservative Manhattan Institute for Policy Research, welcomed Bloomberg's implicit acceptance of the view that ''it is the underclass poor who need to change more than society or capitalism.'' At the same time, she argued that he had undermined the case for self-reliance by establishing ''an expectation among the underclass that they have a right to cash for simply conforming to the norms of civil society.'' Bloomberg responded by noting that if you could use a tax credit to ''encourage people to do certain types of economic activity,'' you could use cash just as well. 
 The mayor's idea has a conservative as well a third-world pedigree: Newt Gingrich once proposed paying children for good grades. Market-oriented conservatives proceed from the assumption that people make rational calculations of self-interest; theorists like Charles Murray and Lawrence Mead long argued that welfare payments encouraged recipients to stay on welfare rather than to work. Welfare reform eliminated that perverse incentive. Why, then, not offer affirmative incentives to engage in healthy behavior? Is there some reason you learn a lesson better from a stick than from a carrot? Or does it just offend our sense of justice to pay people to do what others do for nothing?
 The liberal objection to paying for good behavior is that it assumes that behavior lies at the root of poverty. But this argument has steadily lost ground over the last generation, and the goal of policy is now both to encourage good behavior and to connect good behavior with good opportunities.
 Moral considerations nothwithstanding, you could argue that Bloomberg's plan takes far too benign a view of the problem of self-destructive habits. ''The stress of poverty,'' the mayor said in announcing the program, ''often causes people to make decisions,'' by which he meant poor decisions. But many scholars would say that the problem runs much deeper, to the cumulative effect of ''underclass culture.'' Lollipops for good behavior will not break those shackles. 
 The problem is, What will? A conscientious program of lollipop deprivation? Lectures about the dreadful consequences of cutting school or not making child-support payments? Heather Mac Donald would have Bloomberg stop bribing the poor and instead ''call on private industry and ad councils to start a massive educational campaign about marriage.'' But why would we imagine that mere rhetoric could dislodge the deeply entrenched habits that lead to having children out of wedlock? It's true that poor people who adopt ''middle-class values'' generally succeed, but you can no more change their behavior by telling them so than you can produce democracy in the Middle East merely by preaching its virtues. The transformation of a culture is slow, arduous work, requiring material support as well as moral and intellectual renewal.
 The whole thing is reminiscent of a famous maxim coined by Daniel Patrick Moynihan: ''The central conservative truth is that it is culture, not politics, that determines the success of a society. The central liberal truth is that politics can change a culture and save it from itself.'' The central Bloombergian truth may be that in the absence of serious political energy, a modest appeal to self-interest will have to do.

 Views on government assistance to the poor: Source: The Pew Research Center for the People and the Press, September 2005. (Chart by L. Eckstein)

GRAPHIC: Photo: A welfare line in 1975. (Photograph by Gilles Peress
 Magnum Photos)Chart: ''WHAT IS OWED THE POOR?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (93%); POOR POPULATION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); FAMILY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); SCHOOL ATTENDANCE (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); TAX LAW (65%); CHILD CARE (64%) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%); BILL CLINTON (73%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; James Traub

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



199 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: Raise the Gasoline Tax? Funny, It Doesn't Sound Republican

BYLINE: By DANIEL GROSS. 
Daniel Gross writes the ''Moneybox'' column for Slate.com.

 BODY:
FOR nearly two decades, Alan Greenspan owned the biggest megaphone in Washington as chairman of the Federal Reserve. When Mr. Greenspan dispensed advice on matters economic -- interest rates, budget and tax policies, entitlements, the stock market, the best kind of mortgage -- people listened. 
 As a rule, Mr. Greenspan, a Republican by temperament and background who was reappointed twice by Bill Clinton, adhered closely to Republican orthodoxy on taxes: the lower the better. Mr. Greenspan was hardly a proponent of raising taxes on energy to encourage conservation, a policy prescription generally associated with the politicians and economists of the left. 
Until now. In late September, as he spoke to a group of business executives in Massachusetts, a question was posed as to whether he'd like to see an increase in the federal gasoline tax, which has stood at 18.4 cents a gallon since 1993. ''Yes, I would,'' Mr. Greenspan responded with atypical clarity. ''That's the way to get consumption down. It's a national security issue.''
 Mr. Greenspan isn't the only Republican-aligned economist to have discovered, or rediscovered, a fondness for higher energy taxes since leaving government service. N. Gregory Mankiw, the Harvard economist who served as chairman of President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers from 2003 to 2005, favored a higher gas tax before going to Washington, and has been banging the drum loudly for it since he left. On his blog, Mr. Mankiw has formed the Pigou Club, named for Arthur C. Pigou, the British economist credited with introducing the notion that taxes could be used to correct imperfections in the market. The roster of what Mr. Mankiw calls ''economists and pundits with the good sense to have publicly advocated higher Pigovian taxes, such as gasoline taxes or carbon taxes,'' includes some of the usual suspects -- Paul Krugman, a columnist for The New York Times, and Al Gore, for example -- as well as unusual suspects like Gary S. Becker, the economics professor and Nobel laureate at the University of Chicago. 
 Andrew A. Samwick, chief economist on the Council of Economic Advisers from July 2003 to June 2004, and a professor of economics at Dartmouth, is a member in good standing. So is Martin S. Feldstein, the intellectual godfather of a generation of Republican economists. In June, Mr. Feldstein laid out his own Pigovian plan on the home page of Republican economic orthodoxy -- the Wall Street Journal editorial page. The government, Mr. Feldstein said, should essentially ration gas by distributing tradable gas rights that entitle people to use gasoline. Those who don't want to use them could sell them, and those who want to drive more would buy them. ''The 50-cent price of the T.G.R. would have the same incentive effect as a 50-cent gasoline tax,'' he wrote.
 What gives? Clearly, there is an emerging consensus among economists -- right and left -- that the nation would be better off, geopolitically and economically, if Americans used less gasoline. ''Given the role that imported oil plays today, you can't continue to be a responsible economist and not talk about ways to reduce that dependence,'' Mr. Samwick said. ''If you are concerned about the external consequences of imported oil, then you should raise the cost of it.'' And free-market economists view a higher gas tax as a more elegant solution than, for example, raising auto efficiency standards. 
 Others chalk up the rising chorus for a higher gas tax to a growing unity among economists across the political spectrum on the deleterious effects of global warming. ''The U.S. has reasonable arguments for not signing the Kyoto treaty, but we need to propose some other measure that will help reduce emissions,'' said Kenneth Rogoff, former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund and professor of economics at Harvard. A sharply higher tax on gas would help reduce consumption, and hence emissions.
 But as much as Republican-leaning economists like Messrs. Greenspan, Mankiw and Samwick may think that it's a good idea, the Republican politicians who control the levers of power in Washington think that it's an awfully bad one, even though gas taxes in the United States are far lower than those in other industrialized countries. According to the International Energy Agency, American gas taxes in August were a mere 40 cents a gallon on average, compared with $4.24 a gallon in Britain and $3.99 in Germany. 
 The last increase in the federal gas tax was enacted as part of the so-called deficit reduction act of 1993, a package of spending cuts and tax hikes that didn't receive a single Republican vote in Congress. And because President Bush and his top political advisers are known to be adamantly opposed to any increase in the gas tax, economic advisers haven't pushed it much. ''We didn't have policy discussions about raising the gas tax,'' Mr. Samwick recalls of his time in the White House.
 THIS highlights a professional hazard faced by academic economists who serve in presidential administrations. They must act as team players who value the overall success of the administration -- even if they don't agree with all of its policies. As a result, economists must often stow some of their policy ideas in an intellectual coat check at the White House gates, where they can be reclaimed upon return to private life. 
 In the 1990's, during the less-disciplined Clinton years, it was relatively common for economic policy makers and advisers to publicly disagree -- sometimes loudly -- about issues ranging from health care to welfare reform.
 ''We were allowed to advocate for our ideas, both inside and to some degree outside,'' said Brad DeLong, who served as deputy assistant secretary for economic policy at the Treasury Department from 1993 to 1995 and is now a professor of economics at the University of California, Berkeley. ''But that's not the way the current system works.'' 
 When it comes to economic policy, the Bush administration has proved itself to be an intellectually regimented environment, less like the Harvard economics department and more like the Harvard crew team.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Tax Break''Gasoline tax rates in the United States are very low compared to those in other industrialized countries.AVERAGE GASOLINE TAXES PER GALLONAUGUST 2006Britain: $4.24Germany: 3.99France: 3.80Italy: 3.75Japan: 2.07Canada: 1.03U.S.: .40 (Includes state and federal taxes)(Source by International Energy Agency)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); FUEL TAX (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); GASOLINE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (88%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); TAX LAW (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%) Taxation; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Taxation

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (59%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (93%); BILL CLINTON (72%); AL GORE (58%); PAUL KRUGMAN (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Daniel Gross; Alan Greenspan; N Gregory Mankiw; Andrew A Samwick

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (74%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (78%); GERMANY (74%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006



200 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: How Office Politics and Real Politics Can Mix

BYLINE: By KELLEY HOLLAND

 BODY:
MEMBERS of Congress have fled Washington for the campaign trail. Political ads are hitting television screens, and pundits are placing odds on how many Congressional seats the Democrats can gain. It's election season again -- but you wouldn't know it in many offices.
 People bring a lot of personal baggage to work. I have heard about colleagues' troubles with breastfeeding, their arguments with spouses and their most private career plans. I used to overhear a colleague managing his personal finances from his office phone.
But people tend to stop sharing when it comes to the voting booth, even when the Iraq war is front-page news every day and Democratic and Republican leaders are practically spitting at each other. Apparently, breastfeeding and marital spats are fair game, but revealing political beliefs is often just too much.
 Most managers are only too happy to have the relative quiet. They worry about claims of harassment and discrimination if political discussions overheat, and they don't want debates to get in the way of teamwork. So they issue general edicts requiring that conversations be civil and respectful; in many offices, all that remains are muted exchanges about the least controversial current events. 
 ''Nothing belongs at work that becomes disruptive or impacts performance,'' and political discussions at work have the potential to polarize employees, said Richard Chaifetz, chief executive of ComPsych, a company based in Chicago that provides employee assistance programs.
 Certainly, it can be risky to open up a political discussion with a colleague whose views are unknown. If a lifelong Republican finds that his buddy in the next cubicle over has been protesting the Iraq war since before it began, it can put a damper on their friendship and their working relationship.
 Even offhand comments can offend, particularly in a large multinational company. At one such business, as an international conference call was ending, an employee who thought that the microphone was off expressed the hope that one country's expanded nuclear program would enable it to do harm to another country. A fellow participant in the call, based in another region, took offense and filed a complaint, a company official close to the event said.
 Sometimes the repercussions may go beyond complaints. Lynne Gobbell, a plant worker in Moulton, Ala., said she was fired in 2004 for having a pro-John Kerry bumper sticker on her car. (She was not unemployed for long, though. After hearing of the incident, Senator Kerry called the woman and offered her a job in his campaign.)
 Most employees in the private sector have little or no legal protection against discrimination related to political activity or even to political speech. They can even be fired or turned down for a job for their political beliefs, according to several legal experts.
 Except for employees in a few states, including New York, and a few cities, as well as workers elsewhere who belong to unions that give them protections for political speech, ''you start with the premise that there are no real speech rights and the employer can regulate it,'' said Jill L. Rosenberg, an employment lawyer in New York with the law firm Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe.
 But employees and managers who are too guarded about discussing politics at work may be missing something. 
 Companies can benefit from political talk if teamwork improves as employees bond over shared political interests. Employees, in turn, can be exposed to a broader range of views and experiences than they are likely to find in their circle of friends or their family, so they have a chance to learn about new ideas and perspectives. And because workplaces have rules against confrontational, harassing or discriminatory behavior, even colleagues with wildly divergent views can have civilized, or at least calm, discussions.
 ''The conversations in the workplace fill a really critical niche in translating private opinions into public opinion,'' said Cynthia L. Estlund, a professor at the New York University School of Law. ''You're exposed to new ideas, and it's all in an environment with some constraints. You can't just get up and scream at people -- you have to work with them the next day.'' 
 Indeed, the office and the factory floor are second only to the home as the place where people talk most about social and civic ideas, Professor Estlund said.
 Political discussions are more than just tolerated at Google. It regularly invites speakers to its main campus in Mountain View, Calif., and while most of them come to discuss technical issues, the company has also played host to luminaries who happen to have strong political views, like the billionaire financier George Soros. 
 Google employees also operate several online mailing lists for discussions of a variety of topics -- mostly related to engineering and technology, though at least one is political. A Google employee who has seen it says the viewpoints expressed are all over the political map.
 Google is trying to foster ''as open an environment as possible,'' because collaboration and conversation are integral to its corporate culture, said Laszlo Bock, who oversees Google's human resources department as vice president for people operations. The company does not advocate a particular political viewpoint, he says, ''but for people who are here, having political conversations is part of your responsibility as a member of a democracy and it is a positive thing to have. 
 ''The conversations themselves are useful and productive, and people learn from them,'' he added. ''I truly believe it is part of what makes a democracy work.''
 Some employers encourage employees to be politically involved. Outten & Golden, an employment law firm in Manhattan, gave employees a week of paid leave to work on the 2004 presidential campaign, said Wayne N. Outten, the managing partner. 
 The firm's policy on political discussions in the office, written by Mr. Outten, begins by celebrating its ''casual, sometimes jocular and occasionally irreverent atmosphere and culture.'' It urges employees to be sensitive about off-color language and profanity, and says discussions with people outside the firm or in the firm's public areas should be ''circumspect and professional.'' But it also specifies that private conversations among people who would not be offended can be freer.
 ''Part of having a lot of smart and interested people working together is the opportunity to discus current events and things of interest, and we try to have a workplace that represents all of those things,'' Mr. Outten said.
 AS Outten & Golden's policy indicates, context matters. It is one thing for a few friends to talk in the office cafeteria about the midterm elections, and another for a manager to confront an employee about his or her views on, say, Israel's conflict with Hezbollah. Politics is also too touchy a subject for most job interviews.
 Companies may find themselves contending with more political talk in the future. At diversity workshops run by the FutureWork Institute, a consulting firm specializing in workplace issues, participants increasingly cite political beliefs as central to their identity, said Margaret Regan, the president and chief executive.
 ''Both religion and politics are coming to the fore,'' she said, ''as people talk about bringing their whole self to work.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by James Yang)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BREASTFEEDING (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); CONFERENCE CALLS (75%); IRAQ WAR (74%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (73%); DISCRIMINATION (72%); WORKPLACE PROGRAMS (70%); DISMISSALS (70%); EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS (65%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (62%) Labor

ORGANIZATION: Google Inc; Outten & Golden

PERSON: Kelley Holland

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006

 
