

1 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: Looking For Signs Of Stability In Job Tally

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
THE softening economy is hitting us where we live, but so far there has been little discernible impact on where we work.
 Employment has proved far more resilient than the housing market, and one strategist expects the new batch of data this week on job creation to show continued stability. 
Brett Hammond, chief investment strategist at TIAA-CREF, the fund manager in New York, estimates that the economy added 115,000 jobs in March, less than the 130,000 forecast in a Bloomberg News poll of economists.
 A figure of 115,000 on Friday would fit in with Mr. Hammond's view that economic activity is likely to remain sluggish. He expects the G.D.P. to rise only about 2 percent this year -- compared with a 2.5 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter of last year.
 Still, he said, that should be enough growth to keep the job market in balance.
 Current job seekers, he said, include homeowners looking to extricate themselves from trouble as mortgage rates rise and home prices appear vulnerable to a decline.
 ''In an odd way, we may be seeing people taking second jobs to make ends meet on the housing side,'' Mr. Hammond said. ''I can't prove it from the macroeconomic data, but I'm pretty sure it's happening. We might be seeing overemployment from people trying to cope.''
 The stock market, he said, should be able to cope better with a job number that exceeds forecasts rather than one that misses the mark. 
 While Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, told Congress last week that inflation remained the Fed's chief concern, he also signaled an intention by the central bank to be more flexible in its credit policy. That means that a strong report may allow investors to reap the gain without feeling too much pain, Mr. Hammond said. 
 ''If you had an indication that the economy was going to start improving fairly significantly,'' Mr. Hammond said, ''the market might be quite happy because the Fed has indicated that it has changed its stance and is leaning more toward easing.''
 Investors faced with strong job data ''won't believe that the Fed is going to tighten, and it may ease sometime later this year,'' he said.
 Using the same logic, he cautioned that stocks could fall ''if we get terrific disappointment in the job number, combined with a downward revision'' in job creation reported for February.
 Mr. Hammond stressed that he expects numbers that are not a lot higher or lower than the consensus. After the recent losses and volatility in the stock market, he added, a lack of extremes would be quite positive.''I'm maintaining a neutral stance,'' he said, ''but that's better than things have been for the last couple of weeks.''DATA WATCH -- Activity in the nation's factories is predicted to have edged closer to the middle of the road in March. The Bloomberg poll forecasts a reading of 51.1 in the Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing survey, down from 52.3 in February.
 A reading of 50 indicates that manufacturing is neither expanding nor contracting.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (76%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); HOME PRICES (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); BONDS (71%); MORTGAGE RATES (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (67%) Stocks and Bonds; Labor; Unemployment; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (57%); TEACHERS INSURANCE & ANNUITY ASSOCIATION - COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Labor Department (US); Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (57%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%) Conrad De Aenlle

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



2 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3215 words

HEADLINE: The End of the Line as They Know It

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
TALK to Kenneth Doolittle about General Motors, where he once supervised a team of assembly line workers, and he readily speaks with pride about his job and the self-esteem it provided. ''I loved all of it -- the people, the work,'' he says. ''I was in a position finally where people listened to me when I spoke. I wasn't just a Joe-Nobody. I contributed.''
 Talk to Mr. Doolittle a little longer and he gradually describes why he decided to take a buyout from G.M. -- joining more than 80,000 Big Three employees in the largest exodus of workers from a single American industry in decades.
After G.M. shuttered the plant where Mr. Doolittle worked, it offered him a job back on the assembly line at another factory, an offer he pondered in silent humiliation. At 54, he considers himself ''mentally not ready to retire,'' but his union contract, and G.M.'s woes, required him to return to the assembly line and forfeit the higher rank he had worked years to secure. 
 So he decided to leave. ''I did not want to start over,'' he said, ''not after 33 1/2 years.'' 
 The exodus that Mr. Doolittle is joining is voluntary. Some have changed their minds. More than 3,000 workers who signed up over the last year to leave Ford and G.M. subsequently decided to stay. These are, after all, the highest-paying blue-collar jobs left in America. Even so, workers are departing from the auto industry en masse, escaping -- as they put it in interviews -- increasingly difficult working conditions at companies they fear will desert them.
 As the workers depart in greater numbers than either their union or their employers anticipated, the exodus becomes more than a long ledger of altered lives. It is an accounting, of course, but an accounting of the most personal and poignant sort. Communities are fragmenting, families are relocating, and years of individual choices tethered to the notion of a certain kind of job in a certain kind of place are giving way to uncertainty, regret and loss of control. 
 ''The question is, Are we seeing a final end to what we have called blue-collar aristocracy?'' asks Sheldon H. Danziger, a public policy researcher at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. ''Big Steel is gone, coal is gone, shipbuilding is gone -- all the big industrial unions are gone or going, except the auto workers. These are the people who had the strongest ability to fight, and now they seem to be giving up the struggle.'' 
 The reasons auto workers give for embracing buyouts are almost as numerous as the 18 workers interviewed for this article. Some have already departed from G.M., the first of the Big Three to offer the buyouts, and others are soon to depart from the Ford Motor Company and DaimlerChrysler. Many who left or are leaving were eligible for retirement, having already worked the necessary 30 years. Others have accepted lump-sum payments, often in the six figures, to start over again. Indeed, the voluntary nature of this exodus has made it seem softer or less apparent than the upheavals that have greeted mass layoffs in other industries.
 But the common thread running through all of the interviews is that working conditions and benefits, which had become steadily better through the 1970s and even in the 1990s, were unmistakably in decline -- and the future unpredictable. 
 Mr. Doolittle, a stocky man with a narrow mustache, joined G.M. on the assembly line in Lansing in 1973 and rose to become a leader of one of the Japanese-style work teams that first became fashionable in the American auto industry in the 1980s. By 2005, he was a ''team build coordinator'' with authority over several groups whose job it was to transfer engines from a conveyor into cars, bolt them into place and attach skeins of wires as the cars moved down an assembly line. 
 When G.M. decided to close his plant in 2005, Mr. Doolittle's seniority gave him every right to transfer to a much newer factory right next door, where G.M. is building a popular Cadillac sedan and is likely to do so for as long as Mr. Doolittle might have wanted a job. But he balked because of the change in stature that would accompany the switch. 
 Since his departure last year, he has struggled to occupy his time. Divorced, with four grown children, he divides his days between an apartment in Lansing and a trailer parked on a small lakefront plot that he owns north of the city. He has typed out on a laptop three novels ''about my life experience.'' And to make up some of his lost income -- his $36,000 pension is 60 percent of his old pay -- he works 20 hours a week, at $10 an hour, doing maintenance at Sears stores.
 ''That is just enough to keep me from watching Jerry Springer every day,'' he said. ''I don't want to sit in front of a TV; I'm too young for that.'' 
 STARTING two years ago, the Big Three announced their intention to shed tens of thousands of workers by 2008. The buyouts, negotiated with the United Automobile Workers, are an attempt to orchestrate a huge downsizing in a kindlier, more orderly manner. The offers hold out a variety of subsidies, with the announced goal to tide people over as they make the transition to other jobs and lives. 
 Ford Motor in particular has told its younger employees, through a series of job fairs, that good incomes await them in other industries, especially if they avail themselves of one of the tuition subsidies that Ford offers as a buyout option. Ford also offers departing employees a six-figure lump-sum payment, which experts at the job fairs suggest could be used to start a small business or to buy into a franchise. 
 Joe W. Laymon, Ford's vice president for corporate human resources and labor affairs, says his company has successfully used the job fairs to inform workers about opportunities and good pay elsewhere. On a more ominous note, however, he is quick to add that Ford has no other choice but to lay off or buy out workers if the company hopes to remain competitive.
 ''We believe that the Ford Motor Company will be a viable, profitable entity going forward,'' Mr. Laymon says. ''To get from where we are today to that viable, profitable entity, we will reduce the number of employees working at Ford. Now, we can do it with an involuntary action or we can do it with a combination of voluntary actions and involuntary actions.''
 Across America, more than 30 million people have been forced out of jobs since the early 1980s, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reports, and regaining lost incomes has not been easy. Nearly 50 million new jobs have been created over that same period, according to the bureau, so there are always new opportunities but more often than not at lower pay. Among those who have lost work, only a third held new jobs two years later that paid as well as those that were lost, according to the bureau's surveys of displaced workers. Another third of those displaced were in jobs that paid, on average, 15 to 20 percent less than their previous employment -- while the final third had dropped out of the labor force entirely. 
 The Census Bureau reported a jump in net migration out of Michigan last year: some 42,300 people left, up from 29,700 in 2005. That was far and away the largest outflow from the state since 1984, during the Rust Belt crisis, census data show. In some Michigan neighborhoods that have been home to auto workers, houses are now selling for less than the prices of some of the vehicles rolling off of assembly lines in Detroit, Dearborn, Lansing and elsewhere in the state. While no statistical evidence currently links the buyouts and the migration, Michigan state officials are responding as if that were the case. Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm is promising publicly financed college scholarships for all high school graduates, and she is expanding retraining programs for idled workers. ''People who had auto manufacturing in the DNA of their families for several generations,'' she says, ''are all of a sudden finding the rug pulled out from under them.'' 
 The exodus is reminiscent of the Dust Bowl migration from the prairie states in the 1930s, when unemployed farmers gave up and trekked west to California. The Dust Bowl migration, on its face, was much more brutal -- the number of displaced Okies, as they were called, was far greater than the current number of departing auto workers, and there were not corporate and public subsidies at the time to soften the hardship.
 ''The Okies did not know whether they would get to their destination before they starved to death,'' said Daniel Luria, an economist at the Michigan Manufacturing Technology Center. ''The labor market prospects for the auto workers are not good, but they have assets. They are not in danger of immediately falling into poverty.''
 Still, for all their greater means, the auto workers talk of a similar jarring sense of dislocation. The World War II economy eventually lifted the Okies to prosperity, and the buyouts may be the first step in achieving the same result for auto workers, though their fate will not be known for quite a while.
 Unionized auto workers can boast of annual wages of $60,000, built on a 40-hour work week that pays $28 or more an hour. Overtime pay helps swell wages to $80,000 or more, but overtime is steadily disappearing as the Big Three's market share declines in the post-S.U.V. era. At the same time, getting off the assembly line, with its grueling pace and mental and emotional fatigue, has become more difficult. Rising seniority once meant transfers after 10 or 15 years to easier tasks such as building seats or moving materials as a forklift driver. Many of these off-the-line jobs have been outsourced.
 Skilled auto workers -- electricians, millwrights, tool makers -- are similarly disheartened. Their skills have been hollowed out, they say. Instead of taking apart and repairing a machine's gearbox, for example, they are limited to swapping out the damaged box for a spare. The damaged box goes for repair to an outside contractor employing less expensive labor. 
 Beyond all of these specific complaints, auto workers say they fear the future. Plant closings have sown uncertainty. Some auto workers who accepted buyouts explained that they did so to lock in pensions and retiree health benefits. But they worry that these benefits may be bargained away for future retirees in contract negotiations that begin this summer.
 Younger workers, as a result, often say they see themselves as having no choice but to bail out. They have grabbed at generous college tuition payments or lump-sum payments as a bridge to what they hope will be, if not better lives, then incomes that someday will at least equal those they earned as auto workers.
 JEFFREY VITALE, 39, is in this camp. He is considering a $100,000 buyout from DaimlerChrysler as part of a package that the automaker is just now putting on the table; it was the last of the Big Three to make such an offer.
 ''Don't get me wrong,'' Mr. Vitale says. ''It is going to be hard financially to leave.'' 
 Like many younger auto workers, he has gone to college. He was on his way to becoming a public school teacher when he dropped out in the late 1980s, against his father's wishes, to become a carpenter. ''It was hard to tell a 21-year-old making $75,000 a year that you needed a college education to get a job,'' Mr. Vitale recalls. 
 A decade ago, he left carpentry and went to work for Chrysler at the Jefferson North assembly plant in Detroit. As a skilled millwright, his $31 an hour often brought in $80,000 a year or more, with overtime. ''I was content,'' he says. ''I was bringing home a steady, good paycheck.'' He married six years ago and he and his wife, a dance instructor, have a 3-year-old son.
 Then disillusionment crept in. Mr. Vitale found himself stuck on the second shift, working afternoon and evening hours, unable to spend much time with his family. Periodic layoffs of less-senior workers have kept him close to the bottom of the seniority ladder, which means that he has not been able to qualify for the more desirable day shift.
 The outsourcing of skilled work -- in his case, maintenance of conveyors and machinery -- also grates. ''I think they will build cars in this plant for a long time,'' he says, ''but they won't utilize in-house skills as they have in the past.'' 
 Two years ago, he was injured. A Jeep he was helping to push back onto a conveyor slipped off and pinned him. He spent 10 months at home convalescing from shoulder injuries that required two operations. 
 ''That is when I realized I did not want to come back to the factory,'' Mr. Vitale says. ''I checked out my college transcript; I needed seven more courses, 21 credits, for a bachelor's degree, and I've been doing the course work online.''
 He expects to graduate in December, qualified to work as a physical therapist, a profession not likely to pay as much as he now earns, and certainly not with the same benefits. For that reason, he hesitates to leave, but the Chrysler buyout proposals include, in his case, six months of health insurance on top of a $100,000 payment. 
 ''I'm halfway decided to take the money and go,'' he says. ''I'll be 40 in November. Do I wait until they cut my pay in half and there is no buyout? Or they decide they don't need so many millwrights in the plant, and they let me go? They have 136 now, down from 280 ten years ago.''
 FOR her part, Leann Bies, 48, an electrician at the Ford truck plant in Dearborn, says that accepting a buyout means she will finally have a summer off. ''There comes a point in time when you want to leave,'' she says. 
 With 29 years of service, one shy of the 30 needed to retire, she qualifies for a buyout that allows her to stay home that last year while collecting 85 percent of her pay, which is $31 an hour or $65,000 annually. She then segues into a normal $36,000 pension as well as retiree health insurance, both nominally insulated from any chipping away that might take place in pending contract negotiations.
 In a future job, if she takes one, she won't even try to match her Ford salary, she says. She does not need to. Her husband continues to work at a G.M. plant. Their mortgage is paid off. The last two of her three children are in their final college years. And as an electrician with a state license, Ms. Bies says she can get work in her trade if need be. 
 Or she could take an office job. While at Ford, she earned a bachelor's degree in business leadership during her spare time. Ford paid her tuition under a program the U.A.W. negotiated. ''I am young enough to pursue another career if I choose to do so,'' she says.
 But for all of her creature comforts, Ms. Bies is angry about what she calls shoddy treatment in recent years. ''The management of this plant is very disrespectful,'' she says.
 The truck plant, a state-of-the-art operation, produces the still-popular F150 pickup, and there is constant pressure to keep the line moving. ''I came into this plant in 2003 and for two years they treated me as if I were dumber than a box of rocks,'' she says. ''You get an attitude if you are treated that way. It is an important part of my decision to leave.''
 Yet it is only after departing that some auto workers realize what they have lost. Andrew J. Vigliano, 63, is one. He worked 44 years for G.M. in Lansing, mostly on the assembly line, and he still has the wiry body of a younger man. His factory closed last year, and rather than transfer to another plant, he took a $35,000 incentive to retire.
 ''I was kind of tired of working,'' he says. ''But if you want my true opinion, if I had it to do over again, I would have stayed. I miss the people I worked with every day. Suddenly you cut that right off.'' As the buyouts continue, some auto workers have turned to jobs that were once hobbies or sidelines to replace lost income: repairing gutters, landscaping, serving as full-time pastors or working as real estate brokers, plumbers and electricians. 
 Mark Strong, 48, a stocky six-footer, his long graying hair pulled back in a ponytail, went on such a route. A decade ago, he and his brother, Tim, started a small machine shop, first in the garages of their homes in Mason, just south of Lansing, and then in an industrial park, in a small hangar-like building that Mark had constructed.
 The venture, Strong Products, has struggled. Tim, 47, a machinist, worked at the shop full time while Mark worked there during time off from his job at G.M., which he joined in 1976. When his plant closed in 2005, he elected to transfer to another plant in Lansing, then still under construction. While he waited for the plant to open, he furloughed himself from G.M. and focused on his machine shop. ''I could see then, working full time, that we could grow the business,'' he said, ''and we have.'' 
 Their operation now includes several computerized cutting machines, bought on credit, and several employees. Still, with gross revenue of only $200,000 a year, and debts more than double that amount, there is little income left for the brothers. Tim, with a wife and children, draws a salary. Mark, living alone and childless, draws much less money from the business. So when the new G.M. plant finally opened last year, he reported for work. 
 He didn't like what he found. He had risen over the years from the assembly line to materials handling, in his case delivering cylinders of chemicals at a pace that he controlled. ''As long as there was not a phone call saying some chemical was needed, I was on my own,'' he said. 
 In the new plant, chemical delivery was automated, and Mark found himself on a much more demanding schedule. He was assigned to deliver parts from the shipping bays to the assembly line at a pace set by the line's speed. He hooked his small tractor to a train of wagons, each loaded with parts, and drove them to stations along the line.
 ''Every 45 minutes to an hour another tractor-trailer would show up at the shipping bays with the already-loaded wagons inside,'' he said. ''It took me 45 minutes to get the contents to the line, leaving just enough time to get back and hook up the next load.''
 Automation and more rigorous scheduling may have improved G.M.'s efficiency, but for Mr. Strong, the change was stressful and G.M.'s buyout last year offered an escape. With 30 years under his belt, he collected a $35,000 incentive to retire and began to draw a $36,000 annual pension, or 60 percent of his old wage, along with retiree health insurance. 
 ''I would have stayed,'' he says, '' if the work was similar to the old job and if I had a wife and kids in college, which I don't have. And if I did not have this shop. It weighed in my decision to leave; I had something to do.''
 UNLIKE Mr. Strong, other displaced workers, including Mr. Doolittle, now working part time at Sears, do not have occupations that engage them. And they miss the work, the income and the way of life that defined their careers as auto workers.
 ''My children and my grandchildren will never have an opportunity to work at G.M.,'' Mr. Doolittle says. ''My dad made a good living there. So did my brother and my brothers-in-law. That is all over now. It will be 10 to 15 years before G.M. hires again, if it ever does, and at who knows what wages.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 15, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article on April 1 about the future of American auto workers referred incorrectly to an occupation for which Jeffrey Vitale, a DaimlerChrysler employee, is preparing. He is studying to be a physical therapist assistant, not a physical therapist.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kenneth Doolittle at the site of a G.M. plant in Lansing, Mich., where he worked before taking a buyout offer. Now he has a part-time job at Sears. (Photo by Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times)
Jeffrey Vitale and his son, Joshua. Mr. Vitale is weighing a $100,000 buyout offer from Chrysler. (Photo by Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times)(pg. 9)
Mark Strong, right, was already part-owner of a machine shop when he took a buyout offer from G.M.
Leann Bies with her husband, Joel. She says that at 48, she can start a new career after taking a Ford buyout. (Photographs by Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times)(pg. 10)Drawing (Drawing by Christophe Vorlet)(pg. 1)Chart: ''Big Three Buyouts''More than 81,000 employees have taken or are considering buyouts offered by the major American automakers. Highlights from the buyout packages are below.FORDNUMBER WHO ACCEPTED BUYOUTS38,000Offer extended to all union factory workers.WORKERS WHO ARE RETIRING17,000$35,000 bonus, on top of pension and benefits.$140OR,000, with pension but only six months of health care benefits.ORFor workers with 28 years, early retirement with 85 percent of wages, then full pension at 30 years.WORKERS WHO ARE NOT RETIRING21,000$100,000 lump sumOREducational tuition reimbursed up to $15,000 a year, with an annual stipend and health benefits, for four years.GENERAL MOTORSNUMBER WHO ACCEPTED BUYOUTS34,000Offer extended to all union factory workers.WORKERS WHO ARE RETIRING23,000$35,000 bonus, on top of pension and benefits.ORFor workers close to the required 30 years, early retirement with slightly reduced wages, then full pension at 30 years.WORKERS WHO ARE NOT RETIRING11,000$140,000 lump sum for workers with more than 10 years of service.$70OR,000 lump sum for workers with less than 10 years of service.CHRYSLERNUMBER WHO ACCEPTED BUYOUTSUp to 9,000All skilled workers and a fixed number of assembly line workers are eligible.WORKERS WHO ARE RETIRINGNew $70offer,000 bonus, on top of pension and benefits.WORKERS WHO ARE NOT RETIRINGNew $100offer,000 lump sum, with six months of health insurance.(Sources by the companies
 United Automobile Workers)(pg. 9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (89%); INTERVIEWS (68%); SHIPBUILDING (50%) Automobiles; Labor; Organized Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Fringe Benefits; Industry Profiles; Automobiles

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Ford Motor Co; General Motors Corp; Daimlerchrysler Ag

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: Louis Uchitelle

GEOGRAPHIC: LANSING, MI, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



3 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET: VENTURES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: Why REIT Shoppers Are Heading to the Malls

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
INVESTORS shopping for loftier returns may want to peruse the regional malls and the shopping centers -- or at least the real estate investment trusts that own them. 
 These types of properties offer among the highest returns of all REIT categories, yet they are still considered by some people to be generally undervalued. And many industry analysts predict that they will outpace the market this year, even as the growth of REITs over all is expected to decelerate after a seven-year run.
From the beginning of the year through last Thursday, REITs owning regional malls and shopping centers returned 11.98 percent and 5.23 percent, respectively, and REITs owning free-standing stores, another subsector, were up 1.34 percent, according to the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts. The retail REIT sector as a whole was up 8.31 percent. 
 By contrast, equity REITs over all -- dividend-paying companies with portfolios of property of any sort -- returned 2.14 percent, the association said, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, was nearly flat. 
 ''There is still a good deal of interest in real estate, although that will begin to attenuate at some point,'' said John J. Kriz, the managing director of real estate finance for Moody's Investors Service. But, he added, ''retail space, especially the higher-end regional mall, is one of the more stable real estate types.'' 
 Free-spending consumers and a steady economy can be thanked. Spending growth averaged 3.3 percent annually from 1990 through 2000, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and was expected to grow 3.6 percent annually from 2000 through 2010.
 ''A pretty large segment of consumers are doing well -- unemployment is low, jobs are being created -- and they like to go out and shop, whether it's for daily necessities or luxury items,'' said Ralph L. Block, the author of ''Investing in REITs'' (Bloomberg Press, 2006) and the publisher of The Essential REIT, a newsletter. ''You can't buy everything online,'' he added. 
 At the same time, developments can't seem to be built fast enough, as more retailers look to expand into new spaces to raise revenue. 
 ''Demand for space is outstripping supply,'' said David M. Fick, a managing director at Stifel Nicolaus. He noted that rent spreads, or the difference between what tenants pay for new leases and expiring leases, are increasing steadily as a result. ''There has been 20 percent average rent spreads on the higher-quality mall portfolios,'' he said, ''and on the more average-quality portfolios, high single digits.''
 Analysts say that space is tightest in the regional malls, which generally contain 400,000 to 800,000 square feet of enclosed real estate for department stores, specialty shops and, often, a food court. 
 ''They're just not building many regional malls; they're very expensive and very difficult to get approval for,'' explained Richard C. Moore, a managing director at RBC Capital Markets. ''Communities like going to them once they're in place, but they don't like them coming to their own towns, taking up enormous amounts of space and tying up traffic.''
 As a result, mall occupancy rates are high -- 93 percent, on average, not including seasonal vendors, according to Mr. Block. A decade ago, he said, the rate averaged 87 percent, he said. 
 Shopping-center REITs, which generally own open-air complexes that include community centers anchored with supermarkets or big-box retailers, have occupancy rates closer to 95 percent, on average, he said. Local approval for them, though, is generally easier to obtain. 
 The Simon Property Group, the largest retail REIT, expects to spend more than $5 billion over the next four years developing retail projects, and not one will be an enclosed mall, said Stephen E. Sterrett, the chief financial officer. 
 Instead, the company, like its competitors, has been developing more so-called lifestyle centers, which are upscale shopping complexes that mimic urban streetscapes, and adding mixed-use projects. 
 Last month, Simon opened the Domain in Austin, Tex.; it combines 700,000 square feet of retail and restaurant space with 75,000 square feet of office space and 390 residential apartments. Just north of Austin, the Round Rock Premium Outlets complex, developed through the Chelsea Property Group subsidiary that Simon acquired in 2004, was designed like a village with pedestrian courtyards and fountains. It opened last summer. 
 ''We are busier today than at any other time in our company's history at building retail projects in the United States,'' Mr. Sterrett said. ''Some of them are new; some of them are expansions of existing projects.''
 Many industry analysts give Simon high marks. ''They have a very good development pipeline, with opportunities overseas,'' Mr. Moore said, ''and a great balance sheet.'' 
 Mr. Fick agreed, adding that ''owning Chelsea will generate a significant amount of earnings growth not currently reflected in anyone's estimates.''
 He likes some of the smaller retail REITs as well, like Kite Realty and Cedar Shopping Centers, each of which focuses on neighborhood and community shopping centers, because of their development projects. And he is bullish on the retail REIT sector in general. ''The group over all will continue to beat all the major markets,'' he said.
 The Maserich Company is also on Mr. Moore's list of favored companies, because of what he called its ''very high quality portfolio.'' The company recently acquired 11 stores owned by Federated Department Stores that are in Maserich malls. And he likes the Kimco Realty Corporation, the Developers Diversified Realty Corporation and Weingarten Realty Investors -- shopping center owners that, he says, have ''good development pipelines and joint-venture relations'' with institutions like pension and endowment funds. 
 Analysts find other retail REITs attractive because of what they consider relatively low valuations, based on recent earnings reports and capitalization rates, or initial rates of return. 
 Though they have been declining, ''cap rates in retail haven't really come down to the extent that they have in other sectors,'' Mr. Block said, noting that retail REIT cap rates average about 6 percent, versus just below 5 percent for offices and around 5 percent for apartments. 
 Ross Nussbaum, a senior equity analyst at Bank of America, says regional malls, in terms of market valuations, are among ''the cheapest in the REIT sector.'' 
 But retail REITs could eventually suffer from an overbuilding of shopping centers. A downturn in the economy and higher interest rates could hurt as well. ''Retail REITs still have a fair amount of debt on their balance sheets,'' Mr. Kriz said, adding that consumers struggling with debt could also curb their spending. 
 Most analysts, however, say they think that fundamentals will remain strong for the retail sector. Some say that there may be further consolidation within the retail REIT area, which could push up share prices as investors speculate about which company will be the next takeover candidate. 
 ''We think there are a number of retail REITs that are fairly good takeover targets in the next 24 months,'' Mr. Fick said. 
 This past winter was an especially busy time for mergers and acquisitions. The Centro Properties Group, an Australian REIT, agreed to buy New Plan Excel Realty Trust, an operator of shopping centers, for about $3.4 billion in cash. In addition, Simon, along with the hedge fund Farallon Capital Management, agreed to acquire the Mills Corporation, a retail REIT, in a cash offer of $1.64 billion. Including assumed debt and preferred stock, the deal was valued at $7.9 billion. 
 Mills had been struggling financially in recent years. Its biggest drain was the Meadowlands Xanadu, a 2.2-million-square-foot shopping-and-entertainment center planned on 104 leased acres surrounding the Continental Arena in northern New Jersey. Mills has since transferred control over that project to a joint venture led by Colony Capital, a private investment firm based in Los Angeles.
 The acquisition of Mills, which was seen as dragging down the retail REIT sector with its poor returns, is considered by some analysts as yet another positive for the industry.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lenox Square in Atlanta, left, owned by Simon Property, was among the first major malls in Georgia. The Tysons Corner Center, right, a big shopping destination in the Washington area, was expanded by Macerich in 2005. Its SanTan Village, a rendering above, is to open this fall in the Phoenix area. (Photo by Macerich/Westcor)
(Photo by Simon Property)
 (Photo by Macerich) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (96%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (94%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (92%); REAL ESTATE (92%); RETAILERS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); LUXURY GOODS (71%); STATISTICS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); DIVIDENDS (68%); WRITERS (66%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (63%); JOB CREATION (62%) Retail Stores and Trade; Real Estate Investment Trusts; Shopping Centers

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (67%); BLOOMBERG LP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (56%) Simon Property Group; Kite Realty Group Trust; Cedar Shopping Centers; Maserich Co; Kimco Realty Corp; Developers Diversified Realty Corp; Weingarten Realty Investors

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: Vivian Marino

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



4 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2345 words

HEADLINE: Borrowing Trouble

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON and JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
WHEN Gregory and Paula Sherman wanted to refinance the mortgage on their ranch-style home in Chattaroy, Wash., near Spokane, in June 2003, they went to a local mortgage broker.
 The broker got them a $267,200, 30-year loan at an 8.5 percent fixed rate with NovaStar Financial.
Or so they thought. The good-faith estimate that the federal government requires mortgage brokers to give to all customers said that was the deal. But at the closing, the Shermans were handed loan documents for an adjustable-rate mortgage with a higher initial rate, of 8.625 percent, that would reset in two years. 
 They reluctantly signed the documents because they had pressing commitments to pay debts and home renovation contractors. It was only later that they discovered that their mortgage broker was paid a commission of $5,344 by NovaStar to put them into the riskier and more expensive loan. That commission added $200 to their monthly mortgage bill. 
 The Shermans filed suit in 2005 against NovaStar, a lender based in Kansas City, Mo. The suit is now part of a federal class-action lawsuit accusing the company of bait-and-switch practices that increased borrowers' costs. NovaStar, founded by a pair of entrepreneurs who rode the real estate wave hard by specializing in financing risky borrowers, faces litigants next month when the lawsuit goes to trial in federal court in the Western district of Washington.
 Documents in the case show a raft of NovaStar customers accusing the company of using hidden commissions as early as 2003 to generate high-cost loans that may have run afoul of state consumer protection rules. 
 As NovaStar fights that courtroom battle, it has become Exhibit A for anyone interested in understanding how loose the lending was among some upstart mortgage companies in the great real estate run-up of this decade. The company's troubles also reveal how willingly investors, regulators and much of Wall Street overlooked mortgage companies' questionable practices. 
 Because NovaStar is not a bank, its operations are not closely monitored by federal and state regulators. That relative lack of regulatory oversight over home mortgage lenders was the subject of heated hearings in the House and the Senate in the last two weeks. ''Regulators were supposed to be the cops on the beat, protecting hard-working Americans from unscrupulous financial actors,'' Senator Christopher J. Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Banking committee, said last week. ''Yet they were spectators for far too long.'' 
 W. Lance Anderson, president and chief operating officer of NovaStar, said in an interview last week that changes in the mortgage market had driven it to tighten lending standards and to improve its appraisal review process. ''Loans being originated today take into account those changes, and we think the 2007 vintage will perform very well,'' Mr. Anderson said. ''We need the capital markets to understand that. Capital markets dislocate from time to time. It's never fun to go through, but they do heal themselves.''
 Mr. Anderson declined to comment on the Washington lawsuit except to say that it was meritless and that NovaStar would fight it. 
 NOVASTAR jolted its investors in February when it disclosed that loans made in 2006 were defaulting at a torrid rate. A highflying stock paying a handsome dividend that made it a favorite among small investors, NovaStar lost 42 percent of its value in one day.
 But while problems at NovaStar, one of the nation's top 20 mortgage issuers, seemed to crop up suddenly, they were evident enough from 2002 to 2004 that a big mortgage insurer and two Wall Street banks stopped doing business with the company. 
 NovaStar's financial performance in those years was blinding. With Scott F. Hartman as co-founder, Mr. Anderson built NovaStar as a low-cost, low-overhead lender that relied on as many as 16,400 independent mortgage brokers across the nation. After issuing shares to the public in 1997 at a split-adjusted price of $9, the company had explosive growth. NovaStar made $2.5 billion in mortgage loans in 2002; by last year the annual figure had risen to $10.23 billion. The stock hit $70.32 in March 2004; it now trades at $5. 
 As is often the case when an industry is booming, working at NovaStar was a frenetic blur, some former employees said. The founders, who met at Saxon Mortgage in the mid-1990s, a subprime lender now owned by Morgan Stanley, complemented each other. Mr. Anderson, NovaStar's deal maker, took a freewheeling approach to the lending business, while Mr. Hartman was buttoned down, paying more attention to detail and acting as the company's relationship manager with Wall Street, former employees said. 
 As the real estate boom accelerated, lending practices loosened significantly at many companies specializing in high-risk borrowers. NovaStar was no different. A flier sent by NovaStar to mortgage brokers in 2003 highlighting its easy credit terms also noted: ''Did You Know NovaStar Offers: to Completely Ignore Consumer Credit!'' 
 The combined loan-to-value ratio in its mortgages, a measure of risk that compares the size of the total loan on a property to the underlying collateral, averaged 81.2 percent in 1998. By 2006, that figure had jumped to 87 percent. A minimum loan-to-value of 80 percent is considered prudent. 
 Like other lenders, NovaStar also eased up on the required documentation of a borrower's income during the boom. In 1998, some 35 percent of the company's mortgages did not have full borrower documentation attached to them; last year, almost 53 percent did not. 
 It is perhaps not surprising, then, that NovaStar's early payment default rate for loans underwritten in 2006 reached 8.19 percent, up from 5.61 percent in 2000.
 Until recently, though, few investors seemed concerned about NovaStar's lending practices. Perhaps they were lulled by its earnings, which grew to $132 million in 2005 from $32 million in 2001. 
 In 2002, however, the PMI Group, a leading provider of mortgage insurance to issuers, terminated its relationship with NovaStar Home Mortgage. A PMI spokeswoman declined to say why. But after NovaStar sued PMI in federal court in 2003, seeking payment on insured loans that had defaulted, the insurance company countersued, accusing NovaStar of misrepresenting borrowers' stated incomes on loans. The companies settled in 2005; terms were not disclosed.
 ''We had a disagreement over payment of some claims,'' Mr. Anderson said. ''We were pleased with the outcome of that settlement.''
 And in 2003, the ABN Amro Mortgage Group, a big mortgage lender that had bought what it said turned out to be bad NovaStar mortgages, sued the company, accusing it of fraud, breach of contract and negligence involving so-called straw borrowers and inflated appraisals. 
 Mr. Anderson said he could not recall the case or its specifics. It was settled late last year and terms were not disclosed. 
 A Lehman Brothers unit, among Wall Street's largest packagers of residential mortgage loans that it sells to investors, terminated its relationship with NovaStar Home Mortgage in 2003. It found numerous red flags on more than half the NovaStar mortgages in a batch that it reviewed. Court documents show that the Lehman unit, Aurora Loan Services, found problems that ranged from misrepresentations of employment by the borrower to overstated property values and unsubstantiated payoffs at closing.
 One loan involved a property in Ohio bought for $20,000 in August 2002 and sold two months later to NovaStar borrowers for $77,500. The average sales price in the neighborhood was $31,685 at the time.
 The appraiser on that loan stated that the property was rented for $900 a month, but Aurora found that it generated $475 in monthly rent.
 In another case, involving a property in Dayton, Ohio, the borrower was found to have overstated his income by almost 100 percent; the property value was not supported and Aurora found ''unsubstantiated payoffs made back to the borrower and the broker on this transaction.'' 
 Mr. Anderson said: ''We believe any allegations they made don't have any merit and the fact that we haven't had that problem with others speaks for itself.''
 IN 2003, problems at NovaStar Home Mortgage's branch system began turning up when it became clear that the company had not received licenses to operate in some states. That October, Massachusetts filed a cease-and-desist order against NovaStar for not having a license in the state. Nevada followed with its own order in early 2004. 
 In September 2004, the office of inspector general for the federal Housing and Urban Development Department found violations of HUD rules such as the company's hiring of independent contractors as loan officers and its practice of allowing its employees to make investments that might compete with the company.
 The HUD report said that NovaStar's branch system was meant to shift risk away from the company to the federal government. The inspector general recommended that NovaStar pay penalties in the case.
 Mr. Anderson rejected all of the audit's conclusions but said the company had been closing down the branch system anyway. He said he had not heard from HUD since then and that the company had paid no penalties as a result of the audit. NovaStar shut down its Home Mortgage branch system in mid-2006.
 While NovaStar's practices appear to have been lax, some former customers tell of what they call deceptive practices that resulted in higher-cost loans than they could have received elsewhere. 
 Gregory and Paula Sherman are two of them. Their good-faith estimate, required by HUD, listed mortgage broker compensation as zero. 
 Among the sheaf of papers they signed at the closing for their refinancing through NovaStar, they did not notice one listing a commission of $5,344 paid by the company to the mortgage broker. They would learn later that it was for persuading the couple to take out a loan at a higher interest rate. In industry parlance, the commission is known as a yield spread premium. 
 ''We had stacks and stacks and stacks of paperwork to sign,'' Mrs. Sherman, 49, recalled. ''There was no possible way we would have seen it. It was buried with everything and was included on one piece of paper in a small paragraph.'' 
 The Shermans' suit against NovaStar in late 2005, accusing the company of hiding fees paid to broker in order to increase borrowers' interest rates, was granted class-action status last year. Discovery in the case turned up a 2003 flier the company sent to brokers that indicated it encouraged them to tap into the company's capital -- its so-called warehouse line -- and not to disclose the yield spread premium. It said: ''Use Your NovaStar Warehouse Line and close in your name without disclosing YSP!'' 
 The judge overseeing the case asked NovaStar's lawyer about the practice of charging hidden commissions: ''Do you think you are going to sell that to the jury, that it wasn't a deceptive act or practice?'' 
 When the lawyer answered, ''I don't know, your honor,'' the judge said: ''I think you have an uphill grind on that one.''
 The Shermans' lawyer, Ari Y. Brown of Bergman & Frockt in Seattle, said an examination of hundreds of NovaStar loans showed the company was still not providing accurate information in good-faith estimates. Mr. Brown said at least 1,000 NovaStar customers in Washington State could be members of the class.
 If NovaStar loses, it could pay more than $10 million under the treble damages allowed by the state's consumer protection laws. 
 While that figure may seem small, NovaStar faces a potentially larger problem. Under the terms of many loans packaged by Wall Street and sold to investors, misrepresentation could allow the holders of those mortgages to force NovaStar to buy them back, according to a regulatory filing by the company. 
 ''If somebody thinks that there was a misrepresentation to the borrower, even a minor one, they can put that back to the subprime lender,'' said Richard L. Epling, a senior bankruptcy lawyer at Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman in New York. It is impossible to estimate how much that could cost the company, because many of the loans may have been refinanced or paid off or may be performing. In any case, a NovaStar spokesman said, ''We don't believe it is a plausible scenario.''
 In theory, yield spread premiums are meant to let borrowers pay a higher interest rate over time rather than pay a big sum in closing costs. But Ira Rheingold, executive director of the National Association of Consumer Advocates, said that this was not how they worked. 
 ''In the real world, yield spread premiums give the broker more money, the mortgage lender a loan with a higher-interest payment and Wall Street, which buys the loans, a higher-yielding bond to invest in,'' Mr. Rheingold said. ''Everyone is happy except the borrower.'' 
 Four years ago, officials at HUD recommended requiring greater disclosure of commissions and other fees in loans, but the proposals were attacked by lobbyists and were never instituted. A spokesman for HUD said it hopes to introduce new rules soon, but declined to say when.
 Widespread concerns about subprime lending have already battered the company. In February, NovaStar said it would not likely generate any taxable income in 2007. And in late March, it announced that it would lay off 17 percent of its work force. 
 Last week, Fitch Ratings placed NovaStar's Mortgage Servicing unit on alert for a possible downgrade. The company's ''ability to fund its ongoing servicing operation and maintain servicing quality could come under pressure,'' Fitch said. 
 Mr. Anderson said: ''I think the markets have overreacted; the pendulum has swung too far. The industry is going through a lot of changes. I think NovaStar will be a survivor.''
 Now, the go-go atmosphere at NovaStar's Kansas City headquarters is gone. Next to online job postings for loan officers are those seeking specialists in modification of problem loans and litigation.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 8, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about a class-action lawsuit over mortgage lending practices referred incorrectly to the loan-to-value ratio that is considered prudent for mortgages. It is a maximum of 80 percent, not a minimum of 80 percent. (The loan-to-value ratio is a measure of risk that compares the size of the total loan on a property to the underlying collateral.)

GRAPHIC: Photos: Paula and Gregory Sherman at their home in Chattaroy, Wash. The Shermans say their mortgage company, NovaStar Financial, did not negotiate with them in good faith. (Photo by Jeff T. Green for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Scott Hartman, left, and W. Lance Anderson founded NovaStar Financial in the late 1990s. The mortgage lender, which lost $14.4 million in the last quarter of 2006, is trying to fight off a class-action lawsuit. (Photos by David Pulliam/The Kansas City Star, left
Mike Ransdell/The Kansas City Star, right.)(pg. 6)Chart: ''Riding the Wave''NovaStar Financial, a mortgage lender that specializes in financing risky borrowers, loosened its lending practices as the real estate market grew. The company is now accused in a federal class-action lawsuit of deceiving customers.Graph tracks the daily closing of NovaStar Financial's stock price from 1998 to 2006.OCT. 31, 1997 -- NovaStar goes public.END 2002 -- PMI, a mortgage insurer, stops backing NovaStar's loans.AUG. 2003 -- A Lehman Brothers unit stops buying NovaStar's loans to put into mortgage pools.2007 -- A sharp rise is reported in the early payment default rate on 2006 loans.FEB. 21, 2007 -- NovaStar's share price plunges when the company announces a $14.4 million loss for the fourth quarter of 2006, highlighting the fact that more mortgages in 2006 were delinquent than in previous years.Graph tracks percentage of early payment defaults from 1998 to 2006.1998: 9%2006: 8%Graph tracks total loans as a percentage of property value from 1998 to 2006.1998: 81%2006: 87%Graph tracks percentage of loans made to applicants without full documentation from 1998 to 2006.1998: 35%2006: 53%(Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets [stock price]
 company reports)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); CONSUMER LAW (87%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); HOME REMODELING (73%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); ETHICS (71%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (69%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (67%); CLASS ACTIONS (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); INTERVIEWS (64%); EXECUTIVES (60%) Housing; Suits and Litigation; Ethics; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Mortgages; Consumer Protection; Housing

COMPANY: NOVATION COS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Novastar Financial

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (58%)

PERSON: BRADBURY H ANDERSON (65%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (50%) Gregory Sherman; Paula Sherman; Scott Hartman; W Lance Anderson; Gretchen Morgenson; Julie Creswell

GEOGRAPHIC: SPOKANE, WA, USA (90%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (55%) MISSOURI, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



5 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 8340 words

HEADLINE: Re-Education

BYLINE: By Ann Hulbert. 
Ann Hulbert, a contributing writer, is the author of ''Raising America: Experts, Parents and a Century of Advice About Children.''

 BODY:
I. The Student
 ''Definitely wake me up around 9!!! I have an important presentation . . . wake me up at that time please. . . . Thanks!! Meijie.''
The e-mail message, sent to me at 3:55 a.m. under the subject line ''yeah!'' was my enthusiastic welcome to Harvard from a freshman named Tang Meijie. That was last May, nine months after she arrived on campus from mainland China. Except for the ungodly hour at which the message was dashed off, you wouldn't have guessed that its author had come to Cambridge trailing accomplishments and expectations that were impressive even by Harvard standards. Nor was there obvious evidence of a student superstar in the tousled figure in a sweatshirt and khakis who appeared at the Greenhouse Cafe in the Science Center at around 10 a.m. Greeting me with a reflexive bow, as she had at our first meeting a couple of months earlier, Meijie apologized for taking a few minutes to finish up the talk she had been assigned to give that morning in one of her courses. 
 Her topic gave her away. What Meijie was editing between bites of a bacon cheeseburger and sips of coffee was a short presentation for an expository-writing class called Success Stories. The questions addressed in the course, which focused on ''what philosopher William James once called 'our national disease,' the pursuit of success,'' have become newly urgent ones in Meijie's own country. ''What is 'success'?'' the course introduction asked. ''Is it a measure of one's financial worth? Moral perfection? Popularity? How do families, schools and popular culture invite us to think about success? And how are we encouraged to think about failure?'' At Harvard, she and her classmates were discussing those issues as they read, among other things, ''The Great Gatsby'' and David Brooks on America's resume-rich ''organization kids'' and watched movies. In China, a nation on a mission to become a 21st-century incubator of ''world class'' talent, Meijie is the movie. As she progressed through her classes in the cutting-edge city of Shanghai, spent a year abroad at a private high school in Washington, D.C., and came to Harvard, she became a celebrated embodiment of China's efforts to create a new sort of student -- a student trying to expand her country's sometimes constricting vision of success.
 Downstairs in the computer room of the Science Center, Meijie showed me the thousands of Chinese citations that come up when you Google her name. ''That's very crazy,'' she said with a laugh, a girl all too familiar with the Chinese ardor for anything associated with the name Harvard. Getting in ''early action'' in December 2004 set off a media frenzy at home, where it's still relatively rare for students to enroll as undergraduates at elite American schools, and study abroad promises to provide a crucial edge in a jammed job market. A packet of press coverage her parents gave me -- Meijie rolled her eyes at the trove -- portrayed her as every Chinese parent's dream child. Child magazine accompanied photos of Meijie and her parents with counsel on how to ''raise a great child.'' The winner of no fewer than 76 prizes at the ''city level'' or above, as one article marveled, she was a model that top Chinese students themselves were dying to emulate. ''What Does Her Success Tell Us?'' read a headline on an article in The Shanghai Students' Post. ''Meijie Knocked at the Door of Harvard. Do You Want to Copy?'' asked The Morning News Express in bold Chinese characters. For months, she was besieged by journalists begging to profile her; publishers, she recalls, clamored to sign her up to write her life story and companies asked her to advertise their products. A director of Goldman Sachs's China division wanted her on the board of the private school he recently helped found, which was then under construction in an erstwhile rice field outside Shanghai.
 But what was truly exceptional about Meijie was how she responded to the adulation. The fervent worship back home made Meijie uncomfortable and anxious to clarify what she wasn't. ''Don't call me 'Harvard Girl,' '' she told one of many magazine interviewers. She was referring to a student six years ahead of her, Liu Yiting, whose arrival at Harvard in 1999 made her a huge celebrity in China when her parents published a book, ''Harvard Girl,'' describing the meticulous regimen that produced their star. It quickly sold almost a million and a half copies and inspired numerous how-to-groom-your-child-to-get-into-college-abroad knockoffs. For all her triumphs, Meijie wasn't obsessed with being at the head of the class and didn't want the well-programmed-paragon treatment. She excelled in assorted subjects, but her school reported that her overall ranking wasn't in the top 10 percent. Her parents had stood by, a little stunned, as their intrepid daughter won distinction in an unusual way, by accomplishing all kinds of things outside of the classroom.
 Amid the hoopla, Meijie insisted that the last thing Chinese students (or parents) needed was to be encouraged in their blind reverence for an academic brand name, much less be told there was some new formula to follow and competitive frenzy to join. That was just the kind of pressure they had too much of already. It was everywhere in a culture with a long tradition of rigidly hierarchical talent selection, dating back to the imperial civil-service-exam system more than a thousand years ago -- and still there in a school system driven by a daunting national college-entrance exam. The Chinese call it the gaokao, a three-day ordeal for which the preparation is arduous -- and on which a single point difference can spell radically different life options. The cramming ethos, which sets in before high school, was what Meijie had tried hard not to let erode her curiosity. In her experience, America had come to stand for a less pressured and more appealing approach to schooling. ''There is something in the American educational system that helps America hold its position in the world,'' she told me. ''Many people will think it's a cliche, but there is something huge about it, although there are a lot of flaws -- like bad public schools and other stuff. But there's something really good, and it's very different from my educational system.''
 Once at Harvard, in the fall of 2005, Meijie figured out what she wanted to do. She would try to make liberal education's ideal of well-rounded self-fulfillment ''more real in China.'' She plunged into conceiving a summer exchange program run by and for students. Meijie named it the Harvard Summit for Young Leaders in China, or Hsylc -- pronounced ''H-silk,'' evoking the historic trading route. In August 2006, on the campus of that now-completed private school outside Shanghai whose board she had joined, a cosmopolitan array of Harvard undergraduates would offer a dose of the more freewheeling American campus and classroom experience. Meijie and an inner circle of organizers (similarly on-the-go Harvard women, all of Chinese descent, some reared in the U.S.) envisaged nine days of small-group discussions on wide-ranging issues outside of math and science. Hsylc would also offer extracurricular excitement and social discovery -- chances for students to try new things and connect with one another, rather than compete for prizes. The participants that Meijie had in mind were several hundred promising Chinese high-schoolers, to be chosen in an un-Chinese way. She and a selection committee would pick them on the basis not of their G.P.A.'s but of their extracurricular activities and their essays in response to the kinds of open-ended prompts they never encountered at school. On her list was a question that might be a banality in the U.S. but was a heresy at home: ''If you could do one thing to change the world, what would it be?''
 Meijie's answer to that question -- help shake up Chinese education -- puts her in step with the latest wave of a 30-year-old government effort to overhaul China's schools and universities to keep pace with ''socialist modernization.'' After the chaos of the Cultural Revolution, when schools were closed and cadres of students assaulted ''enemies of the state,'' Deng Xiaoping resumed the National College Entrance Exam in 1977, marking the start of a radical expansion of the education system. A developing economy demanded it; the implications for politics were less clear, and after Tiananmen Square, there was a brief slowdown. The continued growth since then has been a success in many respects; educational attainments and college attendance have surged. Yet in the process, some prominent government officials have grown concerned that too many students have become the sort of stressed-out, test-acing drone who fails to acquire the skills -- creativity, flexibility, initiative, leadership -- said to be necessary in the global marketplace. ''Students are buried in an endless flood of homework and sit for one mock entrance exam after another, leaving them with heads swimming and eyes blurred,'' lamented former Vice Premier Li Lanqing in a book describing his efforts to address the problem. They arrive at college exhausted and emerge from it unenlightened -- just when the country urgently needs a talented elite of innovators, the word of the hour. A recent report from the McKinsey consulting firm, ''China's Looming Talent Shortage,'' pinpointed the alarming consequences of the country's so-called ''stuffed duck'' tradition of dry and outdated knowledge transfer: graduates lacking ''the cultural fit,'' language skills and practical experience with teamwork and projects that multinational employers in a global era are looking for.
 Even as American educators seek to emulate Asian pedagogy -- a test-centered ethos and a rigorous focus on math, science and engineering -- Chinese educators are trying to blend a Western emphasis on critical thinking, versatility and leadership into their own traditions. To put it another way, in the peremptorily utopian style typical of official Chinese directives (as well as of educationese the world over), the nation's schools must strive ''to build citizens' character in an all-round way, gear their efforts to each and every student, give full scope to students' ideological, moral, cultural and scientific potentials and raise their labor skills and physical and psychological aptitudes, achieve vibrant student development and run themselves with distinction.'' Meijie's rise to star student reflects a much-publicized government call to promote ''suzhi jiaoyu'' -- generally translated as ''quality education,'' and also sometimes as ''character education'' or ''all-round character education.'' Her story also raises important questions about the state's effort, which has been more generously backed by rhetoric than by money. The goal of change is to liberate students to pursue more fulfilling paths in a country where jobs are no longer assigned; it is also to produce the sort of flexibly skilled work force that best fits an international knowledge economy. But can personal desires and national demands be reconciled? Will the most promising students of the new era be as overburdened and regimented as before? As new opportunities have begun to emerge, so have tensions. If Meijie's own trajectory and her Hsylc brainchild are any guide, the force most likely to spur on deep-seated educational ferment in China may well turn out to be students themselves -- still struggling with stress, yet doing so in an era of greater personal independence and international openness. Overachievers of the world unite!II. The Expansion
 Brave Shanghai's traffic and head southwest for 40 minutes to the well-groomed grounds of Xiwai International School, the site of last year's Hsylc conference, and you see the broad contours of what has been happening in Chinese education. In an area that is projected to become Shanghai's biggest satellite city, new construction is everywhere and up-to-date school campuses are being built. While American leaders have been debating how best to demand more accountability from a decentralized education system, the Chinese government has decided to loosen its administrative and financial control. The process dates back 20 years now, to the Decision on the Reform of the Education System, issued in 1985 (the year Meijie was born). The push was on to consolidate the Soviet-style hyperspecialized universities into more comprehensive institutions; with the Compulsory Education Law of 1986, mandating nine years of education for all, a major expansion was also under way. In the early 1990s, the government urged an easing of exam pressures and took the step of encouraging ''social forces'' to establish private schools alongside the public system. 
 Parents whose own schooling was curtailed by the Cultural Revolution have been avid to realize their educational ambitions -- the Confucian key to social and moral advancement -- in the paths they chart for their ''little emperors,'' the singletons mandated by the one-child policy of the past quarter of a century. The pace of growth and school privatization surged in the course of the 1990s. The goal was to send 15 percent of the college-age population on to the postsecondary level -- that figure being the standard definition of ''mass higher education'' -- by 2010. Meanwhile, extra financing went to a group of top universities in a quest to make them ''world class.'' And in the new millennium, rice paddies are still making way for state-of-the-art school facilities. A nonprofit, private school, Xiwai could be mistaken for a medium-size college. Its spacious brick classroom buildings and dorms (capacity 3,500 students, from pre-K to 12th grade) flank a lovely courtyard with a fountain in the middle. At one end stand an imposing library and a dining facility, and across the way is a large arts-and-sports complex.
 ''You could say we overbuilt,'' said Xiwai's co-founder, Xu Ziwang. Boyish in his khakis and navy blazer, Xu, who is 50, has energy to match the wealth he earned as one of Goldman Sachs's first mainland Chinese partners. He has devoted both his zeal and money to establishing the school with Lin Min, Xiwai's headmaster, plowing proceeds from local real estate development into the enterprise. Theirs is a project with roots in a past that could hardly have seemed more remote on the balmy fall day the two of them proudly showed me around the one-year-old campus. Friends from their teenage years on a farm during the Cultural Revolution, Xu and Lin were sent from school to the countryside when they were about the age of the oldest Xiwai students who greeted us cheerfully on the paved pathways. The two men were among the many millions who, feverishly studying when they weren't busy at their appointed labors, swarmed to take the college-entrance exam in the first sittings in 1977 and 1978; they ended up among the few who scored high enough to secure a scarce college spot. Thirty years later, both had studied and worked abroad (Xu in the United States, Lin in Slovenia, England and New Zealand), and back home, Xu had played a big role in privatization deals. Here they stood on what had been mud, eagerly sharing their vision of a pedagogical and curricular renaissance that would produce a generation ''better than us.''
 What a fortunate cohort today's kids were, both men said: young people growing up in a booming country that had plenty of problems but also a growing middle class and expanding horizons. By 2006, China had vastly exceeded its higher-education enrollment goal; 22 percent of the college-age population -- compared with roughly 40 percent of 18- to 24-year-olds in the United States -- were receiving some form of postsecondary schooling. Yet Xu and Lin also joined in the widespread worry that Chinese youths, spared the real-life challenges their elders were forced to cope with, faced very different constraints. Hunkered down, doing endless exam-haunted schoolwork, they were constantly hovered over by their parents. In 1998, years before the McKinsey report of a talent shortage, Xu heard the wake-up call when he initiated Chinese recruiting for Goldman Sachs.
 He picked three graduates from China's top universities and was impressed that they all scored 100 percent on the exam following the associate training stint in New York -- only to be disappointed a year later, when their performance reviews were in the bottom quartiles. ''There's a price,'' he concluded, ''for 12 years of prep for an exam, and that's to always think there's a narrow, right answer. If you give precise instructions, they do well. If you define a task broadly, they get lost and ask for help.'' If he and Lin had their way, independent students eager to use their imaginations would be the dominant breed on their campus. They were counting on a rising tide of ''broad-minded'' parents eager to provide their children with the less-straitjacketed education -- a creative mix of the best of East and West -- that Xiwai preached and aimed to find teachers able to impart. But as we toured a campus plastered with exhortations to be ''global citizens'' and to ''Smile, Embrace, Communicate, Cooperate, Negotiate,'' Xu was also blunt: there are lots of obstacles, not the least of them the gaokao that exerts such sway. ''The dilemma is, everybody realized it is the problem, but nobody knows what to do.''
 Chinese routinely say they wish the exam weren't such a monolithic force, and various provinces have lately been allowed to offer their own versions. Yet bigger changes -- like Fudan University's use last year of broader criteria and a totally different test to admit some 300 students -- stir concern. In a country so huge -- and in a culture so steeped in cronyism -- the fear is that no other process could work as fairly. Meanwhile, the success of China's educational expansion hasn't eased gaokao panic, and in fact has made the secondary-school exam a newly fraught hurdle. The unforseen pressures have unfolded this way: As the number of college graduates has outpaced the growth in desirable high-level jobs, generally located in China's developed eastern region, one result has been a surge of unemployment among degree holders who resist settling for less. Along with that has come a rise in qualifications for lower-level jobs that once didn't require a college diploma.
 The situation has left students still desperately chasing elite-university credentials. A degree from the most prestigious Chinese schools, especially those given extra money in the quest for ''world class'' status (with Fudan and Jiao Tong universities in Shanghai, Peking and Tsinghua in Beijing at the pinnacle) -- or from the University of Hong Kong or, more distinctive yet, from a college abroad -- is the best shot at success in a job market where a big gap looms between top jobs and the level below. The college race has led in turn to an intensified struggle to get into the best high schools. They boast records of strong gaokao scorers and prestige university placements -- yet high schools in general haven't multiplied at the rate that colleges have. Xu wasn't alone in sighing over these strains in the system and at the same time in seeing signs of hope: real change was bound to come.III. The Experiment
 When Meijie next had time to talk, it was in early June of last year, and she was swept up in arrangements for her education summit meeting in August. Among other things she and her fellow Harvard organizers would do when they were in Shanghai (where some Chinese university students would help out, too) was handle the late batch of Hsylc applications from seniors in China's 10th-to-12th-grade high-school system. Meijie had extended the deadline for those applicants so they wouldn't have to squeeze in work on the essays -- one in English and one in Chinese -- at the height of gaokao cramming. Answering Hsylc's more creative questions would be a nice break for them, she told me at one point with a laugh and a shake of her cropped hair, and she wasn't entirely kidding. Here was a college freshman who had barely closed her own blue books and was eagerly preparing to stage a $200,000 event (financed primarily by the Goldman Sachs Foundation, thanks to guidance from Xu). Lightening burdens, that ''quality education'' goal, was not exactly on any of these students' agendas; juggling competing aspirations was more like it.
 From the start, as Shanghai pioneered quality-education experiments during Meijie's primary-school years in the early 1990s, she has been the rare student who navigated, undaunted, between China's established educational ways and the emerging opportunities and expectations. Her upbringing reflects the deep-seated zeal for schooling that fuels but also complicates reform efforts. Almost the first thing Meijie told me about her mother (a former opera singer from a musical, Westernized family) and her father (a middle-school teacher of Chinese from a more traditional background) is that ''they're very typical Chinese parents.'' By that she meant ''they really focus on my education and cultivation.''
 In China, a child's schooling is a family endeavor worthy of great sacrifice, in money and time. Over dinner in Shanghai, a melodiously voluble Mrs. Tang confirmed that ''when Meijie was very young we controlled her a lot, watched her very closely and guided her carefully. Luckily she was very cooperative and followed our instruction.'' Effort rather than ability is considered the key to achievement -- and among the most important expressions of filial piety is studying diligently (a word I heard a lot). ''If there is no dark and dogged will, there will be no shining accomplishment; if there is no dull and determined effort, there will be no brilliant achievement'' goes an old saying, invoked as soon as school starts -- a far cry from the Western progressive interest in encouraging curiosity and play in the early years. Meijie told me her mother had her memorize her primary-school textbooks (much thinner than ours). Like many children, she was also sent to lessons in music, art and calligraphy. This kind of broader training is a legacy of the Confucian focus on self-perfection, and it is in step with the Maoist notion of ''all-round development''; the emphasis is on practice and mastery, where American parents, busy enrolling their young kids in arty extras, are likely to stress self-expression and creativity.
 For the reformist vision of more individualized, active learning, this ingrained educational drive has been something of a mixed blessing. It is a great core to build on: ''quality education'' advocates are emphatic that they have no intention of jettisoning a strong Asian heritage of discipline and humble, family-oriented commitment to self-cultivation. At the same time, the traditional emphasis on arduously conformist, adult-driven, hypercompetitive academic performance -- well suited though it is to a standard class size of 40 or 50 -- can get in the way of liberating individual initiative and easing pressures.
 In her compulsory-education years, Meijie had plenty of old-style schooling -- sitting in rows, being rigorously trained in the basics by revered teachers, and excelling. This was the well-entrenched approach observed by the developmental psychologists Harold W. Stevenson and James W. Stigler in the 1980s and praised in their frequently cited 1992 book ''The Learning Gap: Why Our Schools Are Failing and What We Can Learn From Japanese and Chinese Education.'' But she received new-style broadening, too. Seeing he had an eager reader, Meijie's father began buying her books -- she remembers the series of 115 Western classics he got a deal on one summer -- in the belief that if she learned one thing from each, they were worth having. Meanwhile, in primary school, Meijie lucked into an early example of just the kind of extracurricular, community-oriented pursuit championed by Vice Premier Li. Thanks to an arrangement between her school and a Shanghai TV station, the 9-year-old Meijie was one of several top third graders tapped to produce a weekly kids' news segment, which meant skipping class to work on the clips. She ended up doing it single-handedly for three years; her classmates' parents pulled their children out, worried about school demands and exams.
 Meijie moved on to middle school in the late 1990s just as ''keypoint'' schools, which accept the best students and are better financed, were banned from using the term in the interests of greater egalitarianism (though they remain as sought-after as ever). A lottery was instituted in Shanghai to spread the stellar students around. When Meijie landed in a merely ordinary school, her parents were distraught -- and then upset when she flunked a computer-skills test. (She failed to hit ''save.'') But soon they backed off, Mrs. Tang explained, to ''let her develop herself because we saw how good she is.'' Indeed, Meijie proceeded to reap benefits beyond Vice Premier Li's dreams. ''You have time to live your own life,'' she told me, remembering the more laid-back atmosphere of her nonselect school, ''and you have your freedom to think about a lot.'' Among other things, she thought about Web design, partly to prove she was no computer dunce, but mainly because she was an unusually informed girl. Thirteen-year-old Meijie, former journalist, followed the news and was struck that in the midst of the Internet boom, ''China is too quiet and behind'' in appealing to teens. She saw a niche and focused on building one of the first popular youth sites in China. She was then recruited to help work on kids.eastday.com, a government-endorsed site with comprehensive information and services for younger teenagers.
 Up to this point, which brought her to the turn of the millennium, Meijie's experience was a preview of how less hierarchical, more flexible educational innovations might free an extroverted, quite extraordinary student -- even as it also shed light on the persistent power exerted by stringent school expectations and demanding parents. By 2001, the pace of curricular change began to pick up, with private schools often in the lead, trumpeting mottoes like ''We must put students in the center of learning and focus on cultivation of creativity.'' At Xiwai, where I sat in on a first-grade class of merely 29, there was a smart board and desks arranged, Western-style, in clusters. A lively young teacher had the kids chanting cheerfully (and perfectly) in unison, old style, but also scrambling to find partners with whom to practice their Chinese characters; the room buzzed with collaborative work, as Xiwai's administrators proudly pointed out.
 Another day, over tea and then lunch in a cafe at East China Normal University, I met Cui Yunhuo, a young professor there who has been active in the nationwide curriculum review and implementation process. He gave an upbeat account of the progress he has seen in grades one through nine in a mere five years -- though he also lamented the lack of good assessment methods. There is a wider variety of new textbooks to choose from, he explained, reporting that color had been added and outdated and often dense passages removed. Teachers are ''more at an international level,'' Cui said and gave me a booklet heavy on proclamations about the new importance placed on ''encouraging students to inquire'' and helping them ''learn to learn.'' More hands-on, project-based learning and cooperative endeavors are required. Time must also be allotted for ''comprehensive practical activities and school-based curriculum,'' which include optional courses designed by individual schools to appeal to students' interests -- a hortatory agenda hard to evaluate. At a so-called demonstration middle and high school I visited in Beijing, the vice principal extolled an environmental-studies project, which sent students to visit a waste-water recycling factory. They returned with ideas that they were eager to apply to the new campus under construction on Beijing's outskirts. Student-run clubs are now de rigueur. There are also new curbs on competition. The middle-school entrance exam has been officially abolished. Shanghai eliminated midterms in the early primary-school grades, and weekend and vacation review classes are widely discouraged.
 Yet no one pretends change is smooth. Cui worried that there hadn't been enough effort devoted to explaining the curricular shifts to parents; others point to the lack of teacher training; and everyone cites dire problems in the countryside, like a shortage of teachers. Cui also joined Yang Deguang, a former president of Shanghai Normal University and now the executive director of the Higher Education Society of China, in voicing concern that competitive duress at the top has been spreading downward. ''Don't let the children lose at the starting point'' has become a new parental slogan, Yang told me. The boom in private kindergartens had Cui worried, opposed as he is to the push for the early skill mastery and the highly structured English classes that are often their selling points. (With his own son, a fifth grader, he reported he was trying a new policy of fresh air and freedom: at 5 p.m. he sends him out of the house and tells him not to come home for an hour and a half.) Happy Cheung, who studied at the Harvard Graduate School of Education and is now the chairwoman of the Sino Capital Education Foundation in Beijing (as well as the co-host of a radio show on family education issues), told me that her fourth-grade daughter is one of the few students in her public-school class who isn't enrolled in after-school English lessons or in ''math olympics'' -- a craze that caught the attention of the Department of Education in Zhejiang Province, which canceled the olympics at the primary level, hoping to ''lower the temperature.'' In his book, Vice Premier Li warns against a vicious cycle: school efforts to diminish competition fueling a market for tutors outside of school, hired by parents as anxious as ever (or more) not to let their children get left behind -- and perhaps give them an edge by developing special talents.
 As Cheung is not the first to note, progressive ideas have a way of translating rather differently in a Chinese context. In 1919, John Dewey traveled to China, where his views on ''student centered,'' democratic education were all the rage, yet the rhetoric was fuzzy -- as much a rallying cry for political renewal as a real blueprint for school change. If there is an American figure to whom Chinese proponents of more active, multidimensional, student-centered learning have listened especially attentively over the past half-decade, it is Howard Gardner of the Harvard Graduate School of Education (with whom Cheung herself studied). His Multiple Intelligences theory, which posits various different forms of intelligence in addition to the linguistic and logical-mathematical skills usually honed and rewarded in school, has inspired a huge array of books, articles and conferences. (There are also stuffed animals marketed as good for ''interpersonal intelligence,'' music boxes for ''musical intelligence,'' etc.) His work inspired a national project, begun in 2002, ''Using M.I. Theory to Guide Discovery of Students' Potential,'' which financed efforts to implement the theory in classrooms all over the country. 
 Yet the M.I. vogue, as Cheung said over lunch, may reflect more familiar thinking than the fanfare suggests. The seemingly simple yet slippery theory readily lends itself to the homegrown tradition of ''all round'' cultivation, which is in fact informed by a quite different perspective. Where Gardner urges the individualized development of a distinctive blend of inborn abilities, she explained that his Chinese followers are prone to emphasize the structured mastery of multiple talents. Cheung brought along Zhan Wenling, a private-school principal who had toured around China in 2001 with a Ministry of Education delegation, explaining the ''quality education'' perspective. ''Confucius said that a person is not simply a container,'' Zhan exclaimed; a teacher ''should be the fire, light the match,'' and so must ''know what kind of wood you are lighting.'' But, she went on, it is not so easy for teachers to grasp the idea. The quest to promote a more student-driven ethos is also complicated by practical constraints, most notably China's huge class sizes. Promoting discussion can be a problem. Earlier, another educator had told me: ''You let them free, but it's such a big group, it's hard to get them back. It's a real challenge how to get the balance right. Now the students may ask hundreds of different questions, and our teachers have to face that, they have to be well prepared.'' A recent review of the national M.I. project turned up interesting experiments, I was told. Yet Zhan also saw resistance to less rank-oriented, more student-centered nurture. It is hard to loosen up, Vice Premier Li observed, in a culture that still reveres ancient scholars like Su Qin, who is said to have poked his thigh with the point of an awl to stay focused.
 Meijie, confronting the high-school-entrance ordeal in 2001, found herself in the vise, too. Caught up as she was with Web-related activities when she took a mock version of the four-day test, she didn't do well enough to get into Shanghai's best schools. Her parents resisted the tutoring frenzy, which has intensified lately, thanks not least to the accelerating trend of applying to college abroad. (The New Oriental Education and Technology Group, which holds sway in English-language test prep and other training, just went public in September on the New York Stock Exchange and boasts skyrocketing enrollment figures: some 100,000 signed up in 1999, and the number is now a million.) But Meijie hunkered down to study, with help from a physics and a math teacher, and once again finessed what has others tied in knots. She ended up the top scorer in her district, and among the top 10 in all of Shanghai. That secured her a spot at her dream school, Fudan Fuzhong, which translates as ''the high school affiliated with Fudan University.''
 A premier Shanghai public high school with a well-established foreign-exchange program, Fudan Fuzhong was perfect for Meijie. Thanks to its stellar student body, teachers can spend less time on review without jeopardizing exam results, and the campus bustles with clubs, optional courses, service projects. Meijie, a champion debater and student leader, was the kind of self-driven, ''quality'' personality the faculty and administrators were eager to reward: she was their unanimous choice for the privilege of a year abroad at Sidwell Friends School in Washington, D.C. While the rest of her third-year classmates sweated through gaokao cramming in 2003-4, she had an American experience that she called ''fabulous, life-changing, really core.''
 At Sidwell, Meijie was an exchange student standout -- history buff, bold field-hockey novice, social dynamo. And when she returned to China, she was convinced that an American liberal-arts education was for her. Still, she confessed that more than just her own ''passion,'' a favorite word of hers, propelled her Ivy League dream. She wasn't immune to age-old Chinese status obsession: ''The Harvard bell rings in me, too.''IV. The Event
 As she prepared for Hsylc during her freshman year in Cambridge, Meijie wasn't slowed down by concern that her Harvard-affiliated education gathering might end up reinforcing a tendency it aimed to curb: the Chinese worship of a super-academic credential, at odds with the pursue-your-own-passion drive she hoped to inspire. It was the double bind of China's reform effort in a nutshell (and a dilemma familiar to overachievers everywhere). But Hsylc was built on an insight that can get overlooked in more professional efforts to prescribe the right pedagogical mix of western vigor and structured Asian rigor. Outside the standard classroom, bottom-up cultural exchange is invaluable, as Meijie knew first-hand; impressive faculty, enlightened pedagogy, great facilities, an innovative curriculum -- whether imported or homegrown or both -- are only part of the story. What may matter more than anything else is student chemistry.
 The scene at Hsylc in August was certainly not stress-free, least of all for Meijie. Chinese education is enjoying a wave of international activity, as joint ventures and exchanges proliferate, but her student-driven endeavor called for pioneering entrepreneurship as she rallied sponsors, press coverage and more. During the frenetic lead-up, her parents were thrilled to meet an array of kids from the United States -- so much less inhibited than Chinese teenagers, they said, laughing -- even as they worried their daughter was overdoing it and hiding the strain. ''She's my daughter,'' Mrs. Tang told me, full of fondness. ''I know her well. But I also know that everyone has good times and bad times -- I know I do. For us, she tells us the good times. She must suffer, pay for that somewhere within. But she doesn't tell us that.'' 
 The result was an event full of an impromptu energy uncharacteristic of Chinese high-school campuses, even at a flexible place like Fudan Fuzhong. With their messy dorms and worldly ways, Hsylc's diverse band of Harvard student seminar leaders were skewed toward adventure-seeking underclassmen, by design. Meijie and her fellow Hsylc organizers had selected for bold well-roundedness; the more eclectic the Harvard students' profiles, the more exotic their travels, the better. And the young seminar leaders had bitten off ambitious and various topics -- from ''Africa and the Problems of Development'' to ''Disneyworld!'' -- that added up to something quite unlike the scripted ''quality education'' supplements many of the Hsylc kids had been exposed to. (From 26 province-level divisions, including Hong Kong, the 300 participants reflected the map of educational advantage, coming mostly from eastern, urban areas, with big contingents from Beijing and Shanghai, though Meijie also recruited a dozen or so very poor students.) This was real consciousness-raising, rather than conscientious resume enhancement. ''With half-open eyes, sore legs, constant yawning and a spinning head, it is curious why I am still so excited about the coming day,'' wrote a student in The Silk Road, the Hsylc newsletter; clearly not alcohol-induced, the daze wasn't cram-induced either.
 The writer, Sindy -- the kids mostly went by English-sounding first names they had chosen -- proceeded to praise the seminars and the lectures ''by distinguished scholars and entrepreneurs with remarkable insight.'' (A scheduling glitch produced the highlight event, I was told -- two very different Chinese examples of success on stage together: the polished, Western-educated head of Google China, Kai-Fu Lee, and the jeans-clad Jack Ma, homegrown maverick who reportedly bombed the gaokao twice and founded Alibaba.com, China's thriving e-commerce company.) Sindy was full of enthusiasm too for ''various extracurricular activities in which you wish you could send different parts of your body to.'' But what held the most allure were the imported seminar leaders themselves. ''I am fascinated by the talent, personal charm and perfect articulation of minds in these young people only two or three years older than most of us,'' she wrote of the Harvard students.
 Meijie had set out to replace blind veneration of the Harvard brand with a more informed appreciation of the charismatic, self-motivated breed of liberal-arts students she found there. What she probably didn't foresee was that China's famously studious youth would also be seized with a bad, or rather a very healthy, case of adolescent infatuation. Thanks to flirting and gossiping over meals -- ''We began searching for beautiful Harvard girls and handsome boys to have dinners with,'' one student reported -- the seminar leaders became peers, not just paragons. Forget Chinese reticence. The Hsylc participants demonstrated plenty of persistence, seeking out Harvard students to pursue seminar discussions or talk about life problems. Uneasy students were emboldened by a participatory style impossible in their big classes; they joined debates, took on the role of presidential candidates, signed up for a sprawling talent show. ''In such an atmosphere, can you keep yourself silent and passive?'' asked several fans of the Harvard sophomore Richie Schwartz's ''explosive'' seminar on the evolution wars. ''Just speak out!'' The questions at some of the lectures were contentious bordering on rude, I was told.
 A spirit of social adventure was inseparable from the intellectual adventure at Hsylc. That blurring is rare in Chinese high schools, where the new curricular broadening coexists with a student culture that is more familial -- nurturing or infantilizing, depending on whom you ask. Chinese high-school students, many of whom board at school during the week, generally spend two years together with the same 40-plus classmates and sometimes choose their third-year concentration in order to stick with their friends. When they go home on the weekends, it usually isn't to a social life with peers -- dating is strongly discouraged -- but to parents who ''take care of everything. It's always little baby.'' That's how one Hsylc participant, William, put it during a long conversation with me and four other summit alumni in a Shanghai teahouse on a late October Sunday. He discovered what he felt was missing from the Chinese high-school experience during a year abroad in a Texas public high school. ''American high schools are more colorful, more like real life . . . more complicated . . . I don't know, you feel like you've somehow grown to be a more mature person. You have to deal with different people and all the complicated things about relationships, and friendship, and programs and activities.''
 Yet William -- whose personal style, down to his Nike wristband, was amazingly American, and who was in the midst of applying to American colleges ''because I think they suit me better'' -- didn't speak for all his peers. The view, from the best Shanghai high schools at any rate, is more complicated. Lily, from Fudan Fuzhong, had returned from a happy year abroad at the Taft School in Connecticut that nonetheless left her thinking how ''stimulating'' her own high school is -- and feeling that for SAT-stressed American students, ''it's not much better than in Shanghai.'' The previous morning, five other Hsylc kids argued just as fiercely about the state of Chinese education. Bluesky sang the praises of the well-rounded girls at her school, Shanghai No. 3 Girls High School. But Black, arriving from a weekend review class with ''physics problems swimming in my head,'' was bleak about gaokao-burdened life in his ordinary school. ''I am very tired but I must strive,'' he said wearily. Whatever their arguments as they compared schools, there was general agreement: it's rural kids, stuck in bad schools and granted fewer slots at the best universities, who face truly impossible odds and stress.
 As for the HSYLC students' plans for the future, Meijie's summit meeting had not triggered a stampede to apply to American colleges (where all but the wealthy must hope for full or generous scholarships). Interest in Harvard certainly was high, yet at the same time Hsylc sent a very different message that worked against reflexive Chinese competitive fervor. All stirred up by the experience, a group of talented young people was also left feeling, as one put it, ''more energetic, braver and more confident'' about figuring out for themselves what might lie ahead -- where they could best pursue the personal goals they had been hearing about and which they were told to take seriously. ''What impressed me about the Harvard students,'' a girl by the name of Shine told me, ''was their definite aim for life, whereas Chinese students just go on the road laid out by their parents. In Shanghai and Beijing, we have the sense that we can go on our road. But sometimes it is an empty concept; we don't know how to contribute to society.'' For her -- and many other kids agreed -- the Hsylc event was a time when ''I always ask myself what I want to do.''
 Applications for undergraduate study abroad are rising (six times as many students from the People's Republic of China, 256, applied to Harvard College in 2005 as in 1999, for example), and more foreign degree holders are now coming back to put their educations to use at home. But perhaps as promising a sign of the momentum behind educational change in China is an Hsylc participant like Neal, master of the wryly raised eyebrow, who said when I spoke with him that he was planning on staying put but who was still thinking big. The most caustic critic of Chinese schooling among those assembled for tea, he had already spent time in Germany. But he was inspired to find that his Chinese schoolmates, ''known for diligence, silence and obedience, thick glasses as a symbol,'' in his words, could be ''most vigorous'' in a setting like Hsylc.
 As he explained to me in an earlier e-mail message, composed in breaks from gaokao cramming, he said he needed ''to watch and feel the system by my personal experience'' -- endure the burdens at their worst in the third year, the ''endless homework, strict discipline, frequent exams and the peer pressure.'' If he chose to stay in China, he would know how to push toward a new system in which students' ''curiosity is well protected to learn knowledge.'' At the teahouse, Neal was already rallying the troops behind a vision of prodding change along at home. ''At Fudan University'' -- which has just inaugurated a less specialized curriculum for freshmen and a house system modeled on Yale and Harvard -- ''I can take a lecture, and if I want to be more active, I can ask questions, I can tell my friends to ask questions and then students will change the system,'' he said. ''When a university is eager to change, the vital power is students.'' Neal raised both eyebrows, a boy looking ready to rebel against the bookworm stereotype. ''People say, 'Whoa, you're from China!' Yes, I'm from China.''
 A generation of more independent-minded students with wider horizons -- a generation of Neals and Meijies, busy networking and innovating: it is a prospect that may inspire some trepidation as well as optimism among Chinese leaders. After all, campus unrest has left scars, and vast challenges loom, from the environment to rural discontent. The proof that the recent educational changes go deeper than a proliferation of newfangled curricula and degrees will not be merely how China's economic future plays out; it will be what kinds of political and cultural repercussions unfold, most immediately among the lucky few who are currently benefiting most from the new opportunities. Will it be enough if a bolder breed of the best and the brightest -- as Xu predicted -- form a cosmopolitan elite whose roots in China help make them the imaginative hybrids that global enterprises need? Over dinner with his wife and daughter (who was busy doing her homework while she ate), Xu was hopeful. At the same time, in a recent Foreign Affairs article, Xu's friend John Thornton, a former president of Goldman Sachs, who has been directing a new Global Leadership program at Tsinghua University for several years now (and who also gave a rousing talk at Hsylc), points out a serious problem. In a country whose cutthroat educational system was famous for selecting successful bureaucrats, top talent these days goes just about anywhere but the government, clogged as it is with corrupt insiders. If creative, critical-minded outsiders aren't given a reason to enter the public realm, the prospects for a world-class, more democratic future for all are only more precarious.
 Right now, it's quite unlikely that Meijie would even think of ending up as a mandarin. She was, though, full of plans as the spring semester of her sophomore year got under way after a somewhat dispiriting fall -- her Harvard friends worrying about grades, her Fudan University friends in China panicked about careers. ''Now I feel I am back again,'' she wrote in a late February e-mail message, sent at -- some things never change -- 3:55 a.m. ''Life is so hectic and overwhelmingly exciting!'' With two Harvard friends, Meijie had just founded a company -- Strategy Alpha International L.L.C., whose mission is to advise Chinese and American enterprises on carving out niches in the other country's markets. (She and her team were already talking to a top Chinese financial magazine in search of an American partner.)
 Meijie the resourceful global entrepreneur hadn't stopped thinking about education, though you might say the liberal-arts champion had become more of a realist. With a nonprofit arm of S.A.I., she was eager to pursue college advising back home and to explore new curriculum designs for English-teacher training and -- inescapable in China -- test prep as well. Meanwhile, Hsylc 2007 was gearing up. Meijie planned to give this year's event a theme, ''Different Paths to Success,'' with the emphasis on ''different'' to jolt Harvard kids and Chinese kids alike out of their G.P.A.-obsessed focus on climbing conventional ladders. (In China, she suggested, American-style options like entertainment or sports, say, could use a boost.) It would be a contrast to last year, the now-seasoned summit organizer told me with a nostalgic grin and a groan: then the theme, she joked, should have been ''How to Survive in Chaos.'' Meijie was being modest. How to thrive under the stress of new choices and change was the lesson she learned early, and was working hard -- very hard -- to share.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Students do hands-on work at a top Shanghai high school.
New School: Xiwai International School in Shanghai, one of the new breed of Chinese private schools with a distinctly Western-looking curriculum. (Photograph By Daniel Traub For The New York Times)
 'Don't Call Me ''Harvard Girl'' ': Tang Meijie has inspired legions of Chinese students. She's hoping they emulate her goal (a liberal education) as much as her brand (Harvard). (Photograph By Guido Vitti For The New York Times) Drawing: Lettering by Leanne Shapton 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); CREATIVE WRITING (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); CELEBRITIES (75%); WRITERS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%) Colleges and Universities; Foreign Study, Teaching and Travel; Education and Schools; Colleges and Universities

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%) Harvard University

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

PERSON: Tang Meijie; Ann Hulbert

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%) EAST CHINA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (91%) China

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



6 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: A Bridge Over the Atlantic, in Labor Policy

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
FROM issues of crime and punishment to the proper domain of the spiritual and temporal powers, Americans and Europeans have long cast a skeptical eye at one another across the Atlantic.
 Perhaps nowhere has the gaze been more jaundiced than in the area of work. From the perspective of Western Europe, American employers have a relatively free hand to hire and fire, coupled with meager and short-lived unemployment benefits. America's deregulated labor markets seem to provide hardly any safety net when it comes to economic dislocations of workers.
Americans, by contrast, have found it hard to resist a touch of schadenfreude at the joblessness stoked by European governments' intervention in labor markets, with rules on everything from wages to layoffs, on top of generous unemployment benefits. 
 But global change is pushing Europe and the United States to borrow from each other's playbooks. 
 Faced with relentless competition from workers in China and other poor countries, American policy makers are considering extending a little more generosity to the low-skilled and unemployed. In Europe, the debate focuses on pushing the unemployed back to work. 
 ''There is a convergence across the Atlantic,'' said Hans-Werner Sinn, president of the Ifo Institute for Economic Research in Munich, whose proposals to get the unemployed back to work have been partially adopted in Germany.
 In the United States, after Democrats took hold of Congress, they increased the minimum wage for the first time in a decade. Now Democratic lawmakers are considering a plan to extend unemployment insurance coverage, which excludes all sorts of laid-off workers, including those who had part-time jobs and those leaving work because of family needs. 
 Some Democrats are also proposing a wage insurance plan, intended to cover part of the difference between the wages a laid-off worker formerly earned and the wages paid in the new job, which are typically 16 percent lower. 
 ''You can think of it as subsidizing the re-acquisition of skills by workers,'' said Lael Brainard, an economist at the Brookings Institution in Washington.
 Representative Jim McDermott, a Democrat from Washington State who has drafted proposals to retool unemployment insurance and introduce wage insurance, said: ''In the mid-1990s, globalization accelerated to 100 miles per hour. Unfortunately nobody was standing around and thinking about what was happening to American workers.'' 
 Most economists argue that American workers have long been buffeted by similar forces. ''I wouldn't think of globalization as fundamentally different from other changes the United States economy has undergone over hundreds of years,'' said Robert Shimer, a professor of economics at the University of Chicago. ''Now jobs are lost in part because they are going to other countries, but buggy makers lost their jobs when the car was introduced.''
 There is an ideological component in the policy proposals to address the current dislocations. In an address to the American Economic Association two years ago, Martin Feldstein, a former economic adviser to President Bush, suggested that unemployment insurance could be replaced with private unemployment accounts -- similar in approach to private retirement accounts -- for workers to prepare for potential joblessness. 
 Critics of the wage insurance proposal argue that it would subsidize employers who pay substandard wages. In addition, some say that it is inefficient to distort workers' incentives this way. Some Republican-leaning economists support the new ideas, in principle. ''There's a clear social contract between capital and labor,'' said John Silvia, chief economist of the Wachovia Corporation -- who was formerly an economist for two Republican-controlled Congressional committees. ''When a corporation reallocates its resources we cannot just leave these people flat and dead.'' 
 Moreover, many economists say, helping workers deal with the dislocations wrought by a fast-changing economy would help temper their fears about globalization and forestall a protectionist backlash. 
 Global competition from manufacturers in poor countries, meanwhile, is driving some Western European countries in the opposite direction. Realizing that high long-term unemployment benefits established a very high ''reservation wage'' -- below which a person who is out of work would not accept a job -- many are trying to coax the unemployed back into active work. 
 In Denmark, home to one of Europe's most generous unemployment programs, public munificence has eroded somewhat in the last decade. The unemployed must now accept either a job offer or a place in a training program if they are to keep their benefits; the maximum benefit period has been cut to four years from five.
 IN Germany, the former left-of-center government passed a package of laws in 2003 that cut benefits, pared the duration of unemployment insurance to 16 months from 32 and required workers on long-term benefits to accept any ''reasonable'' job offers. 
 The program allows workers to earn up to 100 euros a month tax-free without losing benefits. And the government set up a system to provide low-wage public jobs for the long-term unemployed. Mr. Sinn, the German economist, said that if his country is to employ its less-skilled workers in the face of global competition, companies will have to be allowed to pay lower wages. 
 To achieve that, Mr. Sinn said, the government must stop providing a long-term, well-paid alternative to work. But he argued that there should be a higher threshold at which benefits begin to be reduced. This would provide an effective subsidy to wages, he said, allowing workers to accept low-paid jobs and still maintain an acceptable income. ''The minimum wages desired for social purposes are higher than the wages employers are willing to pay,'' Mr. Sinn said.Europeans and Americans take very different approaches to the labor market -- with Europeans concerned primarily with guaranteeing some decent level of income for its citizens, the United States with encouraging an efficient labor market that provides lots of jobs. Still, a common perspective may be emerging: the unemployed must be encouraged to work. But it may be the government's role to step in when wages are insufficient.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 15, 2007

 CORRECTION:
The Economic View column on April 1, about labor policies in the United States and Europe, misstated the status of efforts in Congress to raise the minimum wage. Separate bills to raise the wage have been approved by the Senate and the House, but legislation has not been enacted.

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Safety Net?''Share of wages replaced by unemployment benefits, averaged across a range of wages, family types and lengths of unemployment.Japan: 8%Greece: 13United States: 14Canada: 15Britain: 16Germany: 29Switzerland: 33Italy: 34Finland: 36France: 39Denmark: 50Netherlands: 53(Source by Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); DISMISSALS (77%); MINIMUM WAGE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (72%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Labor; Unemployment

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (59%)

PERSON: JIM MCDERMOTT (52%) Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (88%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (96%); CHINA (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (90%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CANADA (79%); FINLAND (79%); DENMARK (79%); FRANCE (79%); GREECE (58%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) Europe; China

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



7 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 4-01-07: IDEA LAB; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Can Poor People Be Taught to Save?

BYLINE: By Rachel Louise Snyder. 
Rachel Louise Snyder is writing ''Fugitive Denim,'' a book about people in the global garment trade.

 BODY:
Why can't poor people save money? The answer might appear blindingly obvious: They don't earn enough. But that explanation didn't satisfy Stephen Brobeck -- it was too easy, too defeatist. As the executive director of the Consumer Federation of America for nearly three decades, he has watched people increase debt and decrease savings. The trend disturbs him. While Brobeck thinks that everyone should save more, he is particularly concerned about the poorest Americans. About nine million households have effectively no financial assets -- nothing to fall back on for emergencies or retirement. And it was with them in mind that Brobeck embarked on a social experiment to change people's savings habits. 
To get people to save, however, Brobeck first needed to know why they didn't. So the C.F.A. enlisted John Caskey, a professor of economics at Swarthmore College, who arranged for anthropologists to conduct in-depth interviews in two low-income communities, one in urban San Jose, Calif., and one in rural Mississippi. ''I had expected people would talk about the cost of not having a bank account or having a bad credit history,'' Caskey said. ''I thought they'd talk about financial inconvenience, but they instead talked about the stress.'' In many cases, people didn't save not because they actually couldn't, Caskey discovered, but because they believed they couldn't.
 Part of that psychological barrier, Caskey found, was social pressure to not save; the minute people got a little surplus, friends and family would start asking for loans. There were other obstacles too. People in both communities feared losing welfare benefits if they accumulated cash. Many families didn't even define savings monetarily; they talked about the things they would sell in desperation -- baseball-card collections, heirlooms or other low-value assets. 
 Poring over Caskey's research, along with other scholarly and financial literature, Brobeck concluded that the only way to get people to save was to reverse the social pressure while trying to effect modest institutional changes. The key, he realized, was to create a network of support for saving.
 The network he came up with was America Saves. Initially begun as an experiment in Cleveland in 2000, the project has since expanded to more than 40 locations across the country and more than 75,000 enrolled participants. In Cleveland, Brobeck persuaded banks to set up special accounts requiring no or low minimum balances or fees for any Cleveland Saver. He asked large employers to offer regular workshops about debt, budgeting, saving and consumerism. Volunteers were taught to give presentations with punchy messages like ''Build Wealth Not Debt!'' Then he worked on peer pressure, reaching out to churches and community groups. 
 The Community of Faith Church was where Cheryl Wagner learned to save. Wagner, 51, never had more than pocket change and a series of unremarkable restaurant jobs -- she defines them as the ''hustle.'' She worked on and off at McDonald's for 15 years and then as a waitress at the International House of Pancakes. ''You got to smile all day,'' she says, not smiling. (Now she's a home health aide.) She's a mother of 2 and a grandmother of 11, and over the past couple of years she has changed addresses regularly. When her nephew died, and then her niece, and finally her father, each death compounded until they formed a single galvanizing epiphany: all those years hustling, and she was too broke to afford funeral flowers. 
 The realization was devastating and made her pay attention when her pastor, Jeffrey Sanders, brought in a Cleveland Saves representative in December 2005. Sanders encouraged church members to form a savers' group, and Wagner was among the first to join. She set a goal to save $50 a month. This would be no small feat given her wages at the time -- $2.13 an hour plus tips. But she wasn't alone; 35 other churchgoers joined with her.
 Wagner stopped eating out and battled the lure of the dollar stores in her neighborhood. ''For 30 days I ate no sweets and no bread,'' she says. ''That saved me some money.'' Just having a savings account was an achievement. Wagner had bad experiences with banks; confusing fees and minimum-balance rules made them untenable. But at a local bank, she was able to open an America Saves account with $5 and had the peculiar experience of bank employees smiling at her. 
 As many as two-thirds of those who attend America Saves workshops sign up, and as a group they save half of what they pledge. On average, participants manage to put away $65 a month. This barely touches the magnitude of the problem nationwide, but Brobeck is encouraged nonetheless. Saving when every media message entices you to spend can be as difficult as kicking addiction. And every dollar saved when you earn very little is a kind of victory. Over the past year, Wagner has put away $500, in no small part because she can see her church from her back window -- the savers' group always just a couple of days away.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph from Shift Photo/Zefa/Corbis) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TRENDS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); FAMILY (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (67%); RELIGION (60%) Banks and Banking; Savings; Motivation and Incentive Systems; Banks and Banking

ORGANIZATION: Consumer Federation of America; America Saves (Orgn)

PERSON: Rachel Louise Snyder

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (55%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



8 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: April 01, 2007

 BODY:
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended March 17, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books. CHRISTINE FALLS, by Benjamin Black. 
(Holt, $25.) In foggy 1950s Dublin, a pathologist becomes an accidental detective; by John Banville, writing pseudonymously.RUMSFELD: His Rise, Fall, and Catastrophic Legacy, by Andrew Cockburn. (Scribner, $25.) The roots of Rumsfeld's disastrous tenure.THE BEAUTIFUL THINGS THAT HEAVEN BEARS, by Dinaw Mengestu. (Riverhead, $22.95.) A first novel about an Ethiopian exile in Washington, D.C., evokes loss, hope, memory and the solace of friendship.TALES FROM THE TORRID ZONE, by Alexander Frater. (Knopf, $25.95.) Travels from Zanzibar to the Galapagos to Vietnam.THE BURIED BOOK: The Loss and Rediscovery of the Great Epic of Gilgamesh, by David Damrosch. (Holt, $26.) A history of a work written in ancient Mesopotamia and rediscovered by British scholars in the 19th century.INHERITANCE, by Natalie Danford. (St. Martin's, $23.95.) In this first novel, a young woman uncovers a family secret from Fascist Italy.LONELY AVENUE: The Unlikely Life and Times of Doc Pomus, by Alex Halberstadt. (Da Capo, $26.) This songwriter cracked rock 'n' roll's code in the early 1960s.LOST CITY RADIO, by Daniel Alarcon. (HarperCollins, $24.95.) A first novel set in a South American country 10 years after a dirty civil war.WINTERTON BLUE, by Trezza Azzopardi. (Grove, $24.) An unhappy young woman meets an even unhappier drifter.LENI: The Life and Work of Leni Riefenstahl, by Steven Bach. (Knopf, $30.) How Hitler's favorite director made ''Triumph of the Will'' and convinced posterity that she didn't know what the Nazis were up to.LENI RIEFENSTAHL: A Life, by Jurgen Trimborn. Translated by Edna McCown. (Faber & Faber, $30.) This biography is especially good on Riefenstahl's long later years, when she moved to Africa and outlived her enemies. The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books.


	 	 	 			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	1	2	1	NINETEEN MINUTES, by Jodi Picoult. (Atria, $26.95.) The aftermath of a high school shooting reveals the fault lines in a small New Hampshire town.		 	 	 	2	4	3	SHOPAHOLIC & BABY, by Sophie Kinsella. (Dial, $24.) Becky is pregnant, and the obstetrician turns out to be her husband's ex-girlfriend.		 	 	 	3		1	DADDY'S GIRL, by Lisa Scottoline. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) A law professor caught in a prison riot must defend herself when she is unjustly accused of murder.		 	 	 	4	2	2	WHITETHORN WOODS, by Maeve Binchy. (Knopf, $25.95.) A proposed highway threatens the existence of a religious shrine in a rural Irish village.		 	 	 	5	5	6	STEP ON A CRACK, by James Patterson and Michael Ledwidge. (Little, Brown, $27.99.) A detective raising 10 children alone must rescue 34 high-level hostages.		 	 	 	6	3	5	SISTERS, by Danielle Steel. (Delacorte, $27.) After a family tragedy, four sisters with very different lives decide to share a Manhattan brownstone.		 	 	 	7	7	5	THE DOUBLE BIND, by Chris Bohjalian. (Shaye Areheart, $25.) A young woman who works at a homeless shelter struggles to understand the mysterious photographs taken by a recently deceased resident.		 	 	 	8*	8	3	THE WATCHMAN, by Robert Crais. (Simon & Schuster, $25.95.) A former Los Angeles police officer becomes the bodyguard of a troubled heiress marked for death.		 	 	 	9	6	4	INNOCENT IN DEATH, by J. D. Robb. (Putnam, $25.95) Lt. Eve Dallas investigates the murder of a history teacher; by Nora Roberts, writing pseudonymously.		 	 	 	10	9	25	FOR ONE MORE DAY, by Mitch Albom. (Hyperion, $21.95.) A troubled man gets a last chance to reconnect and restore his relationship with his dead mother.		 	 	 	11*		1	WHAT THE DEAD KNOW, by Laura Lippman. (Morrow, $25.95.) A woman claims to be one of two sisters who disappeared mysteriously 30 years earlier.		 	 	 	12		1	THE POST-BIRTHDAY WORLD, by Lionel Shriver. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) In parallel narratives, a London woman stays with her boyfriend and leaves him for another.		 	 	 	13		1	HEYDAY, by Kurt Andersen. (Random House, $26.95.) A British gentleman and three American friends are caught up in the California gold rush of 1848.		 	 	 	14	10	10	PLUM LOVIN', by Janet Evanovich. (St. Martin's, $16.95.) A mysterious man in Stephanie Plum's life helps her track down a matchmaker who skipped bail.		 	 	 	15	11	7	THE ALEXANDRIA LINK, by Steve Berry. (Ballantine, $25.95.) A former Justice Department operative turned bookseller hides a link to the secrets of the vanished library of Alexandria from wealthy international thugs.		 	 	 	16*	16	5	HEART-SHAPED BOX, by Joe Hill. (Morrow, $24.95.) An aging rock star who buys what's advertised as a ghost is stunned when it turns out to be the real thing.		 	 	 			Weeks			 	 	 	This	Last	On			 	 	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	1	1	3	IN AN INSTANT, by Lee and Bob Woodruff. (Random House, $25.95.) The aftermath of the ABC co-anchor's traumatic brain injury in Iraq in 2006.		 	 	 	2	4	5	A LONG WAY GONE, by Ishmael Beah. (Sarah Crichton/Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $22.) A former child soldier from Sierra Leone describes his drug-crazed killing spree and his return to humanity.		 	 	 	3*	2	33	I FEEL BAD ABOUT MY NECK, by Nora Ephron. (Knopf, $19.95.) A witty look at aging from a novelist and screenwriter (''When Harry Met Sally'').		 	 	 	4	3	22	THE AUDACITY OF HOPE, by Barack Obama. (Crown, $25.) The Illinois junior senator proposes that Americans move beyond their political divisions.		 	 	 	5	5	6	INFIDEL, by Ayaan Hirsi Ali. (Free Press, $26.) A memoir by the Somali-born advocate for Muslim immigrant women, once a member of the Dutch Parliament, who has been threatened with death.		 	 	 	6	7	2	THE HARDCORE DIARIES, by Mick Foley. (World Wrestling Entertainment/Pocket, $24.) The former professional wrestling champion discusses his fame and his life at World Wrestling Entertainment.		 	 	 	7		1	HOW DOCTORS THINK, by Jerome Groopman. (Houghton Mifflin, $26.) A doctor and New Yorker staff writer describes how doctors arrive at diagnoses and what patients can do to make sure they don't err.		 	 	 	8		1	SECOND CHANCE, by Zbigniew Brzezinski. (Basic, $26.95.) The former National Security adviser discusses how America can regain the global power and prestige squandered by its three post-cold-war presidents.		 	 	 	9	6	4	SOMEBODY'S GOTTA SAY IT, by Neal Boortz (HC/HarperCollins, $25.95.) A radio talk-show host discusses government, poverty, prayer in the schools, race relations, gun control and other topics.		 	 	 	10	9	23	THE INNOCENT MAN, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $28.95.) Grisham's first nonfiction book concerns a man sentenced to death for a crime he did not commit.		 	 	 	11	8	74	MARLEY & ME, by John Grogan. (Morrow, $29.95 and $21.95.) A newspaper columnist and his wife learn some life lessons from their neurotic dog.		 	 	 	12		8	POWER, FAITH, and FANTASY, by Michael B. Oren. (Norton, $35.) A history of America's relations with the Middle East starting in 1776.		 	 	 	13	11	97	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $27.95.) A maverick scholar and a journalist apply economic theory to nearly everything.		 	 	 	14	12	26	THE GOD DELUSION, by Richard Dawkins. (Houghton Mifflin, $27.) An Oxford scientist asserts that belief in God is irrational.		 	 	 	14	102	15	THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) A columnist for The Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy. 		 	 	 	
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); RETAILERS (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); BOOKSTORES (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (77%); SONG WRITING (70%); POP & ROCK (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (65%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (61%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (60%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%); SHOOTINGS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (71%) ETHIOPIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



9 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Paperback Row; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 826 words

BYLINE: By IHSAN TAYLOR

 BODY:
AMERICA AT THE CROSSROADS: Democracy, Power, and the Neoconservative Legacy, by Francis Fukuyama. (Yale University, $15.) This scathing polemic indicts the Bush administration's war in Iraq and the role that neoconservative ideas -- concerning unilateralism and preventive war -- played in shaping its outcome. Fukuyama, whose 1992 book ''The End of History and the Last Man'' was hailed as a classic neoconservative text on the end of the cold war, traces the origins and key principles of neoconservatism. He also proposes a post-Bush foreign policy, ''realistic Wilsonianism,'' which discredits forceful regime change and favors economic development and the creation of social capital, or ''soft power.'' ''Among the neoconservative intellectuals, Fukuyama has surely been the most imaginative, the most playful in his thinking and the most ambitious,'' Paul Berman wrote here.HALFWAY HOUSE, by Katharine Noel. 
(Grove, $13.) Seventeen-year-old Angie Voorster's psychotic break unhinges her family in Noel's intense, sure-footed first novel, which leaps ahead months, even years between chapters, charting the terrible endurance of Angie's illness and the long, uncertain span of her recovery.JESUS AND YAHWEH: The Names Divine, by Harold Bloom. (Riverhead, $15.) This is a provocative reading of the Bible and its representations of man and God. Examining the characters of Jesus, Jesus Christ and Yahweh, Bloom, one of our most prolific literary critics, calls them ''totally incompatible personages'' and rejects the idea of a shared Judeo-Christian tradition. WHAT JESUS MEANT, by Garry Wills. (Penguin, $13.) In this devotional study, Wills, a noted scholar and Catholic, stresses Christ's radicalism. ''To read the Gospels in the spirit with which they were written, it is not enough to ask what Jesus did or said,'' he writes. ''We must ask what Jesus meant by his strange deeds and words.''THE WHITE MAN'S BURDEN: Why the West's Efforts to Aid the Rest Have Done So Much Ill and So Little Good, by William Easterly. (Penguin, $16.) Why do Western aid programs so often fail? According to this incisive book, it's not because of too little money spent. Easterly, a former World Bank economist and the author of ''The Elusive Quest for Growth,'' describes two tragedies of the world's poor. The first is that so many people suffer so much for lack of inexpensive remedies. The second ''is the tragedy in which the West spent $2.3 trillion on foreign aid over the last five decades and still had not managed to get 12-cent medicines to children to prevent half of all malaria deaths.'' He contrasts the traditional ''Planner'' approach of most aid projects -- imposing solutions from the top down -- with the ''Searcher'' approach, which adapts to the cultural, political and bureaucratic obstacles of foreign lands from the bottom up.THE COLLECTED POEMS OF C. P. CAVAFY: A New Translation, by Aliki Barnstone. (Norton, $15.95.) The Greek poet Constantine Cavafy (1863-1933) spent his professional life in Alexandria, Egypt, composing poems that were privately printed and little circulated during his lifetime. This lucid translation conveys the inseparable connection between Cavafy's erotic and historical poems.FLAPPER: A Madcap Story of Sex, Style, Celebrity, and the Women Who Made America Modern, by Joshua Zeitz. (Three Rivers, $13.95.) This is a lively history of the 1920s ''New Woman,'' who epitomized the decadence of the Jazz Age as she ''bobbed her hair, smoked cigarettes, drank gin, sported short skirts and passed her evenings in steamy jazz clubs.'' Zeitz, a Cambridge University historian, ''shows that the flapper was much more than her hairstyle,'' Liesl Schillinger wrote in the Book Review. ''She was, in fact, a torch lighting the way to social change.''IN PERSUASION NATION: Stories, by George Saunders. (Riverhead, $14.) In his third collection Saunders, a dedicated satirist, again takes aim at the buying and selling of packaged experience, maintaining a delicate balance between the grim and the funny. People and animals are either subjected to cruel marketing experiments or forced to live within the confines of commercials and television vignettes featuring rampant cartoon violence. The more conventional ''Bohemians'' concerns a clutch of misfit kids in a working-class neighborhood and the bond that forms between a 10-year-old boy and an old Eastern European immigrant on the block. Our reviewer, Adam Begley, called Saunders ''fantastically talented'': ''The surreal Saunders magic is working.''FANTASYLAND: A Sportswriter's Obsessive Bid to Win the World's Most Ruthless Fantasy Baseball League, by Sam Walker. (Penguin, $15.) Walker, a sports columnist for The Wall Street Journal, chronicles his no-holds-barred season in the toughest fantasy (a k a rotisserie) baseball league, called Tout Wars, which is composed of experts who make a living by telling others how to win at fantasy baseball. IHSAN TAYLOR

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); RELIGION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); COLD WAR (79%); IRAQ WAR (77%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (76%); LITERATURE (76%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); WRITERS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); POOR POPULATION (74%); LITERARY CRITICISM (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); MALARIA (66%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



10 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: Free For All

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
David Leonhardt writes a weekly economics column for The Times.

 BODY:
RADICALS FOR CAPITALISM
 A Freewheeling History of the
 Modern American Libertarian Movement.
 By Brian Doherty.
 741 pp. Public Affairs. $35.
THE group of young intellectuals who often gathered at Ayn Rand's Manhattan home in the early 1950s had a couple of different names for themselves. One was the ''Class of '43,'' after the year that Rand published her first successful novel, ''The Fountainhead.'' Another, with intentional irony, was ''the Collective.''
 To most Americans, still basking in the successes of the New Deal and victory in World War II, government -- that is collective solutions -- seemed to be working pretty well at the time. But to Rand and her followers, collectivism was the single greatest problem facing the country. As they saw it, government programs forced citizens to comply with goals they often did not share while stifling the creative energy of individuals and even laying the groundwork for totalitarianism. In Rand's apartment on East 34th Street , her collective sat around imagining a better, freer world. 
 The movement remained on the political fringe, however, and not only because its adherents were out of step with the times. By any definition, they were also a little odd. As Brian Doherty writes in ''Radicals for Capitalism,'' his history of libertarianism, every member of the group had to subscribe to a series of cultish premises beginning with ''Ayn Rand is the greatest human being who has ever lived.'' Rand and her protege Nathaniel Branden began an affair in 1954, with scheduled liaisons that their spouses were told to tolerate. Rand later described the group, Doherty writes, as the only ''fully moral, fully happy'' people in human history. 
 In spite of all this, the group left a deep imprint on the culture in the years to come. Rand's magnum opus, ''Atlas Shrugged'' -- Branden and others read portions of the drafts -- became a best seller when it was published in 1957 . Its story of a strike leader who is transformed into a charismatic crusader for individual genius became ''a cornerstone of the modern libertarian movement,'' Doherty writes. One Rand acolyte was a young economist, Alan Greenspan , whose belief in the power of markets -- or, in Randian terms, the power of individual decisions -- later helped shape the American economy during his two decades as chairman of the Federal Reserve. Another young economist, Martin Anderson, who joined the group in the early 1960s, went on to advise Richard Nixon and Ronald Reagan and was instrumental in abolishing one of the most notorious collectivist policies of all, the draft.
 The story of the American libertarian movement, like the story of its most famous salon, has been a combination of small numbers and big influence. It has never really emerged from the fringe, for the simple reason that most Americans want their government to educate the young and care for the old. But over the last few decades, they have also grown increasingly skeptical of collectivist policies that go beyond the basics. Libertarian thinkers -- Rand, Milton Friedman, Murray Rothbard and others -- have helped foment this skepticism and then enthusiastically pointed to the alternative.
 Libertarianism has its roots in the writings of a pair of major 20th-century Austrian economists, Ludwig von Mises and F. A. Hayek. Both opposed economic planning and argued that only the forces of supply and demand could allocate re sources fairly and efficiently . If an item becomes scarce, its price will rise, ensuring that people who place the highest value on it -- those who can use it most productively -- will be able to get it. To this coolly economic argument, Rand and other writers added a moral one: laissez-faire capitalism equaled freedom. 
 This was a tough sell in the wake of the Depression and the war, but the ground began to shift in the 1970s. As the Vietnam War sputtered to a close and the economy stagnated, the wise men who built ''big government'' began to look ineffectual. In 1980, Ronald Reagan would win the presidency by campaigning on laissez-faire rhetoric. The day after his election, he was photo graphed on an airplane reading The Freeman, the flagship libertarian magazine, while Nancy Reagan rested her head on his shoulder.
 In the nearly three decades since, libertarian arguments have enjoyed a nice run. Tax rates have been reduced ; once-regulated industries have been opened to competition ; any two consenting adults, including those of the same sex, can now marry in some places . One of today's most fashionable political labels, ''socially liberal and fiscally conservative,'' Doherty shrewdly notes, is ''the basic libertarian mix.''
 Unfortunately, the movement's steadily increased influence makes up only a small part of the story he tells. Most of the rest deals with minor figures and faction fights. Doherty, a senior editor at Reason magazine , acknowledges he has written ''an insider's history,'' but it is also a sloppily written history. In a single chapter, Milton Friedman is described both as an active writer at Stanford University and, accurately, as deceased . And almost everything about ''Radicals for Capitalism'' is too long: the terms (''Popperian falsificationist'') , the sentences that sometimes run more than 100 words, and the book itself, at more than 700 pages . Evidently, its editor also had libertarian tendencies .
 MOST troubling, Doherty merely catalogs the movement's failings rather than grappling with them. He relates that Rand ''notoriously testified'' before the big-brotherly House Un-American Activities Committee in October 1947 , when the committee was investigating Hollywood, where Rand had worked as a screenwriter, but the episode receives only two paragraphs. He skates over other questionable matters, too: for instance, that Friedman advised the murderous Pinochet regime in Chile; that Merwin Hart ''infected his free-market thought with anti-Semitism''; and that Rothbard supported Strom Thurmond's segregationist campaign for president in 1948 (because, Doherty casually observes, ''he admired
 Thurmond's states' rights position''). The book fails to ask why people who claim to love freedom have so often had a soft spot for those who would deny it to others. Libertarianism has now arrived at an interesting juncture. The moment for its grandest ambitions seems to have passed. President Bush is no longer talking about privatizing Social Security, and his free-market approach to rebuilding Iraq has proven disastrous. The libertarians at the Cato Institute, meanwhile, are struggling to persuade people that global warming -- the archetypal free-market failure -- is a hoax. Yet in an irony worthy of Rand's collective, the solution to climate change will probably have a libertarian tinge. The global warming debate is coalescing around a ''cap and trade'' solution in which energy-efficient companies would be rewarded by the market. In fact, across a range of major issues -- energy policy, health care, retirement savings -- a hybrid form of laissez-faire capitalism and collectivism seems to be ascendant. The market will be allowed to work its efficient magic, but government will step in to correct the market's failures. ''Libertarian paternalism'' is the name two University of Chicago professors, Cass Sunstein and Richard Thaler, have devised for one version of this philosophy.
 Many of the purists who populate ''Radicals for Capitalism'' would surely hate an idea like libertarian paternalism. But they also might understand that they helped to make it possible.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gary Cooper in ''The Fountainhead,'' 1949. Ayn Rand and her acolytes were early proponents of libertarianism in America. (Photo by Everett Collection) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); US LIBERTARIAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LITERATURE (76%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); WORLD WAR II (55%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (50%); RICHARD NIXON (50%) Brian Doherty; David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



11 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 3; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2076 words

HEADLINE: The Battle for a Mortgage

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
AS homeowners across the country have dealt with the declining values of their houses and their ballooning mortgage payments, most New Yorkers seem to believe that the market here doesn't play by the same rules. 
 But in recent weeks, a growing number of New Yorkers, often with six-figure salaries and reasonably good credit, have begun to find that mortgages are harder to get as lenders try to stem losses from loans to the weakest, or subprime, borrowers.
While mortgage brokers insist that most buyers in New York can still close deals, they also warn that people with any red flags on their mortgage applications will face delays and will pay higher fees. Potential problems include low credit scores or high credit-card balances or listing a suspiciously high salary for a given job. 
 ''You're going to pay the piper for any little mistake,'' said Melissa Cohn, the president of Manhattan Mortgage Inc. She said her brokers -- who last year arranged more than $3 billion in mortgages, mainly in New York City -- were spending twice as much time on each application as they did a month ago because of new lending requirements, and she expects the situation only to get worse. 
 ''The impact is going to be much greater as banks demand that people have clean credit to get the best mortgages,'' she said.
 Buyers like Lee and Kimberly Au had to adjust their expectations. The Aus wanted to buy a one- or two-bedroom condominium costing $800,000 to $1.25 million at the Atelier on West 42nd Street, now that their 8-year-old son has a modeling contract in New York. But they quickly learned that they could no longer get 100 percent financing, even though Dr. Au makes more than $700,000 a year as a surgeon in Hawaii. So the couple settled on a $625,000 studio and used $62,500 in savings for the down payment. 
 Eric Eisenberg, the mortgage broker handling the deal, said that even though the Aus put up more cash, the transaction was far more difficult to close than it once would have been.
 ''About three weeks ago, I would have gotten this done by snapping my fingers,'' said Mr. Eisenberg, who is the executive vice president of the EFI Capital Corporation, a mortgage brokerage based in Garden City, N.Y. ''Now it's a very lengthy and time-consuming process where every bit of paperwork has to be done to the T. The guidelines are literally changing every hour.''
 Until recently, many New Yorkers found it fairly easy to get mortgages. Then banks that made loans to subprime borrowers started running into trouble when the borrowers found it impossible to pay their mortgages and fell into foreclosure. As a result, banks have cut back on all types of loans.
 Nationally, indicators show that the real estate market is in turmoil. A report issued on March 23 by the National Association of Realtors said that existing home sales in February 2007 jumped 3.9 percent from the month before but were 3.6 percent lower than the same month the year before. A report issued on March 26 by the Commerce Department said that new home sales in February dropped by 18.3 percent from the year before, to a seven-year low. 
 In any case, lenders who are experiencing an increase in foreclosures are tightening standards on mortgages across the board.
 ''Lenders are going to scrutinize borrowers more carefully'' in the next six to nine months, said Doug Duncan, the chief economist at the Mortgage Bankers Association in Washington. He added, ''The pendulum is probably going to swing too far in the other direction before it settles.''
 That means more New Yorkers are already having to provide more documents to get approvals for all types of mortgages. For example, some brokers who used to get loans approved by lenders without proof of assets from divorces now require the actual decrees. Other mortgage lenders are requiring W-2 forms or pay stubs that they didn't ask for before.
 In one example, Nora Walsh, a loan officer at Preferred Empire Mortgage in Manhattan, spent two weeks trying to get a mortgage for a client who lived in New York City. The client, who would not agree to be interviewed, is the information technology director for a global financial company who was seeking a $550,000 mortgage to buy an apartment in Greenwich Village. 
 He had excellent credit and had been working in the industry for 13 years, but the underwriter in Florida who was reviewing the file did not believe that his job would pay $156,000 a year in salary and bonuses.
 Ms. Walsh said that was the first time this question had come up in the last decade. ''They thought his income was exaggerated,'' she said. Getting the question resolved delayed the deal by two weeks. 
 Banks are also depending more than ever before on high credit scores before making deals and are even tightening their standards. 
 Credit scores typically measure a number of factors, from how promptly borrowers pay their bills to how much credit-card debt they have. The rankings range from 300 to 850. David Strause, a private mortgage banker with Countrywide Financial in New York, said that prime borrowers who can negotiate the best rates typically have scores of 700 or more. Borrowers in the ''Alt-A'' category have mid-tier credit levels, with scores between 620 and 680. Subprime borrowers have scores below 620. 
 Ms. Cohn of Manhattan Mortgage said that six months ago she could negotiate mortgages at good rates for borrowers with credit scores of more than 660. That score now has shifted to 700 ''to open any doors,'' she said.
 In many cases, economists say, borrowers are going to be treated like subprime and Alt-A borrowers for what would seem to be fairly common mistakes, like not paying a few bills on time or carrying a lot of debt.
 ''One of the myths is that subprime is a province of the poor,'' said Mr. Duncan of the Mortgage Bankers Association. ''Subprime is a province of people who don't manage credit well,'' regardless of their incomes.
 The Aus recently found that their credit scores had slipped into these lower categories. Dr. Au, who has four surgical offices in Hawaii, saw his score dip to a subprime level after he and a relative invested in a project, which Ms. Au would not discuss. She said the relative had missed some payments. 
 At the same time, the couple's 8-year-old son, Lee Jr., got a contract with a modeling agency. Since their 26-year-old son, Isaac Calpito, performs in ''Mamma Mia'' on Broadway, and their 17-year-old daughter, Tatiana Echevarria, and 16-year-old daughter, Nataysha Echevarria, hope to pursue Broadway careers, the Aus thought it made sense to buy a Manhattan apartment. 
 The Aus tried to tap into the equity in their four-bedroom house in Honolulu or their rental property at Haiku Plantation nearby in Kaneohe, but banks refused to refinance or to lend on these investments. 
 The couple are using Ms. Au's credit score, which falls in the Alt-A category, to qualify for a 7.5 percent first mortgage and an 8.5 percent second mortgage. 
 ''We have a lot of our money tied up in real estate in Hawaii,'' she said. ''I knew we had to find something quick.''
 Some borrowers are trying to beef up their credit scores before applying for mortgages. 
 Corey Miller, a technical designer of men's and women's outerwear who makes about $140,000, counting his salary and rental income, bought a three-family house in 2005 in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, with a friend for $525,000. 
 At the time, he and his friend were able to get 100 percent financing for the property because Mr. Miller had a credit score of more than 720. After spending nearly $50,000 on renovations -- new floors, kitchens and cabinets -- he signed leases on his two apartments that brought in about $3,000 in monthly income. He and his friend live in the third unit. He then had the property reappraised and found out that its value had risen to $750,000.
 But the $25,000 he charged to five credit cards for the renovation work lowered his credit score to 690, and his prospects for refinancing were diminished. When he tried to refinance the building, applying for a 30-year mortgage for $550,000 at an interest rate of 6.25 percent, his application was rejected. 
 His broker, Joe Levy, the president of Middlegate Mortgage in Manhattan, said that Mr. Miller had too much debt on his credit cards and because his was a three-family property, he was applying for an unconventional mortgage. 
 So Mr. Miller, who recently received a large tax refund, paid down his credit-card balance to about $15,000. Now he carries a lower ratio of overall debt to available credit. He plans to reapply for a new mortgage when his credit score is updated this month. 
 ''We're playing the waiting game until April 15,'' he said. ''Then we're going to resubmit.'' 
 Other borrowers are just taking much longer to get the right deal. 
 Last April, Dan Simonette, a labor and employment lawyer, took out a $200,000 second mortgage on his home in Prospect Heights. He wanted to renovate the first floor to make it accessible for his 75-year-old mother, Noreen, who is blind. 
 His credit score had dipped to about 500 because of bills incurred in a divorce and the cost of hiring a home attendant for his mother. At the time, Mr. Simonette, who makes more than $100,000 a year, got a second mortgage with an 11.75 percent interest rate from the Emigrant Savings Bank. 
 By December, he had improved his credit score slightly and tried to refinance at more than a dozen banks. Early last month, he finally was able to get a 6.8 percent interest rate with Fremont General, a subprime lender based in Santa Monica, Calif. But the day the loan was supposed to close, Fremont said it was selling its subprime business. Mr. Simonette's mortgage ended up being one of the last loans that Fremont executives approved.
 He said that based on his experience, borrowers can expect the application process to take more time than normal. ''It was harder to get answers,'' he said. ''It was harder to get a return call.'' 
 Others potential buyers are bowing out. 
 Since Labor Day, Ellen Kapit, an agent with Sotheby's International Realty in Manhattan, has been trying to sell her two-bedroom co-op in Midtown for $1.375 million so that she can buy a smaller apartment in her building. She has also been trying to sell a house she owns in Southampton for $875,000. 
 She found a $995,000 house in Sag Harbor that she thought might be easier to rent out when she wasn't in residence. She wanted to get a 90 percent mortgage until she sold her apartment or the Southampton house, or both. She didn't expect any difficulties, because she has an excellent credit score in the mid-700s and annual income of more than $100,000 a year. 
 Her mortgage broker, Lenny Holler, a senior loan officer at Preferred Empire Mortgage in Manhattan, suggested that she take out a ''cross-collateralized loan,'' which means that it would include both Hamptons houses and that the lender could foreclose on both if there were any problems. 
 But the lenders wanted to charge more than they would have even a few months ago. Ms. Kapit was to pay about 7.5 percent in interest on the mortgage for the new house and 10.25 percent on a $500,000 bridge loan, plus two percentage points as a closing fee. The points translate to $10,000, meaning her closing costs would total of $29,000.
 Ms. Kapit finally backed out of the deal for the Sag Harbor house until she sells her apartment or her Southampton house. 
 ''Maybe at that time I won't need to borrow as much,'' she said.Your Score
 BORROWERS should know their credit scores before they try to get a loan. 
 Credit scores, also known as FICO scores, were developed by the Fair Isaac Corporation, which created a formula to track several years of credit history. Three major credit agencies -- Equifax, TransUnion and Experian -- use this formula to calculate scores. Banks use the scores to decide how much to lend home buyers. The information is available at myfico.com. Requesting one score costs $16.95; getting scores from all three companies is $47.85. 
 Borrowers also can request free credit histories once a year at annualcreditreport.com, so that they can check whether any errors have been posted. After navigating through the Web site to get their free credit histories, borrowers can click on links to individual sites to get the credit scores at lower prices than myfico's. Equifax charges $7.95, Experian $5.95 and TransUnion $7.95.

GRAPHIC: Photos: CAUGHT IN THE MIDDLE -- When Corey Miller tried to refinance his three-family house in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, lenders said no because he had used his credit cards to pay for renovation. He plans to reapply soon. (Photo by Uli Seit for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
MORE RED TAPE -- Melissa Cohn of Manhattan Mortgage. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)
ADJUSTING EXPECTATIONS -- Kimberly Au and sons, Lee Au Jr., 8, and Isaac Calpito, 26. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)
PUTTING OFF A DEAL FOR A HOUSE IN SAG HARBOR -- Ellen Kapit. (Photo by Tina Fineberg for The New York Times)
 WAITING FOR ANSWERS -- Dan Simonette and his mother, Noreen. (Photo by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)(pg. 8)Drawing (Drawing by David Buffington/Getty Images)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (93%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%) Housing; Mortgages; Housing

PERSON: Christine Haughney

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



12 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: Bridge and Tunnel Vision

BYLINE: By Theodore W. Kheel. 
Theodore W. Kheel, a labor lawyer and mediator, is the author of ''The Keys to Conflict Resolution.''

 BODY:
THE three exhibitions on the master builder Robert Moses -- at the Museum of the City of New York, the Queens Museum of Art and Columbia University -- that are on view in New York City have neglected the mass transit issue almost as seriously as Moses did. 
 Perhaps Moses was doing what everyone else was doing, or perhaps he was leading the others. But it does a disservice to the region to ignore this piece of the Moses story, which deserves retelling. 
It was 1965. Moses' Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority was awash in funds; so was the Port Authority, headed by Austin Tobin. Meanwhile, the Transit Authority was facing a deficit and contemplating increasing the 15-cent fare even as transit workers were demanding higher wages. Moses and Tobin had built empires catering to the automobile; they were not concerned with mass transit's problems.
 At the time, I was a contract arbitrator of labor disputes between the Transit Authority and the transport workers union. As someone who knew a great deal about mass transit, I proposed that tolls for the city's bridges and tunnels be doubled, and the proceeds used to subsidize mass transit. If this proposal sounds mundane now, in 1965 it caused a sensation. It was front-page news in all the city's papers. My proposal was labeled ludicrous and reporters speculated that I had gone berserk. Moses and Tobin, normally archrivals, joined immediately in branding the proposal illegal. 
 But still, a seed of an idea had been planted, and it slowly grew. Within a few years, tolls were doubled and then tripled, and revenue from the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority was eventually used, in part, to finance mass transit.
 Fast forward to the present. Once again a transit problem confronts us, as we face the reality that car congestion is strangling the region's economy, destroying our health and damaging the atmosphere. And once again, a creative solution has been proposed, or rather, a pair of solutions, which -- like my two-pronged proposal in 1965 -- would turn car drivers' pain into mass transit's gain.
 Here are the old ideas in their new clothes. Prong No. 1 is congestion pricing: imposing a fee on cars driven in the city, which would discourage some from driving and raise revenues from those who do. Prong No. 2 is free mass transit: eliminating the bus and subway fare, and using the revenues from congestion pricing to cover the costs. Simple enough -- but as strange to our way of thinking as my proposal almost half a century ago.
 Here's what people are saying about these ideas.
 First, people seem to think congestion pricing is crazy. But congestion pricing is working in cities like London, Melbourne, Rome, Singapore and Stockholm. And there's no reason to think that it can't work here. 
 What about free transit? I recently financed a $100,000 study of the benefits of free mass transit, in the belief the benefits would outweigh the costs. Some commentators dismissed the idea as hopelessly utopian -- not knowing, perhaps, that only a small part of transit costs are covered today by fares, and that funds from congestion pricing could comfortably replace that amount. 
 Yet the proposal intrigued people at the same time it surprised them. Newspapers, television stations and public radio picked up the story. One blog described the proliferating discussion as a ''free frenzy.'' 
 And that takes me back to Moses and the 1960s. The twin concepts of congestion pricing and free transit are seedlings, only recently planted. They make too much sense, however, not to take hold. 
 I predict that 50 years from today, these ideas will seem as mundane as my 1965 suggestion that revenue from Moses' Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority be applied to subsidize mass transit. If, however, we remember what Moses did, perhaps we could move our thinking forward just a little faster. I think we could.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIDGES & TUNNELS (92%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (74%); PORT AUTHORITIES (70%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (67%) Transit Systems; Bridges and Tunnels; Tolls; Buses; Subways; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Roads and Traffic

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%)

PERSON: Theodore W Kheel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



13 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN: STUYVESANT TOWN AND PETER COOPER VILLAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2254 words

HEADLINE: The New Owners Get the Once-Over

BYLINE: By JEFF VANDAM

 BODY:
IF you're thinking of living in Stuyvesant Town or Peter Cooper Village, those immense, green-windowpaned collections of 1940s brick apartment towers near the East River, known for their neighborliness and affordability -- well, just because they recently changed hands in a $5.4 billion transaction doesn't mean they are changing at heart. At least, not very rapidly. 
 Residents have been concerned since late last year about the possibility of radical change. The neighborhood, with its 12,000 or so rental apartments in 110 buildings, was sold by MetLife, the builder, to Tishman Speyer Properties, in the largest residential deal in real estate history.
''Right now, there's a lot of anxiety that there's a way of life that's about to change,'' said Jack Lester, who since 1990 has been the lawyer for the local tenants' association. 
 With the 18-block complex of buildings starting its seventh decade of occupancy, it is a way of life that has had time to mature. Among the 25,000 residents there are still old-timers with roomy rent-stabilized aeries and river views. There are also holdovers, and their relatives, from the complex's birth as a residence for World War II veterans.
 Tishman Speyer is not articulating its long-term vision for the complex. Robert Lawson, a spokesman, said recently in an e-mail message that there were no plans to convert it to condominiums (although there has been speculation that Peter Cooper Village, with its larger units, might lend itself to a conversion). Rather, industry experts see the developer as likely to be aggressive about freeing units from rent stabilization. 
 ''I think anybody would be surprised if they were to keep the status quo, based on the purchase price,'' said Jonathan J. Miller, president of the appraisal firm Miller Samuel. ''It's a big number.''
 As for the developer's approach, he added: ''I would think that it's going to be a combination of political sensibilities and maximizing their investment. I think they go hand in hand.''
 Political sensibilities already seem to be front and center. Tishman Speyer says it will introduce an array of services, including a fitness center that is to be installed on 20th Street; it is also finishing a deal to bring in a greenmarket on Thursdays and Fridays, said Steven Rubenstein, a spokesman for the developer. 
 Even before the sale, however, an influx of younger residents -- the 27 percent already unprotected by rent stabilization -- began the process of bringing the neighborhood into a new era. As Mr. Lester put it, ''You're getting a high degree of people coming in for a short term and leaving.''
 The experiences of one couple who settled into a market-rate apartment at Peter Cooper Village in 2003 may explain the reason for this new pattern of turnover. 
 The couple, Vincent FitzPatrick and Katie Kurtz, rent a bright and roomy 14th-floor two-bedroom unit with views of Midtown Manhattan. Since arriving, they have marveled at the spacious grounds; a paddle tennis court is right outside their building, and their son, Jack, 9 months old and nearly walking, has a fine time in the large playgrounds. 
 People even greet one another on the wide pathways between buildings, something most likely rare to both Ms. Kurtz and Mr. FitzPatrck as they grew up elsewhere in Manhattan.''It's a community feeling that I feel like you don't get in other neighborhoods,'' said Mr. FitzPatrick, 34, a lawyer. ''It's sort of a throwback.''
 Yet while pleased with their apartment, the grounds and the helpful maintenance workers, they feel the opposite about their rent. When they arrived three and a half years ago and signed a two-year lease, the monthly rate was $3,175. Now, Mr. FitzPatrick said, it is around $4,100, an amount they had 30 days to accept when they signed their latest lease. (''I think that is a gun-to-the-head approach,'' Mr. FitzPatrick said.) 
 He explained that the potential condo or co-op conversion of Peter Cooper Village had been a factor when he and his wife decided to rent there, because they knew ''MetLife didn't want to be in the real estate game anymore.'' 
 ''I would love it,'' he added. ''It would be a great opportunity -- provided that there would be some sort of insider price offered.''
 In the meantime, however, as the couple more closely examine their aging building and the days and hours they've waited for maintenance problems to be addressed, they are torn between the features they love and the fact that, for the rent they're paying, they could afford -- and might be better off in -- a full-service luxury doorman building elsewhere in the city.
 ''It's no longer a no-brainer,'' Mr. FitzPatrick said. ''But, yes, take away all of that other stuff, and there's a reason why we keep re-signing our lease. We still think it's a good size. The other rents out there are still ridiculous.'' What You'll Pay
 State law dictates that an apartment can be removed from rent control after its tenants move out and it is renovated, or if the rent (which, though stabilized, is allowed to increase to keep up with inflation) reaches $2,000 a month and the tenants' income surpasses $175,000 for two years in a row.
 In comparison with the rates paid by rent-stabilized tenants like Alvin Doyle, president of the tenants' association, and his wife, Patricia Sallin -- around $1,300 for a two-bedroom they first rented in 1979 -- market-rate prices for new residents at Stuyvesant Town are more in line with luxury rental prices elsewhere in Manhattan.
 A one-bedroom, with 755 square feet, now starts at $2,800 a month, with two-bedrooms of 943 square feet starting at $3,500 a month. There are no four- or five-bedroom units currently available, but a three-bedroom with 1,161 square feet can be had for $4,600 a month or more.
 Across 20th Street in Peter Cooper Village, rents are higher, with a 1,223-square-foot two-bedroom starting at $4,250, just over what Ms. Kurtz and Mr. FitzPatrick pay for their unit. Rents for one-bedrooms with 947 square feet are $3,075.
 For market-rate tenants, increases can come each year, and amounts can vary; at times, the increase persuades families who had just been getting settled to leave.
 ''When people can't predict what their rent is going to be, it shakes them up,'' said City Councilman Daniel R. Garodnick, who pays market rate in Peter Cooper Village. ''In many cases, it requires families to uproot themselves and take kids out of school and move elsewhere.''
 On top of the monthly rent, Mr. Doyle of the tenants' association said, over the last several years there have been increases small and large for major capital improvements, like new electrical wiring and elevators. There may be more to come, said John Marsh, a Peter Cooper resident who is also a tenants' association member, as the pipes in the buildings are quite old and occasionally spurt brown water. 
 ''I've noticed a lot of people have been getting Poland Spring deliveries,'' he said.What You'll Find
 To enter either of the complexes on a pleasant spring day is to stroll into a seemingly calm, controlled urban utopia. Grass is clipped and land maintained by helpful workers. Neighbors -- elderly, young and in between -- play shuffleboard, sit on benches or stop to chat. Sports courts and wide patches of grass are everywhere, and the atmosphere of small-town-within-city, of nature within an urban morass, is striking.
 ''The squirrels are certainly a distinguishing feature,'' said Mr. Garodnick, who grew up in both Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village. ''They'll come right up to you now and ask you for a walnut.''
 Geographically, the two developments fit snugly into a curve of Manhattan once known as the Gashouse District, between 14th and 23rd Streets, from First Avenue to Avenue C and the Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive. The dividing line between the complexes is 20th Street, and though conditions may appear similar in both, there are differences. 
 Units in Peter Cooper Village are larger and more expensive; the two-bedroom units, for instance, have a second bathroom. Also, buildings in Peter Cooper Village are taller, going to the 14th floor as in Mr. FitzPatrick's apartment, and affording views sometimes lacking in Stuyvesant Town, with its 11-story buildings. ''My grandmother was in Stuyvesant Town, and I'd go over and visit her there,'' recalled Mr. Marsh, who grew up in Peter Cooper Village and lives there today. ''I could always feel the difference.''
 Another fact of life -- unwelcome to some -- is the permanent presence of hundreds of students, for whom New York University has rented 175 Stuyvesant Town apartments as student housing. According to Mr. Garodnick, the students can sometimes create a ''dormlike atmosphere.'' At present, said Kelly Franklin, an N.Y.U. spokeswoman, 175 apartments are occupied by 315 students, all of them graduate level and a majority pursuing doctorates. The university has housed students there for six years, she said. 
 Before the sale, tenants certainly had their disputes with MetLife, but that hasn't made them any less cautious toward the new regime. On the one hand, there is an acknowledgment of the professional way the new owner takes care of its property; on the other, the rent increases that started under MetLife are persisting, along with a perceived eagerness to shuffle out rent-stabilized tenants.
 ''Some people have very positive feelings'' about Tishman Speyer, said Mr. Doyle, who has lived in Stuyvesant Town since his birth in 1952. One move that engendered good will over the winter was the complexwide installation of holiday decorations. ''I've met some of them, and they're very courteous and nice,'' Mr. Doyle added of the new maintenance team. In addition to the fitness center and greenmarket, Mr. Rubenstein said, Tishman Speyer has encouraged a concierge service called the Villager to offer a trolley service to Wall Street and the No. 6 station on 23rd Street. The trolleys were never given the go-ahead by MetLife, said Bill Seidler, the Villager's president. 
 Offering further evidence of that difference -- or perhaps merely evidence of complaints -- Tishman is also planning to dispatch ''property ambassadors'' to various buildings. 
 ''They seem to be paying more attention to details,'' Mr. Marsh said. ''They're doing nice things like retiling the compactor chutes.''What to Do
 Ms. Kurtz and Mr. FitzPatrick, the young couple from Peter Cooper Village, can't get enough of Petite Abeille and Vamos, restaurants at 20th Street and First Avenue that are welcoming to families. For those without children or with a baby sitter, the culinary and nightlife scenes of the East Village beckon to the south, as does the Gramercy area to the west. Of course, some find fun within the complex, which has 15 recreation areas, and offers courts for bocce, basketball and volleyball. The Commute
 From Stuyvesant Town, the L train stops at the corner of First Avenue and 14th Street, a few minutes by subway from the lines that run to Midtown and the Financial District from Union Square. Still, residents on the Avenue C side have a half-mile walk to that stop; alternatives include the M14D and the M21 buses. 
 On the Peter Cooper Village side, residents face a long walk along 23rd Street to the No. 6 train at Park Avenue South, or a ride down 23rd Street on the M23 bus, which arrives every five to eight minutes during the day. There are also the new trolleys.The Schools
 Outside the perimeter of the complex are several strong public schools -- among them, on East 19th Street, Public School 40, where 88.3 percent of students met standards on state and city math tests in 2004-05, and 89.1 percent met English standards. The citywide averages that year were 65.1 and 60.9 percent. 
 That year at Middle School 255, at the same address, 86 percent met standards in English, 86.4 in math, versus 43.3 and 40.8 percent citywide. 
 One of the few public high schools close by, on East 15th Street, is the Institute for Collaborative Education, where students averaged 493 on the verbal section of the SAT in 2004-05 and 451 in math, compared with 497 and 511 statewide.
 One nearby private option is the United Nations International School, which teaches Grades 9 through 12 on a campus north of Peter Cooper Village along F.D.R. Drive. In 2007-8, annual tuition ranged from $22,000 to $22,500.The History
 In the 19th century, before Town and Village arrived, the chunk of Manhattan they now occupy was in the Gashouse District, a slum filled with odoriferous gas tanks and tenement residents, including the Gashouse Gang, a group of misfits whose name was later adopted by a less objectionable club called the St. Louis Cardinals. 
 Nearly 200 years before the Gashouse tenements were erected, the land was farmed by Peter Stuyvesant, the final director-general of the New Amsterdam settlement before it was taken over by the British.
 In 1943, the city and MetLife cleared away most tenements to build housing, in large part for veterans returning from World War II. Going Forward
 In the short term, residents say, more grocery stores are needed in the area, as a D'Agostino on the grounds of Stuyvesant Town closed and Gristedes, also, will soon close two local stores.
 And looking ahead, the sheer size of the complex makes it unlikely that market-rate prices can be imposed, across the board, very quickly. As Mr. Miller of Miller Samuel put it, ''It would take past our lifetime with the number of units they have.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: ''SORT OF A THROWBACK'' -- One of the complex's 15 recreation areas -- which, beyond catering to children, offer facilities for everything from bocce to volleyball. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. 1)
CROSSROADS -- The 18-block complex, settling into its seventh decade, has 25,000 residents, many apprehensive about the new management's plans. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)
On the Market: 390 FIRST AVENUE -- A 1,223-square-foot two-bedroom unit on the 10th floor of Peter Cooper Village, for $4,550 a month. (866) 760-3319
647 EAST 14TH STREET -- An 11th-floor two-bedroom Stuyvesant Town apartment with fully renovated kitchen, for $3,675 a month. (866) 760-3319
 521 EAST 14TH STREET -- An 11th-floor one-bedroom Stuyvesant Town unit with granite counters and walk-in closets, for $2,975 a month. (866) 760-3319 (Photographs by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)(pg. 7)Map of Manhattan highlighting Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village. (pg. 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENT CONTROL (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (75%); VETERANS (51%) Stuyvesant Town (NYC); Peter Cooper Village (NYC); Geographic Profiles

PERSON: Jeff Vandam

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



14 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 231 words

HEADLINE: Ways to Prevent Family Homelessness

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Homeless Maze'' (editorial, March 25):
Though families in shelters are at an all-time high, that number alone does not define the depth of the challenge facing our city. Countless numbers of other families, who too must be considered homeless, are sleeping on living room couches in the overcrowded apartments of family members and friends -- the last desperate step before seeking shelter. 
 Thus, while we're pleased that the city is ameliorating serious deficiencies in its housing subsidy program, there's a cautionary note. Although rent assistance is an essential tool in the effort to move people out of shelters, we need to reach beyond shelter into our struggling communities with strategies that truly attack the root cause of family homelessness -- entrenched poverty. 
 So, in addition to a robust affordable housing plan, we also must invest in initiatives that genuinely focus on developing opportunities for all New Yorkers to share in the fruits of our economic prosperity, starting with living-wage jobs and health benefits. And in doing so, we can prevent vulnerable families from entering shelter in the first place, and ensure that those leaving shelter, receiving rent assistance, will simply be using it as a safety net on the road to financial independence. Arnold S. Cohen President and Chief Executive Partnership for the Homeless Chelsea

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (93%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); VULNERABLE HEALTH POPULATIONS (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); LIVING WAGE (71%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Homeless Persons; Editorials

ORGANIZATION: PARTNERSHIP FOR THE HOMELESS (54%)

PERSON: Arnold S Cohen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (85%) UNITED STATES (85%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



15 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 211 words

HEADLINE: Heather Boushey, Todd Tucker

 BODY:
Heather Marie Boushey and Todd Nathaniel Tucker were married yesterday. The bridegroom's father, the Rev. Dr. Robert Dale Tucker, a Southern Baptist minister, officiated in a nondenominational ceremony at Cafe Flora in Seattle. 
 The bride, 37, is keeping her name. She is a senior economist at the Center for Economic and Policy Research in Washington, a nonpartisan institute. She graduated from Hampshire College and received a doctorate in economics from the New School for Social Research.
She is a daughter of Bobbi and Michael G. Boushey of Woodinville, Wash. Her father retired as a machinist at Boeing in Everett, Wash. Her mother is a bookkeeper in Lynnwood, Wash.
 The bridegroom, 28, is the research director of the global trade watch division of Public Citizen, specializing in the legal, economic and political consequences of trade agreements, including Nafta. He graduated from George Washington University and received a master's in development studies from Cambridge University in England. 
 He is a son of Gail Atchison Tucker and Mr. Tucker of Louisville, Ky. His mother is a freelance writer. His father is a state program specialist there at the Corporation for National and Community Service, which operates AmeriCorps and other service programs.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (73%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (71%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BOEING CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (56%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (56%); CORP FOR NATIONAL & COMMUNITY SERVICE (55%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (70%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (77%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



16 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Humans vs. Cancer: Who's Winning Now?; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Feeding The Cancer Machine

BYLINE: By Shannon Brownlee. 
Shannon Brownlee, a senior fellow at the New America Foundation, is the author of the forthcoming ''Overtreated: Why Too Much Medicine Is Making Americans Sicker and Poorer.''

DATELINE: Annapolis, Md. 

 BODY:
HAVE you ever wondered why hospitals offer free cancer screening tests? You've heard the ads on radio, and seen them in newspapers, urging you to come to your local hospital for a free Pap smear, mammogram or prostate cancer blood test. 
 Hospitals would like you to think they are doing this out of the goodness of their hearts, that free cancer screening is a public service intended solely to improve your health. But there may be another motive at work here: providing free screening brings in new cancer patients, and cancer generates profits.
Has the profit motive gotten in the way of finding a cure for cancer or better treatment? Could it be that at least some of the $100 billion we spend each year on detecting and treating this disease is used not to improve the health of patients, but rather to prop up hospital finances? 
 Cancer makes money for hospitals in a couple of ways. First, it's a disease of aging, and that means the majority of people who get it are covered by Medicare, which always pays its bills. Second, many treatments for cancer patients are particularly profitable, especially compared to those for other diseases. 
 Hospitals generally make money on surgery to remove cancer. Then there are all the imaging tests, like CT scans and M.R.I.'s, which are also well reimbursed by Medicare and other payers. The more cancer patients a hospital can attract, the faster it can recoup capital investments in imaging machines. 
 Another big source of profit is cancer drugs. Worldwide, we spend about $35 billion a year on chemotherapy and other drugs related to cancer treatment. Hospitals make money on drugs by purchasing wholesale and charging insurers full price. Cancer doctors also purchase drugs wholesale, making as much as two-thirds of their income on the ''chemotherapy concession,'' in which they sell and administer chemotherapy drugs in their offices.
 Hospitals and doctors need to make money, of course, but the high profit margin in cancer has created a situation where providers have every reason to screen more people and treat those who are diagnosed with cancer more aggressively -- and few incentives to hold back, even if that's what the patient might prefer. Recognizing this, Medicare reduced its reimbursements for chemotherapy in 2005, but even with those changes, cancer remains an enormous economic engine in our health care system. 
 Sure, aggressive treatment is reducing mortality and improving the quality of life for some patients. Sometimes it even cures. But for many others, the cancer machine offers only marginal benefits at best, and providers push screening and aggressive treatment in part because they have nothing else to give, but also because it's profitable. How much of the money we spend on unnecessary or futile cancer treatment might be put to better use searching for real advances?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (96%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (93%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); BREAST CANCER SCREENING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (90%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (90%); ONCOLOGY (89%); CANCER DRUGS (89%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (87%); HEALTH CARE (78%); CANCER HOSPITALS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (74%); MEN'S HEALTH (73%); PROSTATE CANCER (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (73%); PROSTATE DISEASE (73%); MEDICARE (72%); ELDER HEALTH (71%); INSURANCE (70%); MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING (70%); PHARMACEUTICALS WHOLESALERS (69%) Cancer; Finances; Hospitals; Cancer

PERSON: Shannon Brownlee

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (59%) MARYLAND, USA (79%); MARYLAND USA (59%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



17 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: Bridge and Tunnel Vision

BYLINE: By Theodore W. Kheel. 
Theodore W. Kheel, a labor lawyer and mediator, is the author of ''The Keys to Conflict Resolution.''

 BODY:
THE three exhibitions on the master builder Robert Moses -- at the Museum of the City of New York, the Queens Museum of Art and Columbia University -- that are on view in New York City have neglected the mass transit issue almost as seriously as Moses did. 
 Perhaps Moses was doing what everyone else was doing, or perhaps he was leading the others. But it does a disservice to the region to ignore this piece of the Moses story, which deserves retelling. 
It was 1965. Moses' Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority was awash in funds; so was the Port Authority, headed by Austin Tobin. Meanwhile, the Transit Authority was facing a deficit and contemplating increasing the 15-cent fare even as transit workers were demanding higher wages. Moses and Tobin had built empires catering to the automobile; they were not concerned with mass transit's problems.
 At the time, I was a contract arbitrator of labor disputes between the Transit Authority and the transport workers union. As someone who knew a great deal about mass transit, I proposed that tolls for the city's bridges and tunnels be doubled, and the proceeds used to subsidize mass transit. If this proposal sounds mundane now, in 1965 it caused a sensation. It was front-page news in all the city's papers. My proposal was labeled ludicrous and reporters speculated that I had gone berserk. Moses and Tobin, normally archrivals, joined immediately in branding the proposal illegal. 
 But still, a seed of an idea had been planted, and it slowly grew. Within a few years, tolls were doubled and then tripled, and revenue from the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority was eventually used, in part, to finance mass transit.
 Fast forward to the present. Once again a transit problem confronts us, as we face the reality that car congestion is strangling the region's economy, destroying our health and damaging the atmosphere. And once again, a creative solution has been proposed, or rather, a pair of solutions, which -- like my two-pronged proposal in 1965 -- would turn car drivers' pain into mass transit's gain.
 Here are the old ideas in their new clothes. Prong No. 1 is congestion pricing: imposing a fee on cars driven in the city, which would discourage some from driving and raise revenues from those who do. Prong No. 2 is free mass transit: eliminating the bus and subway fare, and using the revenues from congestion pricing to cover the costs. Simple enough -- but as strange to our way of thinking as my proposal almost half a century ago.
 Here's what people are saying about these ideas.
 First, people seem to think congestion pricing is crazy. But congestion pricing is working in cities like London, Melbourne, Rome, Singapore and Stockholm. And there's no reason to think that it can't work here. 
 What about free transit? I recently financed a $100,000 study of the benefits of free mass transit, in the belief the benefits would outweigh the costs. Some commentators dismissed the idea as hopelessly utopian -- not knowing, perhaps, that only a small part of transit costs are covered today by fares, and that funds from congestion pricing could comfortably replace that amount. 
 Yet the proposal intrigued people at the same time it surprised them. Newspapers, television stations and public radio picked up the story. One blog described the proliferating discussion as a ''free frenzy.'' 
 And that takes me back to Moses and the 1960s. The twin concepts of congestion pricing and free transit are seedlings, only recently planted. They make too much sense, however, not to take hold. 
 I predict that 50 years from today, these ideas will seem as mundane as my 1965 suggestion that revenue from Moses' Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority be applied to subsidize mass transit. If, however, we remember what Moses did, perhaps we could move our thinking forward just a little faster. I think we could.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIDGES & TUNNELS (92%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (74%); PORT AUTHORITIES (70%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (67%) Transit Systems; Bridges and Tunnels; Tolls; Buses; Subways; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Roads and Traffic

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%)

PERSON: Theodore W Kheel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



18 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1778 words

HEADLINE: In a New Web World, Bar Codes May Talk With Your Cellphone

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY; Martin Fackler contributed reporting from Tokyo.

 BODY:
It sounds like something straight out of a futuristic film: House hunters, driving past a for-sale sign, stop and point their cellphone at the sign. With a click, their cellphone screen displays the asking price, the number of bedrooms and baths and lots of other details about the house.
 Media experts say that cellphones, the Swiss Army knives of technology, are quickly heading in this direction. New technology, already in use in parts of Asia but still in development in the United States, allows the phones to connect everyday objects with the Internet.
In their new incarnation, cellphones become a sort of digital remote control, as one CBS executive put it. With a wave, the phone can read encoded information on everyday objects and translate that into videos, pictures or text files on its screen. 
 ''The cellphone is the natural tool to combine the physical world with the digital world,'' that executive, Cyriac Roeding, the head of mobile-phone applications for CBS, said the other day.
 In Japan, McDonald's customers can already point their cellphones at the wrapping on their hamburgers and get nutrition information on their screens. Users there can also point their phones at magazine ads to receive insurance quotes, and board airplanes using their phones rather than paper tickets. And film promoters can send their movie trailers from billboards. 
 Advertisers say they are interested in offering similar capabilities in the United States, but cellphones in the States do not come with the necessary software. For now, consumers have to download the technology themselves.
 Still, big advertising and technology companies like Hewlett-Packard and the Publicis Groupe, an advertising conglomerate, are pushing to popularize the technology here.
 Until now, in most parts of the world, Web surfing has been separate from everyday activities like riding the train, watching television and driving. But the new technology may erode that distinction.
 ''You've picked up this product, and you don't want to go back to your PC,'' said Tim Kindberg, a senior research at the Bristol, England, lab of Hewlett-Packard. ''Or you're outside this building, and you want more information. We call it the 'physical hyperlink.' '' 
 In much the same way that Web publishing took off because of the ability to link to other people's sites, cellphone technologies linking everyday objects with the Web would reveal the digitally encoded attributes of tangible things on grocery shelves or newsstands. 
 ''Everything in the physical world has information related to it somewhere electronically, including yourself and the desk you're sitting in,'' said Chas Fritz, chief executive of NeoMedia Technologies, a company developing these cellphone capacities.
 The most promising way to link cellphones with physical objects is a new generation of bar codes: square-shaped mosaics of black and white boxes that can hold much more information than traditional bar codes. The cameras on cellphones scan the codes, and then the codes are translated into videos, music or text on the phone screens.
 American universities and technology companies have been experimenting with the codes in their labs for several years. Now, as more cellphones come equipped with cameras and the ability to run small computer programs, the codes are beginning to appear on some state drivers' licenses and on some mailing labels, mostly for commercial use.
 There are other technologies being developed for consumers to scan objects, including radio waves, computer chips or satellite location systems, but the bar code technology is the most developed -- and simple and cheap enough even for individuals to publish them on printed materials or on Web sites.
 But Hewlett-Packard and the Publicis Groupe are meeting for the second time with cellphone companies in May to advocate for the technology. Technology companies like Motorola and Microsoft have also been researching uses for the codes.
 In Japan, the codes did not become mainstream until the largest cellphone companies started loading the code readers on all new phones a few years ago. Now, millions of people have the capability built into their phones, and businesses, in turn, are using them all over -- on billboards, street signs, published materials and even food packaging.
 In the late 1990s, several dozen start-up companies tried to create devices that would scan print content and ads and then reveal extra information to the reader. But consumers balked at using a special device only to interact with publications.
 But now the time seems right for cellphones, ubiquitous and increasingly sold with cameras, to be pressed into service as the scanners. 
 ''There are three things you tend to carry -- your keys, your wallet and your phone,'' said Rishad Tobaccowala, chief executive of Denuo, a unit of the Publicis Groupe that focuses on emerging and future technologies. ''I can see something in advertising in one place, scan it with my phone and recall it later when I am shopping. Or, imagine, I can buy it using my phone.''
 About a third of the 84 million households with cellphones in the United States have phones that have cameras on them, according to Forrester Research, and that number is expected to grow as consumers replace their phones. But few people with those phones have downloaded the software to read the codes.
 In Japan, some highway billboards have codes large enough for passing motorists to read them with their phones. Hospitals put them on prescriptions, allowing pharmacies to instantly scan the medical information rather than read it. Supermarkets stick them on meat and egg packaging to give expiration dates and even the names of the farmers who produced them. 
 One of the most popular uses in Japan has been paperless airline tickets. About 10 percent of the people who take domestic flights of All Nippon Airways now use the codes on their cellphones instead of printed tickets. 
 Yasuko Nishigai, 22, used her cellphone recently to buy a ticket from Tokyo to the Japanese tropical island of Okinawa. To board her flight, she waved the code on her cellphone screen over a scanner. 
 ''I didn't use a single piece of paper, just my phone,'' she said.
 The codes are ''a natural extension of print,'' said Nina Link, the president of the Magazine Publishers Association. ''How many times have you engaged with a magazine and you've seen something and you've said, 'Boy, I'd really like to remember to get that information.' And you have to remember to write down the URL.''
 The new technology would allow phones to read the codes from computer screens, too. Commuters rushing out the door could scan Web sites on their computer screens with their phones to take the content with them. MySpace users could put a code on their personal pages, so that their friends can quickly transfer the profiles to their phones.
 The technology would also allow advertisers to do something they could never effectively do before: monitor the impact of their ads in old media like magazines and billboards by measuring how often their codes are clicked. 
 In the Philippines, the Daily Philippines newspaper has run ads with the codes. In Britain, News Group Newspapers, the division of the News Corporation that includes newspapers like The Sun, is testing the codes along with some of its sports articles. Readers can scan the code in the newspaper and then see videos relating to the article. Similarly, Economie Matin, a magazine in France, is testing the codes.
 In the United States last fall, the Canadian alternative rock band Barenaked Ladies placed the codes on concert posters. The publisher Prentice Hall is including the codes in a new marketing textbook for undergraduates so that they can get updates on case studies using the codes.
 Executives at Verizon, AT&T and Sprint declined to say whether they were in discussions with the companies that make the code reading technology. Bar code companies said the carriers stood to benefit from the codes because they might encourage consumers to add Internet service plans to their accounts and spend more time on their phones. 
 The wireless companies have other options to help cellphones interact with the physical world. They could, for instance, adopt image recognition software, which would allow phones to recognize anything -- a Coca-Cola can, for example -- and deliver related messages. Or, text messaging, currently the most common way that advertisers interact with consumers on their phones, has many advertiser applications.
 Advertisers have also experimented with Bluetooth wireless devices and radio frequency identification to beam messages from billboards to consumers' cellphones, but those technologies are more expensive than the codes. 
 Even if the wireless companies adopt the bar codes, they will have several formats to choose from. The most widely used ones have names like Semacode, QR Code and Qode.
 Getting consumers to use new technologies like these codes takes a lot of marketing by the carriers, said David Oberholzer, associate director of content programming at Verizon Wireless. He said Verizon is just starting to profit from the work it did to create interest in text messaging.
 ''The consumer needs a reason to do it,'' said Jim Levinger, chief executive of Nextcode, a bar code company. ''They don't just wake up and say, 'Hey, let's go scan some bar codes.' ''Demonstrating the Cellphone Code Reader
 In some Asian countries, bar code readers come installed on new cellphones. For now in the United States, consumers who want to try the technology have to download the reader software.
 The capabilities are still rudimentary in America, but here is a basic demonstration.
 The codes can be read using software from NeoMedia Technologies. The software will work on many phones -- like new models of Motorola's Razr and Rokr, some Nokia phones, most new Sony Ericsson phones, and Samsung models. It will not work on any Palm devices or phones offered by Verizon. 
 To see if your phone is capable of operating the code reader, visit http://get.qode.com on your phone's Web browser. Alternatively, you can send the word ''qode'' in a text message to 66268, and instructions will be sent to your phone.
 Once the reader program is installed, start the program, aim your camera phone at the code above and then take a photo. The code will then initiate a response on your phone's screen.
 You can view that response even if the qode.com site says that your phone cannot use the code reader. On the site, click on Web QodeWindow and enter the keyword NYTCODE to see the response the code generates.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Directions on how to use this code with your cellphone. Page 20. (pg. 1)
 The pattern on a building in Tokyo is filled with information that can be read by a properly programmed camera phone. The technology has many other uses, like boarding an airplane without a paper ticket. (Photo by Ko Sasaki for The New York Times)(pg. 20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (94%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (78%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (74%); PUBLISHING (72%); FAST FOOD (72%); REMOTE CONTROL DEVICES (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (68%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (66%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Cellular Telephones; Computers and the Internet; Bar Codes; Recordings and Downloads (Video); Telephones and Telecommunications

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (82%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Hewlett-Packard Co; Publicis Groupe

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (82%); HPQ (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (82%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (82%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (82%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (82%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: Louise Story

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (55%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (72%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (57%); ENGLAND (52%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



19 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; DEMOGRAPHICS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Big Hispanic Undercount? Town Wants Its Own Tally

BYLINE: By NICOLE COTRONEO

DATELINE: GREENPORT 

 BODY:
WITH an uncalculated influx of Hispanic immigrants living in a finite pool of affordable housing, the situation in this North Fork village is a common one across Long Island. But a recent response by village government is not. 
 Beginning in November, the village dispatched 11 pairs of canvassers, with English and Spanish speakers, to gather data for what Suffolk County officials say they think is the first official census undertaken by a local government within the county.
Mayor David E. Kapell, who will step down this year, has said the census data could help the village better provide services to all residents and plan for the future. Mayor-elect David Nyce said he hoped to use the data to help create a master plan for the village. 
 Mr. Kapell publicly announced the results on Tuesday, and the results were in line with his prediction that the 2000 federal census grossly underestimated the Hispanic population in Greenport and did not count many part-time residents. 
 The federal census calculated the village's full-time population at 2,048 and Hispanic full-time residents at 353 (17 percent of the total). The new census reports the population at 3,450 and Hispanic residents 730 (or 21 percent of the total). The total includes 1,000 part-time residents, none of them Hispanic.
 Trained village residents collected data from 203 households chosen at random, Mr. Kapell said. The report says the census had a 5 percent margin of error.
 The census was not universally popular. Some Hispanic residents were initially wary. And Steve Levy, the county executive, has condemned Mr. Kapell for taking it on. ''To squander precious funds on those who broke the law to get here seems foolhardy,'' Mr. Levy said when canvassers were sent out in November.
 The project was largely financed by a grant from the Horace Hagedorn Foundation, in Port Washington, which supports initiatives to diminish tensions between citizens and immigrants. The foundation's executive director, Darren Sandow, said it also hired a pollster to analyze the data.
 A week before he went public with the results, Mr. Kapell said in an interview that he saw two accelerating trends. ''One is the conversion of historically year-round residences to part time,'' he said, ''and the other is this influx of largely Hispanic immigrants coming in to provide the labor that would have been lost by the ones who sold out to the part-timers.''
 Those trends will soon lead to a housing crisis, Mr. Kapell said. ''The problem with our real estate economy on the East End is that it's monopolized by people earning Wall Street incomes,'' he said. ''People earning Main Street incomes simply can't compete.''
 But Mr. Nyce, who was elected last month to succeed Mr. Kapell, said he did not believe the housing situation had reached a crisis point.
 Sister Margaret Smyth of the North Fork Spanish Apostolate, based in Riverhead, coordinated the canvassing teams, and Antonio Secaida was among her recruits. A Guatemalan immigrant, he has lived in Greenport with his wife and three children for 11 years and became an American citizen in December.
 Immigrants have been wary of participating in federal censuses, he said, because ''they think Immigration will get the census.'' He said he and his neighbors were guaranteed anonymity in the Greenport census. 
 Mr. Secaida said that he and his neighbors were assured the data would help the village ''provide better services -- the hospitals and the schools,'' but that he was skeptical.
 Sister Smyth said she was optimistic the data would help the school system determine how many children would enroll in the fall. ''Greenport School has always said that they've been undercounted as far as free lunches were concerned,'' she said.
 Mr. Kapell said the biggest challenge for the village board in responding to the data was how to embrace the growing Hispanic population.
 ''We know that many of these people are undocumented,'' he said. ''Given the fact that they have embedded themselves so completely in our midst, it is now incumbent on village government to pursue policies to promote progress for Latinos.''
 The census was meant to be only the beginning of such an effort, Mr. Sandow said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: VOLUNTEER -- Antonio Secaida with his wife and daughter. (Photo by Deirdre Brennan for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (95%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); COUNTIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TRENDS (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); EXECUTIVES (64%) Population; Census; Hispanic-Americans

PERSON: David (Mayor) Kapell; Nicole Cotroneo

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) Greenport (NY)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



20 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: A Victory on Main Street

 BODY:
The village of Greenport has come up with an intriguing model for creating affordable housing, one that seeks to level the village's badly tilted real estate playing field back in favor of regular working people. There is a dwindling number of those in Greenport, whose population of wealthy summer residents has grown significantly in recent years. 
 The idea came as part of a settlement of a long-running dispute over two acres of waterfront property that, in the ordinary Long Island scheme of things, would have been destined -- or doomed, depending on your perspective and tax bracket -- to become luxury housing for the village's increasingly Manhattan-based demographic.
The agreement was brokered by Mayor David Kapell, who says he is all for economic growth in his village but hates the thought of housing prices being skewed so high by rich outsiders that they force out people who live and work in Greenport year-round -- those with Main Street, not Wall Street, incomes.
 Under the plan, the property, an old oyster-packing operation, would be redeveloped for both commercial and residential use. There would be one shop repairing and selling yachts, and another freezing and packing scallops. There would be a dozen 1,500-square-foot apartments sold at market -- i.e., luxury -- rates. And then there would be five little one-bedrooms, each 650 square feet, sold for $175,000, only to residents who live or work in Greenport full time. The residency requirement would apply to all future sales and units could not be combined into bigger ones, so -- in theory, anyway -- they would always be too small for the lofty appetites of hedge-fund managers, but just right for young teachers, firefighters or retirees.
 Mr. Kapell, who has been in the real estate business for decades, thinks his plan would let the free market do its thing, but tweak it just enough to help the average Greenporter. This sort of idea could and should take hold across Long Island, if only communities could overcome their resistance to higher-density housing and accept the idea of giving a leg up to the dreams of ordinary Long Islanders. 
 A postscript: Greenport's tiny experiment in resisting the gentrification juggernaut is further evidence of the political distinctiveness, civil ingenuity and creative enthusiasm of Mayor Kapell, who is leaving office next month after 28 years in public life, 13 as mayor. Mr. Kapell has long been a refreshing oddity in a political landscape where the knee-jerk response to new challenges ranges from ''You can't do that'' to ''Not in my backyard'' to the all-purpose ''No.''
 Mr. Kapell is the original ''Yes, in my backyard'' politician. He is committed to preserving Greenport's identity as a working harbor town, not a fake Ye Olde Village smelling of potpourri. He has worked aggressively to welcome new things -- a park, a carousel, an ice rink, a power plant, community patrols in red berets, affordable housing, even Latino immigrants -- and his village, once a dumpy, corrupt East End dead end, has thrived for it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); MAYORS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (53%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Housing; Editorials

PERSON: David (Mayor) Kapell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Greenport (NY)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



21 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1624 words

HEADLINE: POOREST NATIONS WILL BEAR BRUNT AS WORLD WARMS

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
The world's richest countries, which have contributed by far the most to the atmospheric changes linked to global warming, are already spending billions of dollars to limit their own risks from its worst consequences, like drought and rising seas.
 But despite longstanding treaty commitments to help poor countries deal with warming, these industrial powers are spending just tens of millions of dollars on ways to limit climate and coastal hazards in the world's most vulnerable regions -- most of them close to the equator and overwhelmingly poor.
Next Friday, a new report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, a United Nations body that since 1990 has been assessing global warming, will underline this growing climate divide, according to scientists involved in writing it -- with wealthy nations far from the equator not only experiencing fewer effects but also better able to withstand them.
 Two-thirds of the atmospheric buildup of carbon dioxide, a heat-trapping greenhouse gas that can persist in the air for centuries, has come in nearly equal proportions from the United States and Western European countries. Those and other wealthy nations are investing in windmill-powered plants that turn seawater to drinking water, in flood barriers and floatable homes, and in grains and soybeans genetically altered to flourish even in a drought. 
 In contrast, Africa accounts for less than 3 percent of the global emissions of carbon dioxide from fuel burning since 1900, yet its 840 million people face some of the biggest risks from drought and disrupted water supplies, according to new scientific assessments. As the oceans swell with water from melting ice sheets, it is the crowded river deltas in southern Asia and Egypt, along with small island nations, that are most at risk. 
 ''Like the sinking of the Titanic, catastrophes are not democratic,'' said Henry I. Miller, a fellow with the Hoover Institution at Stanford University. ''A much higher fraction of passengers from the cheaper decks were lost. We'll see the same phenomenon with global warming.''
 Those in harm's way are beginning to speak out. ''We have a message here to tell these countries, that you are causing aggression to us by causing global warming,'' President Yoweri Museveni of Uganda said at the African Union summit in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, in February. ''Alaska will probably become good for agriculture, Siberia will probably become good for agriculture, but where does that leave Africa?'' 
 Scientists say it has become increasingly clear that worldwide precipitation is shifting away from the equator and toward the poles. That will nourish crops in warming regions like Canada and Siberia while parching countries -- like Malawi in sub-Saharan Africa -- which are already prone to drought. 
 While rich countries are hardly immune from drought and flooding, their wealth will largely insulate them from harm, at least for the next generation or two, many experts say. 
 Cities in Texas, California and Australia are already building or planning desalination plants, for example. And federal studies have shown that desalination can work far from the sea, purifying water from brackish aquifers deep in the ground in places like New Mexico. 
 ''The inequity of this whole situation is really enormous if you look at who's responsible and who's suffering as a result,'' said Rajendra K. Pachauri, chairman of the United Nations climate panel. In its most recent report, in February, the panel said that decades of warming and rising seas were inevitable with the existing greenhouse-gas buildup, no matter what was done about cutting future greenhouse gas emissions.
 Mr. Miller, of the Hoover Institution, said the world should focus less on trying to rapidly cut greenhouse gases and more on helping regions at risk become more resilient. 
 Many other experts insist this is not an either-or situation. They say that cutting the vulnerability of poor regions needs much more attention, but add that unless emissions are curbed, there will be centuries of warming and rising seas that will threaten ecosystems, water supplies, and resources from the poles to the equator, harming rich and poor. 
 Cynthia E. Rosenzweig, a NASA expert on climate and agriculture who is a lead author of the United Nations panel's forthcoming impacts report, said that while the richer northern nations may benefit temporarily, ''As you march through the decades, at some point -- and we don't know where these inflection points are -- negative effects of climate change dominate everywhere.'' 
 There are some hints that wealthier countries are beginning to shift their focus toward fostering adaptation to warming outside their own borders. Relief organizations including Oxfam and the International Red Cross, foreseeing a world of worsening climate-driven disasters, are turning some of their attention toward projects like expanding mangrove forests as a buffer against storm surges, planting trees on slopes to prevent landslides, or building shelters on high ground.
 Some officials from the United States, Britain and Japan say foreign-aid spending can be directed at easing the risks from climate change. The United States, for example, has promoted its three-year-old Millennium Challenge Corporation as a source of financing for projects in poor countries that will foster resilience. It has just begun to consider environmental benefits of projects, officials say.
 Industrialized countries bound by the Kyoto Protocol, the climate pact rejected by the Bush administration, project that hundreds of millions of dollars will soon flow via that treaty into a climate adaptation fund . 
 But for now, the actual spending in adaptation projects in the world's most vulnerable spots, totaling around $40 million a year, ''borders on the derisory,'' said Kevin Watkins, the director of the United Nations Human Development Report Office , which tracks factors affecting the quality of life around the world.
 The lack of climate aid persists even though nearly all the world's industrialized nations, including the United States under the first President Bush, pledged to help when they signed the first global warming treaty, the Framework Convention on Climate Change , in 1992. Under that treaty, industrialized countries promised to assist others ''that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change in meeting costs of adaptation.'' It did not specify how much they would pay. 
 A $3 billion Global Environmental Facility fund maintained by contributions from developed countries has nearly $1 billion set aside for projects in poorer countries that limit emissions of greenhouse gases. But critics say those projects often do not have direct local benefits, and many are happening in the large fast-industrializing developing countries -- not the poorest ones. 
 James L. Connaughton, President Bush's top adviser on environmental issues, defended the focus on broader development efforts. ''If we can shape several billion dollars in already massive development funding toward adaptation, that's a lot more powerful than scrounging for a few million more for a fund that's labeled climate,'' he said.
 But it is clear that the rich countries are far ahead of the poor ones in adapting to climate change. For example, American farmers are taking advantage of advances in genetically modified crops to prosper in dry or wet years, said Donald Coxe, an investment strategist in Chicago who tracks climate, agriculture and energy for the BMO Financial Group. The new seed varieties can compensate for a 10 or 15 percent drop in rainfall, he said, just the kind of change projected in some regions around the tropics. But, he said, the European Union still opposes efforts to sell such modified grains in Africa and other developing regions.
 Technology also aids farmers in the north. John Reifstack, a third-generation farmer in Champaign, Ill., said he would soon plant more than 30 million genetically modified corn seeds on 1,000 acres. It will take him about five days, he said, a pace that would have been impossible just four years ago. (Speedy planting means the crop is more likely to pollinate before the first heat waves, keeping yields high.) The seed costs 30 percent more than standard varieties, he said, but the premium is worth it. Precipitation is still vital, he said, repeating an old saw: ''Rain makes grain.'' But if disaster strikes, crop insurance will keep him in business.
 All of these factors together increase resilience, Mr. Reifstack and agriculture experts said, and they are likely to keep the first world farming for generations to come. 
 Robert O. Mendelsohn, an economist at Yale focused on climate, said that in the face of warming, it might be necessary to abandon the longstanding notion that all places might someday feed themselves. Poor regions reliant on unpredictable rainfall, he said, should be encouraged to shift people out of farming and into urban areas and import their food from northern countries.
 Another option, experts say, is helping poor regions do a better job of forecasting weather. In parts of India, farmers still rely more on astrologers for monsoon predictions than government meteorologists. 
 Michael H. Glantz, an expert on climate hazards at the National Center for Atmospheric Research who has spent two decades pressing for more work on adaptation to warming, has called for wealthy countries to help establish a center for climate and water monitoring in Africa, run by Africans. But for now, he says he is doubtful that much will be done. 
 ''The third world has been on its own,'' he said, ''and I think it pretty much will remain on its own.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: A woman harvesting corn in Malawi, an African country that is already prone to drought and faces grim prospects under global warming. (Photo by Joao Silva for The New York Times)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); DROUGHT (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); WATER QUALITY (64%) Weather; Global Warming; United States International Relations; Foreign Aid; Treaties; Third World and Developing Countries; Weather

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (57%)

PERSON: Andrew C Revkin

GEOGRAPHIC: ADIS ABEBA, ETHIOPIA (79%) EQUATOR (93%); ALASKA, USA (79%) AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MALAWI (92%); ETHIOPIA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EGYPT (79%); ASIA (79%); UGANDA (74%) Great Britain; Japan

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



22 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; AMAZING +: Driven to Excel; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4564 words

HEADLINE: For Girls, It's Be Yourself, and Be Perfect, Too

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER

DATELINE: NEWTON, Mass., March 31 

 BODY:
To anyone who knows 17-year-old Esther Mobley, one of the best students at one of the best public high schools in the country, it is absurd to think she doesn't measure up. But Esther herself is quick to set the record straight. 
 ''First of all, I'm a terrible athlete,'' she said over lunch one day.
''I run, I do, but not very quickly, and always exhaustedly,'' she continued. ''This is one of the things I'm most insecure about. You meet someone, especially on a college tour, adults ask you what you do. They say, 'What sports do you play?' I don't play any sports. It's awkward.''
 Esther, a willowy, effervescent senior, turned to her friend Colby Kennedy. Colby, 17, is also a great student, a classical pianist, fluent in Spanish, and a three-season varsity runner and track captain. Did Colby worry, Esther asked, that she fell short in some way? 
 ''Or,'' said Esther, and now her tone was a touch sarcastic, ''do you just have it all already?'' 
 They both burst out laughing. 
 Esther and Colby are two of the amazing girls at Newton North High School here in this affluent suburb just outside Boston. ''Amazing girls'' translation: Girls by the dozen who are high achieving, ambitious and confident (if not immune to the usual adolescent insecurities and meltdowns.) Girls who do everything: Varsity sports. Student government. Theater. Community service. Girls who have grown up learning they can do anything a boy can do, which is anything they want to do. 
 But being an amazing girl often doesn't feel like enough these days when you're competing with all the other amazing girls around the country who are applying to the same elite colleges that you have been encouraged to aspire to practically all your life. 
 An athlete, after all, is one of the few things Esther isn't. A few of the things she is: a standout in Advanced Placement Latin and honors philosophy/literature who can expound on the beauty of the subjunctive tense in Catullus and on Kierkegaard's existential choices. A writer whose junior thesis for Advanced Placement history won Newton North's top prize. An actress. President of her church youth group. 
 To spend several months in a pressure cooker like Newton North is to see what a girl can be -- what any young person can be -- when encouraged by committed teachers and by engaged parents who can give them wide-ranging opportunities. 
 It is also to see these girls struggle to navigate the conflicting messages they have been absorbing, if not from their parents then from the culture, since elementary school. The first message: Bring home A's. Do everything. Get into a top college -- which doesn't have to be in the Ivy League, or one of the other elites like Williams, Tufts or Bowdoin, but should be a ''name'' school. 
 The second message: Be yourself. Have fun. Don't work too hard. 
 And, for all their accomplishments and ambitions, the amazing girls, as their teachers and classmates call them, are not immune to the third message: While it is now cool to be smart, it is not enough to be smart.
 You still have to be pretty, thin and, as one of Esther's classmates, Kat Jiang, a go-to stage manager for student theater who has a perfect 2400 score on her SATs, wrote in an e-mail message, ''It's out of style to admit it, but it is more important to be hot than smart.'' 
 ''Effortlessly hot,'' Kat added. 
 If you are free to be everything, you are also expected to be everything. What it comes down to, in this place and time, is that the eternal adolescent search for self is going on at the same time as the quest for the perfect resume. For Esther, as for high school seniors everywhere, this is a big weekend for finding out how your resume measured up: The college acceptances, and rejections, are rolling in. 
 ''You want to achieve,'' Esther said. ''But how do you achieve and still be genuine?'' 
 If it all seems overwhelming at times, then the multitasking adults in Newton have the answer: Balance. Strive for balance. 
 But balance is out the window when you're a high-achieving senior in the home stretch of the race for which all the years of achieving and the disciplined focusing on the future have been preparing you. These students are aware that because more girls apply to college than boys, amid concerns about gender balance, boys may have an edge at some small selective colleges.
 ''You're supposed to have all these extracurriculars, to play sports and do theater,'' said another of Esther's 17-year-old classmates, Julie Mhlaba, who aspires to medical school and juggles three Advanced Placement classes, gospel choir and a part-time job as a waitress. ''You're supposed to do well in your classes and still have time to go out.'' 
 ''You're supposed to do all these things,'' Julie said, ''and not go insane.'' Stress Trumps Relaxation
 Newton, which has a population of almost 84,000, is known for a liberal sensibility and a high concentration of professionals like doctors, lawyers and academics. Six miles west of Boston, with its heavily settled neighborhoods, bustling downtowns and high numbers of immigrants, Newton is a suburb with an urban feel. 
 The main shopping area, in Newton Centre, is a concrete manifestation of the conflicting messages Esther and the other girls are constantly struggling to decode. In one five-block stretch are two Starbucks and one Peets Coffee & Tea, several psychotherapists' offices, three SAT test-prep services, two after-school math programs, and three yoga studios promising relaxation and inner peace. 
 Smack in the middle of all of this is Esther's church, the 227-year-old First Baptist, which welcomes everyone regardless of race, sexual orientation or denomination, and where Esther puts in a lot of time. 
 The test-prep business is booming. Kaplan (''Be the ideal college applicant!'') is practically around the corner from Chyten (''Our average SAT II score across all subjects is 720!''), which is three blocks from Princeton Review (''We're all about scoring more!''). My First Yoga (for children 3 and up), with its founder playing up her Harvard degree, is conveniently located above Chyten, which includes the SAT Cafe. 
 High-priced SAT prep has become almost routine at schools like Newton North. Not to hire the extra help is practically an act of rebellion. 
 ''I think it's unfair,'' Esther said, explaining why she decided against an SAT tutor, though she worried about her score (ultimately getting, as she put it, ''above 2000''). ''Why do I deserve this leg up?'' 
 Parents view Newton's expensive real estate -- the median house price in 2006 was $730,000 -- and high taxes as the price of admission to the prized public schools. There are less affluent parents, small-business owners, carpenters, plumbers, social workers and high school guidance counselors, but many of these families arrived decades ago when it was possible to buy a nice two-story Colonial for $150,000 or less. 
 Newton North, one of two outstanding public high schools here, is known for its academic rigor, but also its vocational education, reflecting the wide range of its 1,967 students. Nearly 73 percent of them are white, 7.3 percent black, nearly 12 percent Asian and 7.5 percent Hispanic. Many of the black and Hispanic students live in the Roxbury and Dorchester neighborhoods of Boston, and are bused in under a 35-year-old voluntary integration program.
 Newton North has a student theater, winning athletic teams and dozens of after-school clubs (ultimate Frisbee, mock trial, black leadership, Hispanic culture, Israeli dance). There is an emphasis on nonconformity -- even if it is often conformity dressed up as nonconformity -- and an absence of such high school conventions as, say, homecoming queens, valedictorians and class rankings. 'Superhuman' Resistance
 Jennifer Price, the Newton North principal, said she and her faculty emphasized to students that they could win admission to many excellent colleges without organizing their entire lives around resume building. By age 14, Ms. Price said, the school's highest fliers are already worrying about marketing themselves to colleges: ''You almost have to be superhuman to resist the pressure.'' 
 If more students aren't listening to the message that they can relax a bit, one reason may be that a lot of the people delivering the message went to the elite colleges. Ms. Price has an undergraduate degree from Princeton -- she makes a point of saying that she got in because she was recruited to play varsity field hockey -- and is a doctoral candidate at Harvard. Many of the teachers have degrees from the Ivy League and other elite schools. 
 But the message also tends to get drowned out when parents bump into each other at Whole Foods and share news about whose son or daughter just got accepted (or not) at Harvard, Yale, Brown, Penn or Stanford. 
 Or when the final edition of the award-winning student newspaper, the Newtonite, comes out every June, with its two-page spread listing all the seniors, and their colleges. For that entire week, Esther says, everyone pores over the names, obsessing about who is going where. 
 ''In a lot of ways, it's all about that one week,'' she said. 
 There is something about the lives these girls lead -- their jam-packed schedules, the amped-up multitasking, the focus on a narrow group of the nation's most selective colleges -- that speaks of a profound anxiety in the young people, but perhaps even more so in their parents, about the ability of the next generation to afford to raise their families in a place like Newton.
 Admission to a brand-name college is viewed by many parents, and their children, as holding the best promise of professional success and economic well-being in an increasingly competitive world. 
 ''It's, like, a really big deal to go into a lucrative profession so that you can provide for your kids, and they can grow up in a place like the place where you grew up,'' Kat said. 
 Esther, however, is aiming for a decidedly nonlucrative profession. Inspired by her father, Greg Mobley, who is a Biblical scholar, she wants to be a theologian. 
 She says she is interested in ''Scripture, the Bible, the development of organized religion, thinking about all this, writing about all this, teaching about all this.'' More than anything else, she wrote in an e-mail message, she wants to be a writer, ''and religion is what I most like to write about.''
 ''I have such a strong sense of being supported by my faith,'' she continued. ''It gives me priorities. That's why I'm not concerned about making money, because I know that there is so much more to living a rich life than having money.'' 
 First Baptist Church counts on Esther. She organizes pancake suppers, tutors a young congregant and helps lead the youth group's outreach to the poor.
 On a springlike Sunday afternoon toward the end of winter, Esther could be found with her father, her two brothers and members of her youth group handing out food to homeless people on Boston Common. She had spent the morning in church. 
 About 2 p.m., a text message flashed across her cellphone from Gabe Gladstone, a co-captain of mock trial: ''Where are you?'' Esther, a key member of the group, was needed at a meeting. 
 Esther messaged back: ''I'm feeding the homeless, I'll come when God's work is done.'' Fending Off 'Anorexia of the Soul'
 On a Saturday afternoon in late November, Esther and her mother, Page Kelley, sat at the dining room table talking about the contradictions and complexities of life in Newton. Esther's father was with his sons, Gregory, 15, who plays varsity basketball for Newton North, and Tommy, 10, coaching Tommy's basketball team. 
 Ms. Kelley, 47, an assistant federal public defender, and Mr. Mobley, 49, a professor at Andover Newton Theological School in Newton, grew up in Kentucky and came north for college. Ms. Kelley is a graduate of Smith College and Harvard Law School. Mr. Mobley has two graduate degrees from Harvard. 
 Amid all the competitiveness and consumerism, and the obsession with achievement in Newton, Ms. Kelley said, ''You just hope your child doesn't have anorexia of the soul.'' 
 ''It's the idea that you end up with this strange drive,'' she continued. ''One of the great things about Esther is that she does have some kind of spiritual life. You just hope your kid has good priorities. We keep saying to her: 'The name of the college you go to doesn't matter. There are a lot of good colleges out there.' '' 
 Esther said her mother is her role model. ''I think the work she does is very noble,'' she said. 
 ''She has these impressive degrees,'' Esther said, ''and she chooses to do something where she's not making as much money as she could.'' 
 As close as mother and daughter are, there is one important generational divide. ''My mother applied to one college,'' Esther said. ''She got in, she went.'' 
 Back from basketball practice with his sons, Mr. Mobley joined the conversation. To Mr. Mobley, a formalized, competitive culture pervades everything from youth sports to getting into college. He pointed out to his wife that the lives of their three children were far more directed ''than any of the aimless hours I spent in my youth daydreaming and meandering.''
 Ms. Kelley asked, ''Is that because of us?''
 ''Yes -- and no,'' he said. ''It's because of 2006 in America, and the Northeast.''
 The bar for achievement keeps being raised for each generation, he said: ''Our children start where we finished.'' 
 As the afternoon turned into early evening, Esther went out to meet her best friend, Aliza Edelstein. The family dog, a Jack Russell terrier named Bandit, was underfoot, trolling for affection. 
 ''I'm not worried about Esther because I know her,'' Mr. Mobley said. ''Esther's character is sealed in some fundamental way.'' 
 Ms. Kelley, however, wondered aloud: ''Don't you worry that she never rebelled? When I was growing up, you were supposed to rebel.'' 
 But she acknowledged that she had sent her own mixed signals. ''As I'm sitting here saying I don't care what kind of grades she gets, I'm thinking, she comes home with a B, and I say: 'What'd you get a B for? Who gave you a B? I'm going to talk to them.' 
 ''You do want your child to do well.'' 
 Mr. Mobley nodded. ''We're not above it,'' he said. ''It's complicated.''On a Fierce Mission to Shine
 To sit in on classes with Esther in her vibrant high school where, between classes, the central corridor, called Main Street, is a bustling social hub, is to see why these students are genuinely excited about school. 
 Their teachers are pushing them to wrestle with big questions: What is truth? What does Virgil's ''Aeneid'' tell us about destiny and individual happiness? How does DNA work? How is the global economy reshaping the world (subtext: you have to be fluid and highly educated to survive in the new economy)? 
 Esther's ethics teacher, Joel Greifinger, spent considerable time this winter on moral theories. An examination of John Rawls's theory of justice led to extensive discussions about American society and class inequality. Among the reading material Mr. Greifinger presented was research showing the correlation between income and SAT scores. 
 The class strengthened Esther's earlier decision not to take private SAT prep. 
 In her honors philosophy/literature class, Esther has been reading Nietzsche, Kierkegaard, ''Sophie's Choice'' and Viktor Frankl's ''Man's Search for Meaning.'' Amid a discussion of the strangely unsettling emptiness Frankl encountered upon his release from a Nazi concentration camp, Esther quoted Sartre: ''You are condemned to freedom.'' 
 Her honors teacher, Mike Fieleke, nodded. ''That's the existential idea. If we don't awaken to that freedom, then we are slaves to our fate.'' 
 A few weeks earlier, Esther, taking stock of her own life, wrote in an e-mail message: ''I feel like I'm on the verge. I feel like I'm just about to get out of high school, to enter into adulthood, to reach some kind of state of independence and peacefulness and enlightenment.'' 
 More immediately, she wrote, Mr. Fieleke had told her ''he thought, from reading my papers and hearing me speak in class, that I was just on the verge of some really great idea.'' 
 ''I asked him if he thought that idea would come by next Wednesday, when our big Hamlet paper was due. He said I might feel this way all year long.'' 
 The most intensely pressurized academic force field at school is the one surrounding the students on the Advanced Placement and honors track. About 145 of the 500 seniors are taking a combined total of three, four and five Advanced Placement and honors classes, with a few students even juggling six and seven. 
 Esther's friend Colby takes four Advanced Placement and one honors class. ''I'm living up to my own expectations,'' Colby said. ''It's what I want to do. I want to do well for myself.'' 
 Another of Esther's friends, from student theater, Lee Gerstenhaber, 17, was juggling four Advanced Placement classes with intense late-night rehearsals for her starring role as Maggie, the seductive Southern belle in ''Cat on a Hot Tin Roof.'' It was too much. About 4 a.m one day last fall, she was still fighting her way through Advanced Placement physics homework. She dissolved in tears. 
 ''I had always been able to do it before,'' Lee recalled later. ''But I finally said to myself, 'O.K., I'm not Superwoman.' '' 
 She dropped physics -- and was incandescent as Maggie.
 Esther's schedule includes two Advanced Placement and one honors class. Among certain of her classmates who are mindful that many elite colleges advise prospective applicants to pursue the most rigorous possible course of study, taking two Advanced Placement classes is viewed as ''only two A.P.'s.'' But Esther says she is simply taking the subjects she is most interested in.
 She also shrugged off advice that it would look better on her resume to take another science class instead of her passion, A.P. Latin. Like so many of her classmates, Esther started taking Latin in the seventh grade, when everyone was saying Latin would help them with the SAT. But now, except for Esther and a handful of other diehards who are devoted to Latin -- and to their teacher, Robert Mitchell -- everyone else has moved on. 
 ''I like languages,'' said Esther, who also takes Advanced Placement Spanish. ''And I really like Latin.'' Who Needs a Boyfriend?
 This year Esther has been trying life without a boyfriend. It was her mother's idea. ''She'd say, 'I think it's time for you to take a break and discover who you are,' '' Esther said over lunch with Colby. ''She was right. I feel better.'' 
 Esther turned to Colby: she seems to pretty much always have a boyfriend. 
 ''I never felt like having a boyfriend was a burden,'' Colby said. ''I enjoy just being comfortable with someone, being able to spend time together. I don't think that means I wouldn't feel comfortable or confident without one.''
 Esther said: ''I'm not trying to say that's a bad thing. I'm like you. I never thought, 'If I don't have a boyfriend I'll feel totally forlorn and lost.' '' 
 But who needs a boyfriend? ''My girlfriends have consistently been more important than my boyfriends,'' Esther wrote in an e-mail message. ''I mean, girlfriends last longer.'' 
 Boyfriends or not, a deeper question for Esther and Colby is how they negotiate their identities as young women. They have grown up watching their mothers, and their friends' mothers, juggle family and career. They take it for granted that they will be able to carve out similar paths, even if it doesn't look easy from their vantage point.
 They say they want to be both feminine and assertive, like their mothers. But Colby made the point at lunch that she would rather be considered too assertive and less conventionally feminine than ''be totally passive and a bystander in my life.''
 Esther agreed. She said she admired Cristina, the spunky resident on ''Grey's Anatomy,'' one of her favorite TV shows. 
 ''She really stands up for herself and knows who she is, which I aspire to,'' Esther said. 
 Cristina is also ''gorgeous,'' Esther laughed. ''And when she's taking off her scrubs, she's always wearing cute lingerie.'' 
 Speaking of lingerie, part of being feminine is feeling good about how you look. Esther is not trying to be one of Newton North's trendsetters, the girls who show up every day in Ugg boots, designer jeans -- or equally cool jeans from the vintage store -- and tight-fitting tank tops under the latest North Face jacket. 
 She never looks ''scrubby,'' to use the slang for being a slob, but sometimes comes to school in sweats and moccasins. 
 ''I think sometimes I might be trying a little too hard not to conform,'' Esther says. 
 She says she is one of the few girls in her circle who doesn't have a credit card. But she is hardly immune to the pressure to be a good consumer. 
 During the discussion around the dining room table, Esther's mother expressed her astonishment over her daughter's expertise in designer jeans. They had been people-watching at the mall. Esther, as it turned out, knew the brand of every pair of jeans that went by. 
 So what were the coolest jeans at Newton North? 
 ''The coolest jeans are True Religions,'' Esther said. 
 ''They look,'' she said, and here she smiled sheepishly as she stood up to reveal her denim-clad legs, ''like these.''
 Aliza and several of Esther's other friends chipped in to buy them for her 17th birthday, in November.Encouraged to Ease Up a Little
 The amazing boys say they admire girls like Esther and Colby. 
 ''I hate it when girls dumb themselves down,'' Gabe Gladstone, the co-captain of mock trial, was saying one morning to the other captain, Cameron Ferrey. 
 Cameron said he felt the same way. 
 One of Esther's close friends is Dan Catomeris, a school theater star. ''One of the most attractive things about Esther is how smart she is,'' said Dan, whose mother is a professor at Harvard Business School. ''There's always been this intellectual tension between us. I see why she likes Kierkegaard -- he's existential, but still Christian. She really likes Descartes. I was not so into Descartes. I really like Hume, Nietzsche, the existentialist authors. The musician we're most collectively into is Bob Dylan.'' 
 Sometimes, though, everybody wants some of these hard-charging girls to chill out. Tom DePeter, an Advanced Placement English teacher, wants his students to loosen up so they can write original sentences. The theater director, Adam Brown, wants the girls to ''let go'' in auditions. 
 Peter Martin, the girls' cross-country coach, says girls try so hard to please everyone -- coaches, teachers, parents -- that he bends over backward not to criticize them. ''I tell them, 'Just go out and run.' '' His team wins consistently. 
 But how do you chill out and still get into a highly selective college?
 One of Esther's favorite rituals is to hang out at her house with Aliza, eating Ben and Jerry's and watching a DVD of a favorite program like ''The Office.'' Their friendship helped Esther and Aliza keep going last fall, when there was hardly time to hang out. Esther recalled in an e-mail message how one night she had telephoned Aliza, who is also a top student, and a cross-country team captain, to say she was feeling overwhelmed.
 ''I said, 'Aliza, this is crazy, I have so much homework to do, and I won't be able to relax until I do it all. I haven't gone out in weeks!' And Aliza (who had also been staying in on Fridays and Saturdays to do homework) pointed out: 'I'd rather get into college.' '' 
 By Dec. 15, Newton North was in a frenzy over early admissions answers. Esther's friend Phoebe Gardener had been accepted to Dartmouth. Her friend Dan Lurie was in at Brown. Harvard wanted Dan Catomeris. 
 Esther was in calculus class, the last period of the day when her cellphone rang. It was her father. The letter from Williams College -- her ideal of the small, liberal arts school -- had arrived. 
 Her father would be at her brother's basketball game when she got home. Her mother would still be at the office. Esther did not want to be alone when she opened the letter. 
 ''Dad, can you bring it to school?'' she asked.
 Ten minutes later, when her father arrived, Esther realized that he had somehow not registered the devastating thinness of the envelope. The admissions office was sorry. Williams had had a record number of highly qualified applicants for early admission this year. Esther had been rejected. Not deferred. Rejected.
 Her father hugged her as she cried outside her classroom, and then he drove her home. 
 Esther said several days later: ''Maybe it hurt me that I wasn't an athlete.''
 But she was already moving on. ''I chose Williams,'' she said, with a shrug. ''They didn't choose me back.'' 
 About that thin envelope: Mr. Mobley, unschooled in such intricacies, said he hadn't paid much attention to it. He had wanted so much for his daughter to get into Williams, he said, and believed so strongly in her, that it was as if he had wished the letter into being an acceptance. 
 ''It was a setback,'' Mr. Mobley said weeks later. ''But it's not a failure.'' And Then One Day, a Letter Arrives
 Has this all been a temporary insanity? 
 Esther's friend Colby learned in February that she had been accepted at the University of Southern California. Soon, more letters of acceptance rolled in: from the University of Miami, the University of Texas at Austin, Tulane. With the college-application pressure behind her, she can go back to being the pragmatic romantic who opened her journal last August and wrote her ''life list,'' with 35 goals and dreams, in pink ink. 
 She wants: To write a novel. Own a (red) Jeep Wrangler. Get into college. Name her firstborn daughter Carmen. Go to carnival in Rio de Janeiro. Learn to surf. Live in a Spanish-speaking country. Learn to play the doppio movimiento of Chopin's Sonata in B Flat. Own a dog. Be a bridesmaid. Vote for president. Write a really good poem. Never get divorced. 
 In mid-January Esther was thrilled to receive an acceptance letter from Centre College, one of her fallback schools, in Kentucky. But she was still dreaming about her remaining top choices: Amherst, Middlebury, Davidson and Smith, her mother's alma mater.
 Esther's application to Smith included a letter from her father. He wrote about how, when Esther was a baby, they had gone to his wife's 10th college reunion. He described the alumni parade as an ''angelic procession of women in white, decade by decade, at every stage in the course of human life.'' 
 He wrote about seeing the young women, the middle-aged graduates and, finally, ''the elderly women, some with the assistance of canes and wheelchairs, but with no diminution of the confidence that a great education brings.'' 
 ''I still remember holding Esther as we watched those saints go marching into the central campus for the commencement ceremony,'' he wrote. 
 ''Lord,'' he concluded, and he could have been talking about any of the schools his daughter still has her heart set on, ''I want Esther to be in that number.''
 Epilogue: Esther learned last week that she had gotten into Smith. She learned on Saturday that she had been rejected by Amherst and Middlebury. She is still hoping for Davidson.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 3, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Sunday about the experiences of high-achieving high school girls in Newton, Mass., misstated a verb property of Latin, which one of the girls in the article studies. It is the subjunctive mood; there is no subjunctive ''tense.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: In an honors philosophy/literature class, Esther Mobley, center, participates in a discussion of ''Man's Search for Meaning.'' (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
ESTHER MOBLEY
At Newton North High School in Newton, Mass., a Wonder Woman mural offers a role model to some girls. Newton North, one of the best public high schools in the country, gears its teaching toward a wide range of students. (Photographs by RUTH FREMSON/The New York Times)(pg. 24)
COLBY KENNEDY
KAT JIANG
 JULIE MHLABA (pg. 25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); THEATER (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (74%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); WRITERS (60%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%) Education and Schools; Women; Colleges and Universities; Education and Schools

PERSON: Sara Rimer

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



23 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Churches Look South for a 'Green' Palm Sunday

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

DATELINE: SIERRA MORENA, Mexico, March 29 

 BODY:
Clutching a tiny knife in his big calloused hands, Laizon Corzo wound his way through the thick foliage in one of southern Mexico's forested areas in search of living treasures. 
 When he found them -- big, leafy palm fronds -- he did not cut right away. Instead, he inspected the leaves, back and front, for stains and other imperfections. ''This one, no,'' he said, pushing aside one and grabbing another. ''This one -- see how perfect it is?''
Mr. Corzo is one of the indigenous farmers who puts palms in the hands of North American churchgoers on Palm Sunday, the Sunday before Easter. He is also on the cutting edge of a new movement to harvest what are being called ''eco-palms.'' 
 Slightly more expensive than the average palm, eco-palms are the rage in churches across the United States because of the social and environmental benefits they represent. They are collected in a way that helps preserve the forest, and more of the sale price ends up in the pockets of the people who cut them. 
 ''We want to be a green congregation,'' said the Rev. David C. Parsons, pastor of St. John-St. Matthew-Emanuel Lutheran Church in Brooklyn, which purchased eco-palms for the second straight year. ''We are conscious of our footprint on the earth. There is a biblical mandate to do that.''
 Now operating in a handful of palm-producing areas in southern Mexico and northern Guatemala, the eco-palm project is similar to programs for certified coffee, chocolate or diamonds. But the consumers in this case are churches, and many say that the religious significance of the plant compels them to buy the most wholesome palm possible. 
 ''Jesus' entrance into Jerusalem was accented by the jubilant waving of palm branches,'' Lutheran World Relief, one of the groups endorsing the project, says on its Web site. ''Unfortunately, for the communities where these palms are harvested, palm fronds do not always represent the same jubilation they do for us.'' 
 Mr. Corzo, 37, a father of three who has been harvesting palm leaves since he was 5 or 6, used to be paid by how many he delivered, no matter the quality. He would hack away at any old palm and allow the middle man to worry about quality. 
 No more. Under the eco-palm program, Mr. Corzo is paid only for the quality fronds that he delivers -- but at a much higher return, so his trifling pay has nearly doubled. The palms are now bundled in his village by women who had no jobs before. 
 The percentage of palms that must be discarded has plummeted from roughly half to a tenth. And the forest that Mr. Corzo uses to make a living is slowly becoming greener, environmentalists say. 
 The program began in 2005 with 20 American churches that bought about 5,000 palms. It grew last year, with 281 congregations placing orders for 80,000 palms. On this Palm Sunday, 1,436 churches will distribute 364,000 eco-palm stems. 
 That still represents just about 1 percent of the palms that are purchased for Palm Sunday, the day when the most palms are used; American churches use 25 million to 35 million palms, say officials involved in the project. 
 Lutheran churches are the biggest buyers, followed by Presbyterians. Smaller numbers of Roman Catholic, Episcopal, Methodist, Church of Christ and Mennonite congregations also ordered eco-palms this year.
 The palms harvested in southern Mexico have shorter leaves than the ones many churches have used, resulting in some consternation in the pews. ''Parishioners can't fold these leaves into crosses, and that's been a tradition,'' Pastor Parsons said. ''It's something parents have passed on to their children, and it's an adjustment to have these new palms.''
 The project grew out of the North American Free Trade Agreement, which has come under far more criticism than praise for its effect on the environment. One of the pact's side agreements set up the North American Commission for Environmental Cooperation to promote environmentally friendly trade policies. As it sifted through the products that are sent from Mexico to the north, the commission discovered palms.
 Dean A. Current, a professor of natural resources management at the University of Minnesota, was called in to study the economics of the palm industry. He discovered that about 10 percent of the palms sent to the United States were bought by churches. The rest go to florists, who often use them in arrangements for weddings and funerals.
 In surveying churches, Mr. Current found that most were willing to pay up to double the going price to be sure their palms were responsibly harvested. A big church might spend as much as $1,500 on palms for Palm Sunday. 
 Sometimes, they are burned for the next year's Ash Wednesday, although that practice is being cast aside by some congregations because of concerns that it pollutes the air. 
 ''Churches want to help,'' Mr. Current said. ''Before this, they really didn't know where their palms came from.''
 Now many of them do. Mr. Current has brought small groups of church leaders here to Sierra Morena, a village of about 50 families in the southern highlands of Chiapas State, to see for themselves.
 Environmental groups in Mexico and Guatemala have trained palm cutters to cut good fronds while allowing the palm plants to survive. That keeps the income flowing and maintains the habitats of birds and other species. 
 Those who harvest the palms are also coffee and corn farmers. Palms help make ends meet.
 But exactly what they are used for up north is not always clear.
 ''I know it's used for decoration,'' said Moses Macal Maroukin, 69, a veteran palm chopper, who seemed somewhat mystified. He said he had no palm fronds in his home. 
 But then he revealed what the people here had long believed to be the real use of the exported palms. The juices in the stems and leaves are extracted, he explained in a conspiratorial whisper, and then turned into a special mixture that is used to stain greenbacks green. 
 ''This is how you color your dollars,'' he said, waving a palm.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Yaneth Perez inspected Mexican palms bound for florists last week. The ''eco-palms'' sought by many United States churches are harvested and bought in a way to benefit farmers economically and environmentally.
 Laizon Corzo is now paid only for quality palms, and earns much more than when he cut indiscriminately. (Photographs by Jennifer Szymaszek for The New York Times) Map of Mexico highlighting Sierra Morena: American church leaders have visited Sierra Morena's farmers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EASTER SEASON (92%); RELIGION (92%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (88%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (73%); WEB SITES (50%) Easter and Holy Week; Trees and Shrubs; Palm Trees; Forests and Forestry; Easter and Holy Week

PERSON: Marc Lacey

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); GUATEMALA (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Mexico; Guatemala

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



24 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Jobs at Risk After Scandal at Juvenile Facility

BYLINE: By BARBARA NOVOVITCH

DATELINE: PYOTE, Tex., March 29 

 BODY:
To most Texans, the West Texas State School here is the troubled institution at the center of a sexual abuse scandal that has shaken the state's juvenile detention system.
 But to the residents of this town of 129 and the neighboring communities, it is a source of badly needed jobs.
That is why about 200 people gathered outside the county courthouse in Monahans on Tuesday to oppose a state auditor's recommendation to close the school, and why nine residents made the 750-mile round trip drive to Austin this week to address legislators on the matter. 
 ''This facility has been a part of the community since 1965,'' said Donna Garcia, community relations coordinator at the school. ''It feels like a personal vendetta against this community. We feel like the Legislature needs somebody to blame this on.''
 In February, news accounts reported that from 2003 to 2005 two officials at West Texas State had had late-night sexual encounters with incarcerated boys and then were allowed to resign without facing criminal charges. Responding to the disclosure, and to pressure from the Legislature, Gov. Rick Perry forced the resignation of the Texas Youth Commission board and ordered a review of all of its facilities.
 The agency is currently investigating 1,200 complaints against juvenile facilities around the state.
 ''Obviously, we're outraged at the kind of things that are alleged,'' Judge Greg Holly of the Ward County Court said Thursday, after returning from Austin, where he addressed a legislative hearing. ''Obviously the folks accused are not Ward County people. It sickens us, it bothers us -- but local folks ought not to be punished.''
 The schools superintendent of Monahans, Keith Richardson, said closing West Texas State, which employs 228 people, could mean the loss of 60 students in Monahans schools because their parents would have to move if they lost their jobs there.
 Mayor David Cutbirth of Monahans said the job loss would damage the area's economic diversity, which is tied to oil and gas production.
 ''Drilling jobs can pay up to $28 per hour, but they're mostly for men,'' he said. West Texas State offers jobs for clerical workers, teachers, counselors and men ''with special training.'' 
 Pyote now houses 238 offenders ages 12 to 20, with most ages 15 to 17, said a Texas Youth Commission spokesman, Jim Hurley.
 When a reporter visited the facility, groups of young men clad in orange or blue marched in drill formation from the cafeteria to classrooms. The youngsters wear uniforms to signify their phase of ''resocialization,'' Mr. Hurley said. He said the youngsters' days were structured: ''They go to school, to therapy groups, behavior groups, meals, exercise and recreation, physical training, and a hour of free time in the evenings. They are up at 5 a.m. and in bed at 9 p.m.''
 Nearly 4,000 youthful offenders are being held in 36 Texas Youth Commission facilities. 
 A Ward County grand jury will meet on April 10 to consider the accusations against the former officials of West Texas State who, according to a Texas Ranger investigation, ''engaged in sexual contact with several students.''
 In recommending the closing of West Texas State, the auditor cited Pyote's remote location, its sparse labor force and its distance from medical facilities.
 Judge Holly said he understood that all but 10 percent of the jobs at the Pyote facility were filled, ''while some other Texas Youth Commission facilities have 20 to 30 percent openings.'' He pointed out that Odessa, with several hospitals, is just 40 miles away on Interstate 20. ''In time, that's as close as any metropolitan area prisons,'' he said. 
 Sixty percent of West Texas State counselors and teachers drive the 15 miles from Monahans (population 6,700 with an additional 2,000 outside city limits), and 40 percent from Pecos (population 9,000), 26 miles to the west, Mayor Cutbirth said. 
 Bob Siekman, a former teacher and a retired contractor, said that he lived next door to West Texas State and that he considered the detention center a good neighbor. Mr. Siekman blamed ''the muckety-mucks, the higher-ups'' for any misconduct there. 
 But he was more interested in pointing out that Pyote has a museum, open on weekends, devoted to the town's earlier fame as the World War II ''Rattlesnake Bomber'' Air Force base, which in 1952 was temporarily home to the B-29 Enola Gay, which had dropped the atomic bomb on Hiroshima. 
 ''I climbed all over the Enola Gay when I was a kid,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The West Texas State School opened in Pyote in 1965. A state auditor has recommended that it be closed. (Photos by Alicia Caldwell/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUVENILE JUSTICE (92%); SCANDALS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); PRISONS (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); SEX SCANDALS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); CHILDREN (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); CHILD ABUSE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); DISMISSALS (77%); COMMUNITY RELATIONS (74%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); LITIGATION (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); LAYOFFS (67%); RIOTS (66%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (61%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (61%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (61%) Prisons and Prisoners; Child Abuse and Neglect; Labor; Sex Crimes; Demonstrations and Riots; Shutdowns (Institutional)

ORGANIZATION: West Texas State School (Pyote, Tex)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (58%) Barbara Novovitch

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Pyote (Tex); Monahans (Tex)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



25 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; N.C.A.A. TOURNAMENT; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: For L.S.U.'s Starkey, Interim Coach Sounds Fine

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN

DATELINE: CLEVELAND, March 31 

 BODY:
As Louisiana State makes its fourth consecutive appearance in the women's Final Four, the interim coach Bob Starkey finds himself in the odd position of being undefeated and perhaps soon unemployed.
 The Lady Tigers (30-7) will face Rutgers in the national semifinals on Sunday, guided by Starkey's assured presence during a tumultuous month since Pokey Chatman resigned as head coach amid charges that she had inappropriate relationships with more than one former player.
 Yet even if L.S.U. wins its first national title on Tuesday, Starkey, 47, is likely to be a head coach with the life span of a mayfly. He has said repeatedly that he has no interest in replacing Chatman full time, and is fond of quoting Clint Eastwood's Dirty Harry character in saying, ''A man's got to know his limitations.''
 For 17 years at L.S.U., first as an assistant coach with the men's team and for nine seasons with the women's team, the bespectacled Starkey has been more comfortable in the background, scouting, devising game plans, carrying a clipboard, preferring the invisibility of practice to the spotlight of the postgame news conference. 
 He says he would love to stay at L.S.U. as an assistant, but understands that a new coach must be free to choose his or her own staff. What about remaining as head coach? Absolutely no interest, he said. Recruiting is not one of his skills, Starkey freely admits. Nor does he relish the other chores of being in charge -- speaking to reporters, fund-raising and administrative work.
 ''Sometimes, being a head coach, you don't get to coach a lot,'' Starkey said.
 Such a job would also likely mean more time away from his wife, Sherie Hayslett, who has multiple sclerosis. In an age when million-dollar salaries are paid at top women's programs like Tennessee and Connecticut, and coaches of men's and women's teams can sometimes be preening peacocks, Starkey is content being a bag-lunch bureaucrat.
 ''He's one of those guys that doesn't want to draw attention to himself,'' said Don Meyer, one of Starkey's friends and the men's basketball coach at Northern State University in Aberdeen, S.D. ''There's not too many out there anymore.''
 Yet, in the coming days, Starkey has a chance as interim coach to do what Steve Fisher did with the Michigan men's team in 1989: assume control of a skilled, determined team before the N.C.A.A. tournament and win a national championship.
 Sean O'Keefe, L.S.U.'s chancellor, said Starkey had done ''an astonishing job'' with the ability to ''keep your head when others around you can't.''
 Whether he will keep his assistant's job, though, remains uncertain.
 The matter will be addressed after the season, O'Keefe said, adding that ''there are so many permutations and options to consider.''
 Since 1990, Starkey has been hiding in plain sight at L.S.U. as an assistant, helping to cultivate such talent as Shaquille O'Neal and Seimone Augustus, the two-time women's national player of the year. How has the man who has written a book called ''The Art of Being an Assistant Coach'' thrived as interim head coach? By essentially not changing a thing.
 When Starkey took over, he received some straightforward, if not grammatically correct, advice from his coaching friend Meyer: ''Be what you is, because if you be what you ain't, you ain't what you is.'' 
 While Chatman rode motorcycles and coached with foot-stamping emotion, Starkey was the sober assistant whom she frequently consulted during timeouts before addressing her team and deciding which play to run or defense to call. 
 ''They've got a lot of kids that have been to the Final Four,'' said Geno Auriemma, the coach at Connecticut, which L.S.U. routed by 73-50 last Monday to reach the Final Four. ''They know how to get there. The coaching staff did a lot of coaching before, so it's not like they're getting bad coaching all of a sudden. I'm not surprised at all.''
 More than anything, players must be reassured about a new coach's basketball knowledge, said C. Vivian Stringer, the coach at Rutgers, L.S.U.'s opponent in the semifinals.
 ''It's a good thing he is an X-and-O person because I believe if you're not technically sound, players will soon expose you and they don't have any respect,'' Stringer said of Starkey in a telephone conference call. ''They have to know that you know the game.''
 A native of West Virginia, Starkey possesses a watchmaker's precision and obsession with a team's timing and internal gears. He has continued to refine a defense, anchored by the 6-foot-6 center Sylvia Fowles, that is the nation's most penurious; and to hone a motion offense that is exquisitely balanced between jump hooks from Fowles and 3-point launchings from the perimeter.
 ''Coach Starkey has done a great job,'' Fowles said. ''It says a lot about our system.''
 He has also used a couple of motivational tricks. Last Sunday, the day before L.S.U. upset UConn, Starkey cut a net into pieces and handed strands to his players.
 ''A loaner,'' he called the pieces, until the players could cut down the nets themselves with a victory over the Huskies.
 According to O'Keefe, L.S.U.'s chancellor, Starkey has also shown the team clips of the movie ''Apollo 13,'' the lunar mission during which looming disaster was averted by the resourcefulness of the space crew and ground technicians, who grew convinced that the crisis could become NASA's ''finest hour.''
 ''They've inspired me far more than I've inspired them,'' Starkey said of his players in a typically self-effacing remark.
 He has not spoken to Chatman since she resigned, Starkey said. Asked if he felt betrayed by her, Starkey said, ''Good question, but I don't think I care to comment.'' 
 He said he supported Carla Berry, the L.S.U. assistant who made the charges of inappropriate behavior against Chatman and who has declined to comment. ''It was courageous,'' Starkey said. ''I think she did the right thing.''
 Beyond Sunday's game against Rutgers, the future of Starkey's career remains unknown. He would ''never say never'' to a head coaching job at another university, Starkey said on a telephone conference call the other day, but he would rather stay put as an assistant coach.
 In the meantime, if Starkey is losing sleep, given his newfound duties as an interim head coach, he said it beat the alternative. ''You could be getting a lot of rest and watching games on TV,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bob Starkey with his players after they won the Fresno Regional last week. Louisiana State is appearing in its fourth straight women's Final Four. (Photo by Rich Pedroncelli/Associated Press)
 Starkey with his assistant Carla Berry. Starkey took over when Pokey Chatman resigned amid charges of inappropriate behavior. (Photo by Matt Slocum/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (84%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); WOMEN (73%); FUNDRAISING (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (50%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (50%) Basketball; Coaches and Managers; Ncaa Basketball Tournament

ORGANIZATION: LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (94%) Louisiana State University

PERSON: CLINT EASTWOOD (53%) Jere Longman; Bob Starke|

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (90%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



26 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; N.C.A.A. TOURNAMENT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: Larger Than Life but Far From a Lifer, McGuire Won the Title and Walked Away

BYLINE: BY RAY GLIER

DATELINE: ATLANTA, March 30 

 BODY:
His players understood how Al McGuire could retire when he was 48 and had just won a national championship. He preached about how they should stretch themselves and how life was a basketball court and they should go right or left and never stay stuck in the middle.
 McGuire, who was 72 when he died of leukemia in 2001, would suggest to his players that they spend six months bartending and six months driving a cab after graduation. They would be better prepared for life, he said. 
''Once you got to know Al, you could understand how he could walk away and not sign the next contract after the championship,'' Butch Lee, the star guard on the 1977 Marquette team, said in a telephone interview Friday from Puerto Rico. ''He would tell us, when you feel confident in yourself, you can move around. Staying still was a problem, not only in basketball, but in life.
 ''At that age, you should be just getting the job you want. He was looking for something else in life.''
 Thirty years ago, McGuire sat on the bench at the Omni in downtown Atlanta, buried his head in his hands and cried after Marquette defeated North Carolina to win the national title. It was his last game as a coach because he had already agreed to take a job as a co-chairman with Medalist, a Wisconsin-based sporting goods manufacturer.
 Ben Howland, the coach of the U.C.L.A. team that is here in the Final Four, is 49, a year older than McGuire was when his team won the title. If the Bruins were to win a national championship Monday, it would be preposterous to think that Howland would consider retirement. His contract would probably be torn up and replaced by a new deal with a considerably higher salary.
 The same goes for Florida Coach Billy Donovan, 41. If the Gators were to win their second consecutive title, Florida would have to increase his $1.8 million salary or risk losing him to Kentucky, which is reportedly planning to pursue him as its new coach.
 ''Times have changed economically,'' Jim Calhoun, the longtime coach at Connecticut, said. ''When Al walked away, Medalist could pay him at least equal to or close to what he was getting at Marquette. I can't picture somebody 48 today walking away from a lucrative position.''
 Hank Raymonds, who followed McGuire as the Marquette basketball coach and athletic director, said that McGuire's goal was to be the first coach to make $100,000 a year. Raymonds said he was not sure how much McGuire made when he retired, but he was almost sure he never reached that figure.
 McGuire stayed with Medalist for two years, then resigned to focus on being a college basketball analyst, first for NBC and then for CBS. 
 Today, a coach usually remains a coach until he is ready to retire, especially if he is as successful as McGuire, who was hired by Marquette in 1964 and compiled a 295-80 record. He had one losing season, his first at Marquette, and won a National Invitation Tournament title as well as an N.C.A.A. championship.
 ''He wanted four careers,'' Al McGuire Jr. said Friday in a telephone interview. ''He was a bartender, a businessman, a coach and a broadcaster, so he got all four. He said he didn't want to spend the rest of his life running around with guys in short pants, and that there had to be something else.
 ''He said if he knew he was going to win the N.C.A.A. championship, he would not have left. He would have stayed one more year so he could defend his title.''
 Today, coaches who win a championship usually sign another deal to stay for longer than one year. In fact, Tennessee's Bruce Pearl merely turned a mediocre program around and received a six-year deal.
 Walking away from a pile of money is not all that made McGuire different from today's coaches.
 ''He would have been his own agent, his own P.R. man,'' Raymonds said. ''He would have done his own negotiating.''
 Rick Barnes, 52, the coach at Texas, said that McGuire once came to Midnight Madness, the first practice of a season, while Barnes was the coach at Providence. Barnes, like many coaches who met McGuire, asked him why he quit at such a young age.
 ''He told me he got to where he wanted to go,'' Barnes said this week at the National Association of Basketball Coaches convention at the Georgia World Congress Center.
 Barnes said that he could not envision fleeing the profession after reaching the pinnacle, and not strictly because of the money.
 ''I enjoy coaching and being in the gym too much,'' Barnes said. ''I would quit if I didn't enjoy being around players.''
 Bobby Cremins, the coach at the College of Charleston and a former coach at Georgia Tech, became a close friend of McGuire's because both played for Frank McGuire, no relation to Al, who coached Al at St. John's and Cremins at South Carolina.
 ''He was a rare bird, eccentric,'' Cremins said of Al McGuire. ''I think that championship was an unlikely national championship. I asked him once about leaving, and he looked me in the eye and said he would have stayed and capitalized on that national championship.''
 McGuire, however, had agreed to leave for Medalist.
 Lefty Driesell, 75, the former Maryland coach, was riding down an escalator at the coaches convention Friday and smiled when asked how McGuire would fit in as a coach today.
 ''He was always smarter than the rest of us,'' Driesell said. ''We weren't making any money back then as coaches, but Al was going out to make money after he won that championship.''
 McGuire did get some nice paydays, first from Medalist, then from the networks, but also as a motivational speaker. It was not just his X's and O's that made him a financial success.
 ''When I went to Marquette, I didn't realize Al was the character he was,'' Butch Lee said. ''I got there and he reminded me a little bit of Detective Columbo from the TV series; you just never knew what was going on in that head of his.
 ''He was like a poker player; on the outside, he didn't send you the message that you could interpret him. He was a genius at work.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Al McGuire, with help from guard Butch Lee, led Marquette to the title in 1977, then took a job in business and later in broadcasting. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (78%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); TOURNAMENTS (73%); LEUKEMIA (71%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (70%) Basketball; Ncaa Basketball Tournament; Coaches and Managers; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: MARQUETTE UNIVERSITY (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (54%) Marquette University

PERSON: Ray Glier; Al Mcguire

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



27 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DataBank; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 202 words

HEADLINE: Bernanke Speaks, and the Market Retreats

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
The stock market dropped last week on Congressional testimony of Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, on Wednesday. 
 Mr. Bernanke told Congress that the Fed still considered inflation to be its primary concern -- a remark that dampened expectations on Wall Street that the Fed might lower short-term interest rates soon. 
On Friday, an announcement by the Commerce Department set back the market further. The department said that the United States would impose duties on some Chinese imports to compensate for export subsidies. The penalties now apply only to imports of coated paper, but could have broader implications. Until now, such subsidies have not been deemed grounds for imposing duties on products from a nonmarket economy -- the designation given by the United States government to China. 
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average lost 126.66 points, or 1.01 percent, to close at 12,354.35. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 15.25 points, or 1.06 percent, to close at 1,420.86. The Nasdaq composite index lost 27.29 points, or 1.11 percent, to close at 2,421.64. The yield on the 10-year Treasury bond rose to 4.65 percent from 4.61 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.H.B. FullerNYSE: FULThe chemical company said that its first-quarter net income rose 36 percent, to $20.8 million, or 34 cents a share, from $15.3 million, or 26 cents a share, in the year-earlier period. It said revenue rose 5.6 percent. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $27.27WEEK'S CHANGE: +3.85%EST. '07 P/E: 16.37Beazer Homes USANYSE: BZHThe home builder said that it had received a grand jury subpoena from a United States attorney's office seeking documents relating to its mortgage business. The firm said it is cooperating with the investigation.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $29.03WEEK'S CHANGE: -12.46%EST. '07 P/E: -- Take-TwoInteractive SoftwareNNM: TTWOShareholders owning 46 percent of the company's stock succeeded in removing the entire board, replacing it with six new members. The company publishes the Grand Theft Auto video game series. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $20.14WEEK'S CHANGE: -12.63%EST. '07 P/E: 66.03CBRL GroupNNM: CBRLThe company said March same-store sales for its Cracker Barrel Old Country Store restaurants fell 1 percent from year-earlier levels. It said that same-store sales for the company's gift shops declined 0.3 percent. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $46.30WEEK'S CHANGE: -8.08%EST. '07 P/E: 18.29NapsterNNM: NAPSNapster and AT&T said that they had entered an agreement to offer cellphone subscribers free unlimited access to more than three million digital song tracks for one year. Financial terms of the deal were not disclosed. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $4.14WEEK'S CHANGE: +8.38%EST. '07 P/E: -- United States SteelNYSE: XThe company said that it had reached an agreement to buy Lone Star Technologies, a maker of welded pipe used in oil fields, in a $2.1 billion cash deal that would make it North America's largest producer of tubular steel. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $99.17WEEK'S CHANGE: +2.97%EST. '07 P/E: 10.63Circuit City StoresNYSE: CCThe consumer electronics retailer said that it would cut costs by laying off about 3,400 retail workers and hiring lower-paid employees to replace them. It is also trimming about 130 corporate information-technology jobs. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $18.53WEEK'S CHANGE: -1.33%EST. '07 P/E: 28.86TribuneNYSE: TRBTwo Los Angeles billionaires, Ronald W. Burkle and Eli Broad, put in a bid for the owner of The Los Angeles Times, The Chicago Tribune and Newsday, topping an offer from Sam Zell, a Chicago real estate magnate. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $32.11WEEK'S CHANGE: +5.18%EST. '07 P/E: 16.08(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BONDS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); TESTIMONY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); EXPORT PROMOTION (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (59%); INTEREST RATES (56%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (91%); SAMUEL ZELL (79%); ELI BROAD (59%); RON BURKLE (58%) Jeff Sommer

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



28 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: INVESTING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1396 words

HEADLINE: Interest-Rate Roulette: A Game of Many Dangers

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
WHEN it comes to interest rates, some investors seem to think that they can have their cake and eat it, too. They want rate cuts -- and they want a vibrant economy this year.
 But a growing chorus of Wall Street strategists is warning that it is extremely unlikely that both will occur. So the strategists are advising investors to proceed with caution on both the equity and the fixed-income sides of their portfolios.
To be sure, the bond markets have already priced in a rate cut of 0.50 percent by year-end, and it seems that stock investors are counting on rate cuts, too. Lately, stocks have rallied whenever investors have believed that the Federal Reserve may cut interest rates, and fallen back whenever they have worried that it won't.
 That pattern has come to the fore in recent weeks. On Wednesday, for example, when the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, testified before both houses of Congress, the stock market fell sharply. 
 In response to questions about the Fed's intentions, Mr. Bernanke stressed that inflation remained the Fed's chief concern. That evidently disappointed investors, who had sent stocks soaring the previous week on the apparent assumption that the Fed was moving closer to cutting interest rates. 
 David Greenlaw, the chief United States fixed-income economist at Morgan Stanley, said investors should avoid a ''knee-jerk response'' to Fed statements.
 ''We're getting a bit closer to the point where a rate cut becomes a legitimate possibility, but I don't think we're there yet,'' he said. 
 He predicted that core inflation -- which excludes volatile energy and food prices -- could ease somewhat later this year, but that rising food prices might keep the broader measure of inflation above the Fed's comfort zone. He said that would make it hard for the Fed to cut rates.
 On the brighter side, Mr. Greenlaw said, cuts may not even be necessary. He says he foresees stronger domestic growth in the second half of the year because he thinks that ''the powerful headwind'' from sluggish residential construction will abate. Residential construction has been in such a decline since the second quarter of 2006 that it has trimmed about 1 percent from overall economic growth over the last 12 months, Mr. Greenlaw said, but he expects the homebuilding industry to stabilize later this year.
 Over all, he estimated, the economy will grow about 2 percent, annualized, in the first two quarters this year; and 3 percent, annualized, in the last two quarters.
 If the Fed does not cut rates this year, he said, then bonds are now too expensive. On the other hand, he said, if the Fed does cut rates, two-year Treasury bonds will probably benefit more than longer-term ones. 
 John T. Donohue, the chief investment officer in the fixed-income group at JPMorgan Asset Management, is also optimistic that the domestic economy will perk up later this year. ''Clearly, the biggest question mark is the housing market,'' he said. ''We all know that the subprime market is in dire straits, but that's still a small part of the mortgage market.'' He said that about 20 percent of mortgages last year were made to borrowers with shaky credit -- loans that are generally referred to as subprime.
 But despite the tremors in the housing market, Mr. Donohue said he thought that the Fed would have the latitude to cut rates only if unemployment rose closer to 5 percent from its current 4.5 percent. ''We essentially have full employment now, and the consumer is holding up very well,'' he said.
 Mr. Donohue said two types of bonds could perform well in the current environment.
 First, he recommended Treasury inflation-protected securities or TIPS; the Treasury adjusts the bonds' principal based on changes in the Consumer Price Index. Mr. Donohue said TIPS could outperform ordinary Treasuries if the Fed cut interest rates while inflation was still a concern. ''In that case, the Fed would be tapping the growth accelerator,'' he said, ''which could create inflationary pressures down the road.'' 
 He also suggested buying foreign bonds, particularly those denominated in euros. He said that any interest rate cuts in the United States could further depress the dollar, which fell against many currencies last year. Individual investors might want to buy into a mutual fund that invests in European bonds but does so without hedging the currency risk. A bond fund's prospectus should indicate whether the fund manager is allowed to hedge currencies. 
 Henry H. McVey, the chief United States investment strategist at Morgan Stanley, also said that bonds were pricey now. He has long recommended that individual investors put 65 percent of their overall portfolio into stocks. But in January, he raised the recommended cash position to 10 percent from 5 percent, while reducing the bond allocation to 25 percent from 30 percent. ''We think that cash looks good relative to bonds now,'' he said.
 Financial stocks have often done well when the Fed cuts rates. But this time around, Mr. McVey said, he would be wary of financial stocks like those of regional banks, which could be sensitive to any fallout from the subprime mortgage debacle. On the other hand, he said, stockbrokers and investment managers could benefit from rate cuts.
 Standard & Poor's recommends an allocation of 60 percent stocks, 25 percent bonds and 15 percent cash. It predicts one rate cut of 0.25 percent this year. Sam Stovall, S.& P.'s chief investment strategist, said he would expect further rate cuts in 2008.
 Once the Fed does begin cutting rates, he predicted, the dollar will weaken, which would benefit large-capitalization stocks more than small caps. Many large American companies earn a substantial portion of their profits abroad.
 Mr. Stovall said industrial stocks tended to do well soon after the Fed begins cutting rates. For example, in the first six months after every initial rate cut since 1945, the industrial stocks within the S.& P. 500 outperformed the index as a whole 80 percent of the time. During those initial six months, the industrial stocks rose 17 percent, on average, while the index gained 10 percent.
 But Mr. Stovall did not recommend another sector that has typically fared well after rate cuts: companies that rely on consumer discretionary spending. These stocks have risen 18 percent, on average, in the first six months after an initial rate cut. But they have outperformed the stock index only half of the time. Moreover, he said, these stocks are expensive now. The consumer discretionary stocks in the S.& P. 500 have an average price-to-earnings ratio of 19.5, compared with 15 for the index as a whole.
 Richard Bernstein, the chief United States strategist at Merrill Lynch, said he thought that the Fed did not have the latitude to ''pre-emptively'' cut interest rates to ward off a slowdown in the economy. ''That would unleash unbridled credit creation,'' he said, ''because we are in a unique period of nonbank lending'' by private equity firms and hedge funds.
 ''If I am right, and the Fed's hands are tied, then investor expectations of what the Fed will do are going to fluctuate all year,'' he said. In that case, he recommended a handful of conservative investment strategies that generally work well in volatile markets.
 First, he said, investors should emphasize high-quality assets -- whether stocks or bonds -- from large issuers with good credit. Then, among domestic stocks, he favored conservative sectors like health care and consumer staples. Among foreign stocks, he said developed countries generally outperformed emerging markets during volatile periods. He also said that stocks with relatively high dividend yields can help cushion broad swings in the markets. He is also recommending a relatively high cash stake -- 20 percent -- for investors' portfolios now, along with 50 percent in equities and 30 percent in bonds. 
 He says that all of these conservative strategies should work well if the Fed does not cut rates this year, or if it cuts rates because the economy is sputtering seriously. But if the Fed cut rates to ward off an economic slowdown, he says, riskier assets around the globe will probably trump the conservative strategies he outlined.
 The Fed may be hesitant to cut rates, Mr. Bernstein said, partly ''because risk taking in the financial markets might go wild.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, told Congress this week that inflation was the Fed's main concern. In response, share prices dropped sharply. (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)Chart: ''Growth After Rate Cuts''Average sector performances for the six months after the Federal Reserve began cutting interest rates.S. & P. 500 SECTOR: Information technologyAVERAGE PERCENTAGE CHANGE: 20.7%S. & P. 500 SECTOR: Consumer discretionaryAVERAGE PERCENTAGE CHANGE: 18.3S. & P. 500 SECTOR: IndustrialsAVERAGE PERCENTAGE CHANGE: 16.9S. & P. 500 SECTOR: Consumer staplesAVERAGE PERCENTAGE CHANGE: 14.1S. & P. 500 SECTOR: S. & P. 500 Growth GroupAVERAGE PERCENTAGE CHANGE: 11.8S. & P. 500 SECTOR: EnergyAVERAGE PERCENTAGE CHANGE: 11.6S. & P. 500 SECTOR: Health careAVERAGE PERCENTAGE CHANGE: 11.1S. & P. 500 SECTOR: MaterialsAVERAGE PERCENTAGE CHANGE: 11.0S. & P. 500 SECTOR: FinancialAVERAGE PERCENTAGE CHANGE: 10.4S. & P. 500 SECTOR: S. & P. 500 Value GroupAVERAGE PERCENTAGE CHANGE: 7.7S. & P. 500 SECTOR: UtilitiesAVERAGE PERCENTAGE CHANGE: 7.3S. & P. 500 SECTOR: Telecommunications servicesAVERAGE PERCENTAGE CHANGE: 3.8For rate-cut periods from 1945 to 2001.(Source by Standard & Poor's) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (88%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%) Stocks and Bonds; United States Economy; Interest Rates; Credit

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (88%) J Alex Tarquinio

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



29 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 5227 words

HEADLINE: ? What's the One Thing Big Business and the Left Have in Common

BYLINE: By Jonathan Cohn. 
Jonathan Cohn is the author of ''Sick: The Untold Story of America's Health Care Crisis -- and the People Who Pay the Price,'' to be published next week. He is a senior editor at The New Republic and a senior fellow at Demos.

 BODY:
The struggle to establish universal health insurance, dormant for more than a decade, is back. Should it actually succeed over the next few years, historians may trace that triumph, at least in part, to a news conference on Capitol Hill -- and to a most unusual figure who participated in it. The event took place in early December, just after the Democrats won back control of Congress. Its sponsor was Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, who was unveiling what would become the first universal-coverage proposal of the new political alignment. The impending change in Congressional leadership lent the announcement greater significance than usual -- Wyden's proposal would actually get a hearing, for one thing. 
In many respects, the news conference seemed rather mundane. Universal health care has always been a liberal's cause, after all, and Wyden is one of the Senate's most liberal members, somebody who has long defined universal coverage primarily in terms of fairness and equal opportunity. Among those flanking Wyden onstage were other longtime advocates of universal coverage, including Andy Stern, president of the Service Employees International Union. He, too, paid homage to the traditional rationale, arguing that Wyden's plan ''sets down a moral test: Why doesn't every American have the right to the same health care as the president, the vice president, 535 members of Congress and three million federal workers?''
 One of the men alongside Wyden and Stern stood out, however, politically if not visually. He was Steve Burd, chairman and C.E.O. of Safeway supermarkets. Nobody has ever accused Burd of having a bleeding heart: a former management consultant with a graduate degree in economics, he became notorious two years earlier when he helped lead California grocers into battle with their labor unions over employee medical benefits. Burd insisted that the unions accept skimpier insurance to save his company money. In the four-month walkout that ensued, newspapers ran articles about checkout clerks defaulting on their cars and homes. Union supporters blasted Burd as ''evil'' and ''a rat.'' At one point, a group of clergy members marched on Burd's California estate, holding a prayer vigil and delivering a handwritten plea for him to compromise. He didn't. And eventually he won, forcing major concessions from the union. 
 Yet here was Burd in Washington, arm in arm with one of labor's most passionate leaders, endorsing a plan in which the government would guarantee affordable, high-quality insurance to every single American. ''Our nation is facing a crisis that requires immediate attention,'' Burd declared. ''Working together, business, labor, government, consumer groups and health-care providers can collectively solve this problem.'' And while the ''working together'' line had the feel of boilerplate, Burd meant it. In the year that Wyden took constructing his proposal, Burd was quietly advising him; eventually they or their staffs were conferring almost every week.
 When Burd wasn't working with Wyden, he was talking about health care with another audience: his fellow C.E.O.'s, whose support for universal coverage he was trying to secure. Soon that effort may also produce results. When I spoke to Burd recently at Safeway's headquarters in Pleasanton, Calif., just east of San Francisco Bay, he told me that within weeks he expects dozens of companies to join a nonprofit advocacy group he is organizing called the Coalition to Advance Health Care Reform. Burd declined to reveal their names or the exact number of corporations participating. He did say that they represent a broad swath of corporate America and that all will be known when the group goes public later this spring. Burd also confirmed that one of the coalition's officers in Washington will be the longtime Republican Party operative Ed Gillespie -- whose presence in an organization explicitly endorsing ''universal health coverage,'' as the coalition's founding principles do, would seem about as likely as the presence of George W. Bush himself, whose disdain for anything resembling ''government-run health care'' is a matter of public record.
 Is all of this indicative of a broader shift in the politics of health care? Perhaps. As health care has become more expensive and even middle-class Americans have become anxious that their hold on employer-sponsored coverage is precarious, politicians have been talking seriously again about making health insurance a birthright, just as it is in every other developed nation. Not long after Wyden unveiled his plan, former Senator John Edwards, who is running for president, offered a detailed universal-coverage proposal of his own. His chief rivals for the Democratic nomination, Senators Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama, have pledged to insure all Americans. Meanwhile, Mitt Romney of Massachusetts signed a statewide universal law last year before leaving the governor's office; his campaign for the Republican nomination now proclaims it his major policy achievement. Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, another Republican, has proposed a similar system for California. 
 But it is corporate America's interest that is most striking. For many years, the only business leaders openly calling for universal coverage were mavericks like Howard Schultz, the chairman of Starbucks, who has long preached the need for business to show greater social responsibility. The C.E.O.'s rallying to universal coverage now -- particularly in the last few months -- are acting not so much out of social solidarity as out of financial necessity, as the burden of financing workers' premiums has become ever more onerous.
 ''The refrain from business was, 'We can't afford to do universal health care,' '' says Wyden, whose plan calls for shifting responsibility for buying insurance from employers to individuals. ''Now the refrain is, 'We can't afford not to do it.' '' The Business Roundtable, one of Washington's most influential business lobbies, now endorses universal coverage, at least in broad principle. And probably no spectacle captured the spirit of the times more than a joint conference held in February by Andy Stern and a man he has spent much of the last few years attacking, Lee Scott, the C.E.O. of Wal-Mart. Together the two pronounced the need for universal coverage by 2012. 
 Of course, at that news conference, Scott didn't go into great detail about exactly what kind of universal health-care system he would like, just as the Business Roundtable shied away from specifics in its statement. And that's the rub. In the early phases of the last great debate about health-care reform, during the early 1990s, prominent business leaders sent out strikingly similar signals -- suggesting they were ready to embrace universal health care, for the same essential reasons they cite now. At one point, a coalition of business leaders put out a ''play or pay'' proposal that would have required corporations either to insure their workers or to pay into a common fund for the uninsured. But as President Clinton's health-care plan lost political momentum, the business community's support for universal health care faltered and, eventually, collapsed. Is its support any more reliable now? ''This is precisely the political equation the Clintons bet on,'' says Jonathan Oberlander, a health-policy scholar at the University of North Carolina. ''Sorry to say this may turn out to be another mirage.''
 Burd, who like most successful business leaders does not lack self-confidence, vows to see this campaign through and to bring his fellow C.E.O.'s along with him. Veteran universal-coverage supporters like Stern and Wyden who have worked with Burd say they think it's possible he will do just that. But even they concede that Burd's ideas -- and more generally, the ideas of the business community -- don't line up perfectly with their own. How far can such a coalition go? And, no less important, where will it go?
 The first calls to create what we now know as universal health care date back to the early 20th century. Before then, medical care was generally cheap because it was, for the most part, ineffective. As one scientist put it, ''It was around 1910 or 1912 when it became possible to say that a random patient with a random disease consulting a random doctor stood better than a 50-50 chance of benefiting from the encounter.'' But by the 1920s, medical advances -- in particular, the refinement of anesthesia and the development of sanitary techniques -- enabled doctors to cure patients rather than simply comfort them. As medicine grew more sophisticated, however, it became more expensive. Particularly after the Depression set in, large numbers of people could no longer afford to pay for medical care on their own. Many went into debt. Others simply didn't get the care they needed. 
 Franklin Roosevelt ended up rejecting calls to incorporate health insurance into the New Deal; he is thought to have feared that the opposition of organized medicine might sink his Social Security Act. As a result, the inability of patients to pay for their medical bills remained a problem -- not just for the patients but, increasingly, for the providers as well. Having spent the boom years of the 1920s building up their facilities, hospitals faced a serious financial crunch with the onset of the Depression. To improve their prospects of being paid by patients, they created the nation's first group-insurance plans. These plans evolved into the Blue Cross system and eventually became the model upon which all health insurance would be based. Among the most important characteristics of these plans was that they were linked to employment: in order to spread the cost of caring for the sick, hospitals pitched the plans primarily to groups of employees -- a method that brought in enough healthy people to subsidize the cost of the sick or injured.
 By and large, leaders of the business community in the middle of the century embraced this change. Given their staunch opposition to government interference in the private sector, Blue Cross-style insurance seemed the least-objectionable solution to the medical-cost problem. And during World War II, when the government exempted fringe benefits from its strict controls on wages, employers started offering ever more generous health benefits in order to attract workers. Another government decision -- to exempt group health insurance premiums from personal income taxes -- made health insurance an even more attractive option for business to offer. This effectively made a dollar of insurance worth more than a dollar of income, giving companies an easy way to cement worker loyalty. 
 During the postwar era, with widespread prosperity helping to create relatively good relations between management and labor, C.E.O.'s frequently spoke of themselves as stewards of their employees' well-being -- a claim consistent with their role as the country's primary sources of insurance. But by the 1970s, improved technology and increasing demands for it (spurred, in part, by the creation of Medicare) sent the cost of medicine skyrocketing. Meanwhile, America's manufacturing sector faced intense competition from producers abroad who paid considerably less for labor than their American counterparts. As insurance became more expensive, businesses started looking for ways to limit the burden. Often, they succeeded -- which is one reason the proportion of Americans without insurance climbed in the late 1980s and early 1990s, setting in motion the Clinton health-care episode.
 Though it is not widely remembered, Clinton tried hard to curry favor with business. Ira Magaziner, the chief architect of the administration's plan, met repeatedly with corporate leaders to seek their advice, understand their needs and anxieties and test their tolerance for various provisions. Although the final White House plan included an ''employer mandate'' -- meaning all businesses would be required to pay for a portion of their employees' health-care costs -- Clinton constructed that mandate so that many employers would actually benefit: For example, the automakers and other large employers obligated by union contracts to provide generous benefits would get some financial relief. Even businesses that didn't offer such generous benefits would at least enjoy more predictability, since contributions to a government-administered fund would fluctuate a lot less than existing private-insurance premiums. The mandate would have the hardest impact on the country's small businesses, since so many were not providing any sort of health insurance at all. But the Clinton plan had subsidies for these establishments too. Given all this, why didn't business support the Clinton health plan?
 Actually, there was some support -- at least initially. Most notably, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce at first embraced the concept of an employer mandate. But when the chamber, which represents both big and small companies, announced its endorsement, it came under attack from the National Federation of Independent Businesses, which represents only small firms. The chamber quickly started to lose members -- and to field irate calls from Republican legislators warning against giving any support to the Clinton plan. The chamber and other allies backed off.
 Following the plan's demise, the most influential leaders of the business community assumed a strongly oppositional stance to virtually any health-care reform that involved more regulation or spending, no matter how modest. In 1998, when Congress considered passing a law that would regulate the practices of H.M.O.'s, both the Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers joined a coalition that spent $1 million fighting the measure. One of the coalition's advertisements featured a Frankenstein figure -- and a warning to Congress: ''Be careful how you play doctor. You might mandate a monster.''
 It was during the Clinton-era debate over health-care reform that Burd made his first foray into politics as Safeway's C.E.O. In 1993, well before Clinton unveiled his full plan, Democratic lawmakers interested in building support for universal coverage invited a group of corporate leaders -- Burd among them -- to visit Washington. During a brief discussion on Capitol Hill, Burd acknowledged that, yes, he thought universal health care was probably a good idea, because his supermarkets spent so much money on their worker benefits and because universal coverage, done right, might bring some relief. As Burd retells the story, no sooner had the C.E.O.'s finished talking than the legislative staff threw open the doors -- ushering in a flood of reporters and cameras for a news conference. Apparently the other participants knew this was coming, because they had prepared statements. Burd didn't. So he just spoke extemporaneously when his turn came, saying more or less what he had a few minutes earlier. His comments made the next day's papers, but aside from taking a few follow-up calls, Burd says he didn't play much of a role in the political drama that followed. Instead, he watched the coming political train wreck from afar and concluded that there wasn't much a C.E.O. could do in that political environment.
 Within a few years, however, Burd found himself thinking about health care all over again. Like many companies, Safeway received temporary relief from rising insurance costs during the mid- and late 1990s, as insurers began using the techniques of managed care -- restricting patients to certain doctors and bargaining harder on prices from hospitals. But those huge managed-care savings vanished once insurers squeezed out the obvious waste; once consumers rebelled against H.M.O. restrictions; and once doctors and hospitals consolidated into groups with more bargaining leverage. By the late 1990s, premiums started rising at their old rates again. It became all too apparent that if businesses wanted to hold down the cost of employees' health insurance, simply herding everybody into managed care plans wasn't going to do the trick.
 Of course, not all businesses faced the same difficulties. Health-care costs had long been an overriding concern for heavily unionized companies obligated to pay lifetime health benefits to generations of retirees. The Big Three automakers liked to say these ''legacy costs'' added more than a thousand dollars to the cost of every new car, making their products effectively uncompetitive with foreign rivals. And although this was something of an old story -- the former Chrysler C.E.O. Lee Iacocca was warning about health care's impact back in the 1980s -- the problem had magnified over the years. Uwe Reinhardt, a Princeton economist, has described the Big Three automakers as ''a social insurance system that sells cars to finance itself.'' 
 Safeway, certainly, had no comparable burden. But as a low-margin business -- profits in the grocery industry tend to run between 1 and 3 percent of revenues -- it was still very sensitive to rising benefit costs. (Burd likes to refer to the grocery chains as occupying the lowest decks of a leaking ship; as the hull starts to fill with water, they're the first ones to notice.) And while Safeway wasn't directly threatened by competition from abroad, it had become extremely worried about one very big competitor at home: Wal-Mart.
 If G.M., with its lavish insurance, represented the quintessential industrial-age employer, Wal-Mart was a prototype for doing business in the postindustrial era. Its work force was nonunionized (thanks in no small part to the company's staunch resistance) and, as such, it could get away with offering less insurance to fewer workers than companies like Safeway. In late 2003, after Wal-Mart announced that it would take its new superstores into California, the big supermarket chains said they had no way to compete with Wal-Mart's bargain-basement prices without heavy concessions from their workers on benefits. Although the union argued that Safeway was merely using Wal-Mart as an excuse to reduce benefits, the eventual settlement of the ensuing strike gave Burd much of what he wanted. In a new, two-tier benefits system, new employees had to wait longer for benefits and, even then, were not promised the same plan as existing employees. In other words, Safeway's insurance would start to look just a little more like Wal-Mart's.
 Burd had a freer hand to tinker with the benefits of his nonunion employees -- the supervisors and corporate administrative personnel who make up about 15 percent of the company's 200,000-person North American work force. Here he simultaneously adopted two approaches. Instead of offering employees virtually full coverage, Safeway followed the lead of other corporations that were introducing plans with higher deductibles -- and lower premiums. By encouraging employees to ''put some skin in the game,'' as the saying went, business hoped workers would become shrewder -- and more frugal -- consumers of health care. 
 But that was just Step 1. Step 2 was to develop a comprehensive wellness program for the workers. Burd, who is 57, is something of a fitness nut, thanks in part to personal circumstances: With a family history of early heart attacks, he ran on a treadmill every day, lifted weights twice a week and meticulously watched his diet. A high-school baseball player, he took special pride in his leadership of the corporate softball team. But he was even more proud that he'd been keeping his cholesterol level below 135.
 Burd said he thought that if his employees adopted the same habits, they'd be healthier, too. And healthier employees, he'd come to learn, didn't run up such high medical bills. Burd had never been shy about offering Safeway employees advice about how to behave -- in 1998, he famously encouraged his workers to be more cheerful, even setting up a one-day training program that employees mocked as ''smile school''; soon he began feeding his employees a steady diet of healthful-living propaganda, through speeches and newsletters. He also introduced screening and counseling for chronic disease, whose treatment inevitably constitutes the bulk of health-care spending. Enrollment in the screening program was strictly voluntary, but those who joined got breaks on their insurance premiums. And just to make sure employees didn't skimp on preventive care in order to save some money -- a common hazard of higher-deductible plans -- he exempted such treatments from the deductibles and effectively made them free. 
 Burd says the results were impressive: in 2006, the first year of full implementation, employees who enrolled in the newer plans, with the greater individual cost-sharing, had their personal health-care bills drop by 20 to 30 percent, while the company's health bill for those employees shrank by 11 percent. (It is unclear what happened to the costs of people who stayed in the old plan.) But Burd soon realized that corporate cost-cutting had its limits. Over the years his interest in wellness had led him to become a major supporter of disease research. In conversations around the Bay Area, he heard over and over from hospital administrators about the financial burden the uninsured were placing on their facilities -- a burden that eventually rippled through the insurance system and showed up on Safeway's bottom line as inflated health premiums. 
 Burd's first effort to trim costs and keep Safeway competitive involved cutting back on health benefits. Then he tried encouraging his workers to be healthier. Could nationwide universal health care simply be the next step? As long as there were large numbers of uninsured, Burd reasoned, there would be no solution to his company's -- or the country's -- problems with affordable care. And that, he says, is when it finally dawned on him: Maybe this was a problem the company couldn't solve on its own. If he wanted relief from employee health costs, the government would have to help.
 It was not an idea that came easily to Burd, a self-described conservative and Republican; in his office, a ''Bush 2000'' baseball hat sits in a glass display case. But when Burd came to Washington and started talking about his company's problems with health care, it was Wyden, a Democrat, who seemed most interested in working with him. 
 Ultimately, the bill that Wyden and Burd produced is powerful evidence that an alliance including liberals and conservatives, labor and management, can produce meaningful legislation. According to the Lewin Group, a well-respected health-care consulting firm, the Wyden plan would achieve universal health insurance in a financially sound way. Families' costs would vary depending on their medical expenses and the insurance plan they chose, but on average those making less than $40,000 would end up with a little more money than before. Those making more than $40,000 would end up with a little less money, although they'd also get more choice of plans, better benefits and the knowledge that they could never lose their coverage. 
 Wyden is quick to share credit for the plan with Burd, particularly when it comes to what is arguably its most significant provision: the severance of the longstanding relationship between where you work and how you're insured. Under the Wyden proposal, most Americans would still use private insurance. But they would not get that coverage through employers anymore. Instead, all employers that offer insurance would ''cash out'' their benefits -- in effect, giving their employees higher wages rather than health benefits. Once that was done, people would be required to buy coverage on their own, directly from insurers. (Wyden's plan leaves enforcement to the states. Some have suggested that schools could require proof of insurance before enrolling children, and uninsured adults could be penalized on their tax returns.) The federal government, in turn, would closely regulate the insurance offerings to make sure all policies provided certain minimum benefits -- Wyden has initially set those benefits to match existing Blue Cross-Blue Shield plans. Under Wyden's plan, the federal government would also make sure those benefits were available to everybody at the same rate, regardless of pre-existing medical conditions. Finally, the government would offer subsidies to people too poor to buy insurance on their own, phasing out Medicaid.
 Wyden says Burd initially thought that mandating relatively generous benefits was a mistake; it reminded him of those policies he'd replaced at Safeway. But to Wyden's pleasure, Burd didn't insist he strip down his plan. In turn, Burd was pleased to see Wyden promote healthful behavior. In order to finance the subsidies for the poor, Wyden's plan calls for a tax on businesses, pegged to a firm's revenues and size. Companies that now provide relatively generous employee benefits would likely end up paying slightly less under the plan, while companies that don't would likely pay more. And even though employers would no longer be insuring their employees, they would get financial incentives to set up wellness and fitness programs, while employees would get insurance discounts for enrolling in them. 
 Although Wyden says he thinks there's a chance his bill, or something like it, could pass this Congress, most experts believe a serious effort to achieve universal health care won't take place until after a new president takes office in 2009. Then Wyden's plan could well become a starting point for the discussion, particularly since it represents a variation on the most-talked-about health-care reform idea of the moment: the ''individual mandate,'' so called because it ''mandates'' that ''individuals'' buy private insurance just as individuals with cars are mandated to buy private auto insurance. (In some individual-mandate schemes, people can still enroll in public programs like Medicaid if they are eligible.) Mitt Romney and Arnold Schwarzenegger made the individual mandate the foundation of their universal-coverage plans.
 It's no great mystery why some businesses might like an individual mandate. It gets them out of the business of insuring their workers while relieving them of most, if not all, of the financial liabilities associated with health care. In addition, it levels the playing field among companies that have been generous and companies that haven't -- in effect, taking away Wal-Mart's ability to undercut Safeway by skimping on worker benefits. No less important, an individual mandate does all of this without asking the government to assume direct responsibility for providing most Americans with health care -- which is what would happen if the U.S. instead adopted what is known as a ''single payer'' system. Indeed, that's usually the punch line of Burd's pitch to corporate audiences: If business doesn't coalesce behind a universal scheme that's based on private insurance, he warns them, frustration with the status quo will produce a backlash that results in single-payer. 
 Of course, some experts would argue that, strictly on the merits, a single-payer system might actually work better. Unlike plans like Wyden's that rely on private insurers, a single-payer plan substantially reduces the amount of money spent on administration, since insurance companies spend far more on overhead (and marketing, and profits) than public systems. And while the data on medical outcomes are notoriously uneven and hard to interpret, they don't show that the United States provides uniformly better care than single-payer nations like Canada or France. In fact, on measures like ''Disability Adjusted Life Expectancy,'' which social scientists use to measure the performance of national health-care arrangements, single-payer systems actually seem to perform slightly better on the whole. 
 Insofar as the advocates to Burd's left are eager to achieve universal coverage any way they can -- even if it means adopting what they consider an imperfect model -- none of this may matter. ''We're ready to have a very bipartisan solution,'' Andy Stern said. ''What you are seeing now that you didn't see in 1994 is that everyone is on the same side saying, 'We want universal coverage.' The only question is, How?'' But some of Burd's fellow members of the business community are another matter. Like Burd, they believe forcing workers to take on higher deductibles and more responsibility for their health care decisions is a good strategy for controlling costs. Unlike Burd, they're not necessarily so committed to subsidizing preventive care or providing benefits as generous as Wyden's plan. And they are certainly not that enthusiastic about government doing more -- even if it's a plan that preserves a large role for private insurance. ''We should not forget there is another way out for companies besides government intervention,'' says Jonathan Oberlander, the health-policy scholar. ''Cut back on coverage, hold down wages and shift costs to workers.'' 
 Then again, maybe Burd doesn't have to bring along all of corporate America, with its many and sometimes conflicting interests, in order to make a difference. Maybe it is enough for him simply to give the idea of universal health care greater respectability -- to give it the imprimatur of businessmen, who, after all, are typically the kinds of people most suspicious of such grandiose interventions in the first place. And if Burd is acting for reasons that largely reflect his corporate sensibility rather than a sense of social responsibility, even the most passionate advocates for universal coverage say they can live with that. ''Unfortunately, simply making this a moral issue hasn't worked,'' Andy Stern says. ''Making it clear that this is a competitiveness and jobs issue, as well--that is what has propelled the business community into this discussion.'' 
 Besides, Safeway's bottom line is not the only thing on Burd's mind these days. As he has gotten more deeply into this campaign, he has talked increasingly about the health-care crisis as a threat to competitiveness -- one in which the future of the entire American economy hangs in the balance. At the same time, the health-care problem lately -- and unexpectedly -- acquired a personal resonance. Burd's own son, a recent college graduate, now runs a small fitness company. Like Burd, he works hard to keep in top physical shape. But because he injured his back a few months ago, and received cortisone treatments for it, insurance carriers have been turning down his insurance applications. 
 Most likely, Burd's son will be just fine. One of the perks of being a nationally prominent C.E.O. is that you tend to know other C.E.O.'s, including those who run insurance companies. Burd has sent off a few pointed inquiries, and, he told me with a grin, he's pretty sure one company or another will find a way to write a policy for his son. But Burd has also taken note of the experience: it's just one more sign that American health insurance doesn't work the way it should. It may not offend his morality, but it certainly offends his sense of efficiency. If that's what makes him such an influential supporter of universal health care, his newfound allies in the fight aren't going to complain.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Marc Alary) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (91%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); LABOR UNIONS (87%); HISTORY (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); RELIGION (60%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (50%) Medicine and Health; Food; Supermarkets; Law and Legislation; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Labor; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (55%) Safeway Inc

PERSON: STEVEN A BURD (89%); RON WYDEN (79%) Jonathan Cohn; Steven A Burd; Ron (Sen) Wyden

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States; California

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



30 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey in the Bull's-Eye

 BODY:
With all their talk about homeland security, the Bush administration and Congress are doing almost nothing to protect Americans against the danger of an attack on the nation's chemical facilities. 
 That danger is especially acute in New Jersey, a center of the chemical industry. Anyone driving on a stretch of the New Jersey Turnpike south of Newark can get an idea of the risk just by looking out the window. And those ugly, malodorous plants are only the most visible targets. Many potentially dangerous but less obtrusive chemical plants and food processors using toxic refrigerants are scattered across the state. 
In recent weeks, attention has focused on the Kuehne chemical plant, a particularly vulnerable chlorine factory located near the Pulaski Skyway in Kearny. An explosion at the plant or at just one of the freight cars parked on the plant's rail link could release clouds of deadly chlorine gas that would drift as far as the west side of Manhattan and put millions of people at risk. 
 New Jersey is trying to address the problem on its own. Last month, Gov. Jon Corzine, who as a Senator worked hard but unsuccessfully for tighter safety regulations for chemical plants, ordered 52 plants using or manufacturing explosive or toxic chemicals to develop plans for using safer materials and manufacturing processes, and to involve their employees in the effort. This would bring to 92 the number of plants in New Jersey that are drawing up blueprints for new safety measures. 
 In part because the chemical industry is so important to the state's economic health, and in part because of the industry's influence in Trenton, Mr. Corzine's directive will not require the companies to carry out their plans. However, a company would have to provide a detailed explanation of why it is not following through, which in itself could be an incentive to act. The state has not ruled out making these plans mandatory at some point in the future, and it should do so as soon as it can.
 Even in their present form, however, New Jersey's regulations are much tougher than the federal rules that are about to take effect. That alarms Mr. Corzine and several New Jersey members of Congress, all of whom fear the Bush administration, under pressure from industry, will try to assert federal supremacy in the matter to prevent any state from enforcing chemical safeguards tougher than the federal provisions. Such a ban would, of course, make New Jersey less safe than it is now. 
 U.S. Sen. Frank Lautenberg and Rep. Steven Rothman, New Jersey Democrats, have added amendments to the supplemental spending bill for the Iraq war barring federal pre-emption. But these provisions may not survive the legislative process, in which case the administration may be tempted to force New Jersey to weaken its regulations. This might be good for industry's bottom line but not for people in New Jersey and the metropolitan area. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMICALS SAFETY REGULATION (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); CHEMICALS MFG (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS (78%); TERRORISM (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); CHLORINE (77%); CHEMICALS REGULATION & POLICY (77%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (77%); EXPLOSIVES (77%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (71%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (71%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (68%); IRAQ WAR (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Chemicals; Law and Legislation; Editorials; Hazardous and Toxic Substances; Factories and Industrial Plants; Terrorism; Chemicals; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry

PERSON: JON CORZINE (79%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (78%); STEVEN R ROTHMAN (78%) Jon S (Gov) Corzine; Frank R (Sen) Lautenberg; Steven (Rep) Rothman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (73%) United States; New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



31 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 239 words

HEADLINE: The Cost of Living In Connecticut

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Ruffled Feathers'' (editorial, March 25):
Gov. M. Jodi Rell may think Connecticut's most pressing problem is poor education, and the Democrats who control the Legislature may think it is lack of universal health care. But the main problem is the high cost of living and working in Connecticut, which is driving out both residents and jobs. 
 Connecticut's education spending per student is among the highest in the country, and Connecticut students outperform the national average. The percentage of Connecticut residents without health care is below the national average. Despite these factors, Connecticut has one of the slowest-growing populations in the country, and has been rapidly bleeding industrial jobs. 
 Will more education spending help? Ohio increased education spending and tax rates massively in the last decade in response to a court order. The increase in tax rates contributed to an economic slowdown. Massachusetts is struggling with significant cost overruns in its new universal health care scheme, with young and healthy people with moderate incomes being pressured to leave the state by mandatory insurance policy costs that are as much as twice what was promised by the Legislature. 
 The governor and the Legislature should avoid tax increases that could reduce the state's economic competitiveness, and work to reform existing spending before seeking to spend more money.Lars BaderGreenwich

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); COST OF LIVING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); GOVERNORS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (74%); TAX INCREASES (73%); TAX LAW (73%); TRENDS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); INSURANCE POLICIES (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Education and Schools; Labor; Economic Conditions and Trends; Editorials; Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care

PERSON: M JODI RELL (73%) Lars Bader

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



32 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; CAMPAIGN '08; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Says Ties to Kerik May Hurt Him With Voters

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

DATELINE: MANALAPAN, Fla., March 31 

 BODY:
Buffeted once again by bad news about his disgraced former police commissioner, Rudolph W. Giuliani said Saturday that he should have looked more closely into the commissioner's background and acknowledged that it may cause voters to question his judgment.
 The New York Times reported Friday that Mr. Giuliani may have been told that the former commissioner, Bernard B. Kerik, had a relationship to a company suspected of having ties to organized crime -- an accusation the company denies -- even before he chose Mr. Kerik to head the New York Police Department. 
''I think I should have done a better job of investigating him, vetting him, however you want to describe that,'' Mr. Giuliani said in his first extended public comments on the latest revelations about Mr. Kerik. ''It's my responsibility, and I've learned from it,'' he said, adding, ''I'll make sure that I do a much better job of checking into people in the future.''
 Mr. Kerik, who has been under federal investigation in recent months, turned down a plea deal several weeks ago in which federal prosecutors offered to allow him to admit to tax fraud and conspiring to eavesdrop illegally in exchange for a two-year prison term, according to a person briefed on the case. Charges against Mr. Kerik are possible in the coming weeks, several people briefed on the case have said.
 Mr. Giuliani made his remarks to reporters here Saturday after addressing members of the Club for Growth, a conservative economic advocacy group.
 Asked how Mr. Kerik's troubles might influence voters' views of Mr. Giuliani as he runs for president, he said: ''People have a right to question my judgment. They have a right to question everything about me. And then they have to look at the things that I've done that were successful, the things I think that I've done that are right, and the mistakes they think I've made.''
 As mayor of New York City, Mr. Giuliani put Mr. Kerik -- a friend and former police detective -- in charge of the city's jail system. Then, in 2000, he named Mr. Kerik police commissioner, the top official in the New York Police Department.
 After Mr. Giuliani left office, he and Mr. Kerik were partners in a security consulting business. And in 2005, he supported President Bush's choice of Mr. Kerik as federal secretary of homeland security, a selection that was withdrawn as questions were raised about Mr. Kerik.
 Mr. Giuliani said today, as he has many times before, that ''I made a mistake in recommending Bernie Kerik to the president.''
 Mr. Kerik pleaded guilty last year in a New York State court to two misdemeanor charges, admitting that he illegally accepted $165,000 in free renovations of his apartment from a contracting company, Interstate Industrial Corporation, which city regulators suspect of having ties to organized crime.
 The Times reported on Friday that Mr. Giuliani, testifying under oath in April 2006, told a grand jury that the former city commissioner of investigation remembered briefing him on some aspects of Mr. Kerik's relationship to Interstate in 2000, before he named Mr. Kerik as police commissioner.
 Mr. Giuliani had previously said publicly that he had not known of those connections until years later. 
 Mr. Giuliani said he did not recall any of the briefings remembered by the chief investigator, Edward Kuriansky. He suggested that perhaps he had forgotten them because Mr. Kuriansky had cleared Mr. Kerik to be elevated to the post.
 He said appointment calendars kept by Mr. Kuriansky do not show that he was briefed on Interstate. But partially redacted copies of the calendars, which were provided to The Times by New York City, list one meeting of a kind that Mr. Giuliani typically attended at which a former Interstate employee, who was also a close friend of Mr. Kerik, was listed as a topic for discussion.
 Mr. Giuliani also testified last year that his aides who took part in some of the meetings did not recall hearing anything about Mr. Kerik's ties to the company.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); GUILTY PLEAS (76%); ORGANIZED CRIME (76%); CONSPIRACY (76%); TAX FRAUD (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); MISDEMEANORS (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (76%); WIRETAPPING (74%); ETHICS (71%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (71%); TAX LAW (71%); PRISONS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (63%) Presidential Election of 2008; Organized Crime; Wiretapping and Other Eavesdropping Devices and Methods; Tax Evasion; Election Issues; Police; Presidential Election of 2008; Ethics

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (59%) Interstate Industrial Corp; Homeland Security Department

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (68%) Richard Perez-Pena; Rudolph W Giuliani; Bernard B Kerik

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



33 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1643 words

HEADLINE: Legislators Miss Deadline But Begin Passing Budget, Tax Rebates Included

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: ALBANY, Sunday, April 1 

 BODY:
Lawmakers began voting Saturday night on an estimated $120.9 billion budget that would extend health coverage to the state's 400,000 uninsured children, cut more than $1 billion worth of Medicaid spending and send out $1.3 billion worth of property tax rebate checks this year.
 Much of the budget had not been passed by the state's midnight deadline, although lawmakers expected to finish the voting by Sunday.
The budget, the first under Gov. Eliot Spitzer, but one that fell short of what the brash former attorney general had hoped for, as Senate Republicans appeared to outmaneuver him in some areas. 
 It also would increase state spending by more than three times the rate of inflation, making it one of the most expensive budgets in decades. 
 The process was held up Saturday as the governor and legislative leaders continued to haggle over last-minute details, particularly involving the education proposals. But because the majority leaders of both houses appeared to be in agreement Saturday night, the budget was expected to pass. If it passed on Sunday, the missed deadline would be largely symbolic and would not affect state operations.
 But some lawmakers were dismayed that they would be asked to vote on thousands of pages of legislation that they could not possibly have time to read, with Republicans on the Assembly floor loudly objecting to the process Saturday night.
 Governor Spitzer did prevail on several key policy objectives. Lawmakers agreed to expand Child Health Plus, a state-financed insurance program for children, to families earning 400 percent of the federal poverty level. The change would make the aid available to virtually all of the 400,000 uninsured children in the state, lawmakers said. They also took steps to simplify bureaucratic hurdles to make it easier for parents and guardians to enroll children and keep them covered. 
 Senate Republicans dropped their opposition to a state false claims act that would provide substantial financial incentives to state or local government workers, or other citizens, who blow the whistle on government fraud. Democrats portrayed the act as a critical tool in reining in fraud in the state's sprawling Medicaid plan. The Senate Republicans had said it would lead to too many lawsuits. 
 Legislators were also expected to approve a $600 million fund for stem cell research, a high priority of the governor. 
 Governor Spitzer also kept in place nearly $1 billion worth of proposed Medicaid cuts. He relented, however, on $356 million more in cuts, mostly to hospitals and nursing homes, after a fierce fight with the health care lobby, which engaged him in a bruising media and advertising campaign. The sides continued to dispute who won and who lost.
 ''We've covered enormous ground, in terms of policy,'' the governor said late Saturday. ''We are getting every kid insured -- health insurance. We're getting stem cell research. We're getting a false claims act. We're getting charter schools. We're getting the sorts of reforms that had been long thought impossible.''
 The agreements reached in the past week were hammered out almost entirely behind closed doors by the governor and leaders of the Legislature. As a result, many of the details will not be clear to rank-and-file lawmakers until well after the budget is passed, and at least some of the dollar numbers could shift. 
 A couple of Mr. Spitzer's proposals were rejected in late negotiations on Saturday, including judicial pay increases and $1,000 tax credits for parochial school tuition. Talks also stalled on a proposal favored by Assembly Democrats to require that New York City use a certain amount of its new school aid to reduce class sizes. The measure was opposed by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, and it appeared to be moderated into something closer to a suggestion instead of a requirement, people with knowledge of the negotiations said. 
 Lawmakers did agree to double the number of charter schools to 200, with up to half of the new ones to be created in New York City. 
 The governor also compromised on his plan to halt $328 million of unrestricted municipal aid payments to New York City, agreeing instead to restore $20 million in the fiscal year that begins on Sunday and the full amount in the following year. 
 The state will spend on the order of $1.8 billion more on education aid this year, a significant increase. The governor had proposed to send substantially more aid to New York City schools to resolve a lengthy legal battle that the Campaign for Fiscal Equity, an education advocacy group, fought with the state. 
 But the governor's plan to wipe out the complicated and politically fraught education aid formula, by which ''shares'' of aid have been distributed around the state, met with fierce resistance from Long Island Republicans in the Senate. 
 The deputy majority leader, Senator Dean G. Skelos of Nassau County, said the new proposal would lead to a sharp reduction in aid to his constituents. 
 In the end, the governor agreed to add roughly $400 million to his original proposal.
 ''The people on the Island are going to benefit, when they were disenfranchised in the original proposal,'' said the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, the state's top Republican. ''That's thanks to the Republican majority, Senator Skelos and the others, and no one else, and that's a fact.''
 The governor and the legislative leaders also agreed to send $1.3 billion worth of property tax rebate checks to homeowners next year, in addition to an existing $3.6 billion the state sends to local governments to reduce property tax bills. 
 The governor won on one of his major priorities, to direct that aid to the middle class, but the Senate forced him to include a wealthier mix of people. The total amount of relief also was less than either side had initially proposed. 
 The largest rebate checks are intended for homeowners with incomes of up to $120,000 downstate and up to $90,000 upstate. New York City residents also are to receive a modestly increased credit on their city income taxes, which are the main source of school financing in the city.
 The overall budget weighed in at $120.9 billion, including federal funds, according to the latest estimate, though the numbers tend to be re-estimated daily late in budget negotiations. 
 Though that number grew only slightly from Mr. Spitzer's $120.6 billion executive budget, the Legislature added more than $1 billion worth of new state spending, which was offset by shrinking federal aid. 
 State spending is projected to rise to $84 billion from $77.3 billion, an increase of 8.7 percent. That is well beyond a 2.6 percent inflation rate projected for the state. 
 The final package will use up additional tax revenue that the state was expecting as a result of a relatively prosperous economy; the governor had hoped to set aside more of that money for reserves. 
 ''I think that there is going to be a lot of heavy lifting to do next year,'' said Elizabeth Lynam, deputy research director of the Citizens Budget Commission, an independent watchdog group. 
 ''They achieved some cost control in Medicaid, although not enough, and in school aid, they managed to shake up the dialogue about shares and move off the shares concept to some degree, but there are still issues with the formulas that will need to be tackled,'' she said. 
 She and other analysts have also been concerned about the property tax rebate checks, which will greatly expand a system that has not appeared to accomplish the desired effect: keeping soaring property taxes in check. 
 ''They are building on a broken foundation,'' Ms. Lynam said. 
 Some of the governor's initiatives were taken off the table by legislative leaders, including his proposal to expand nickel deposits to bottles of water, iced tea and sports drinks and to raise $100 million by keeping unclaimed deposits. Currently, grocers and bottlers keep unclaimed deposits. A number of observers were troubled by the lack of transparency in the budget process this year, even by the standards of Albany, which is known for secretive deals. This year, public budget negotiating sessions in the Legislature were largely relegated to rubber-stamping agreements behind closed doors.
 ''I hope that as we go forward there will be a process that will be more open,'' Governor Spitzer said. ''We all want that.''
 The governor waived the required three-day waiting period between printing bills and voting on them. That meant that lawmakers would not have time to read the stacks of budget bills before voting on them.
 ''Whatever bad things the Legislature wants to do probably would not withstand the light of day, but there is no light of day,'' said Edmund J. McMahon, director of the Empire Center for New York State Policy, a conservative policy group. 
 The Assembly minority leader, James N. Tedisco, a Republican, said Saturday night that ''it won't be a reality budget because nobody's going to be able to read it,'' adding that he planned to vote against most of the budget. 
 Mr. McMahon and other observers said they were puzzled that Governor Spitzer seemed willing to cut deals to get a budget approved on time, instead of holding out for broader reforms. 
 ''He backed off the brink there and I'm not quite sure why,'' Mr. McMahon said. ''Basically, he leaves a lot of unfinished business. He talked about turning around a battleship; I think the battleship is wedged in dry dock.''
 The governor, for his part, cited the quick transition required in New York, where new governors must submit their first budget at the end of their first month in office. He said that such a brief period did not permit time for the sort of analysis his office would be able to do next time. 
 ''I believe if you look at the time frame we had,'' Mr. Spitzer said, ''we did very well.''

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Cutting Deals''Gov. Eliot Spitzer and legislative leaders reached agreement on some but not all of his budget proposals.HEALTH CAREMedicaid -- The governor sought $1.3 billion in Medicaid and health care cuts, relenting on some of them after a bruising fight with hospital and nursing home groups and unions.EXECUTIVE BUDGET: - $1.3 billionNEW ESTIMATE: - $0.9 billionChild health insurance -- The governor obtained provisions that increase the number of children eligible to be covered by health insurance.EXECUTIVE BUDGET: ProposedNEW ESTIMATE: ApprovedMedicaid eligibility -- The governor achieved a streamlining of Medicaid enrollment to allow 900,000 eligible uninsured adults and children to get and keep health coverage.EXECUTIVE BUDGET: ProposedNEW ESTIMATE: ApprovedEDUCATIONCharter schools -- The governor wanted to raise the cap from 100 to 250
got it to 200.EXECUTIVE BUDGET: 150 new schoolsNEW ESTIMATE: 100 new schoolsNew foundation formula -- The governor collapsed the state's many school financing formulas into one foundation formula designed to send the most money to high-needs districts, but Senate Republicans added more than $400 million in education spending outside the formula to favor wealthier districts.EXECUTIVE BUDGET: $1.4 billion increaseNEW ESTIMATE: $1.8 billion* increasePROPERTY TAXESThe governor wanted to direct most of the new property tax relief to the middle class. The Senate did not, and it wanted to use rebate checks instead of channeling the money through school districts. The sides compromised on the definition of middle class and will use rebate checks.EXECUTIVE BUDGET: $1.5 billionNEW ESTIMATE: $1.3 billionOTHER ISSUESStem Cell Initiative -- The governor asked for $67 million in capital investment and $33 million in operating expenses, to be divided equally between research on stem cells and emerging technologies. He got the entire $100 million, all of it for operating expenses.EXECUTIVE BUDGET: $100 millionNEW ESTIMATE: $100 millionMunicipal Aid -- The governor wanted to eliminate $328 million in unrestricted municipal aid to New York City in favor of needier cities, but Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg objected.EXECUTIVE BUDGET: - $328 millionNEW ESTIMATE: - $308 million
 fully restored in 2008-9False Claims Act -- The governor wanted a false claims act providing financial incentives to government whistleblowers. Won the measure over Republican objections.EXECUTIVE BUDGET: ProposedNEW ESTIMATE: ApprovedClosing corporate tax loopholes -- Four out of 13 loopholes were closed, but in exchange for $75 million in across-the-board corporate tax cuts and $75 million for manufacturers.EXECUTIVE BUDGET: $653 millionNEW ESTIMATE: $405 millionTOTAL BUDGET STATE FISCAL YEAR 2007-8The Legislature added $1 billion in new spending, but a decrease in federal aid to the state lowered the total size of the budget.EXECUTIVE BUDGET: $120.6 billionNEW ESTIMATE: $120.9 billion*The precise figure, and several others, were not clear yesterday.(Source by New York State Division of the Budget)(pg. 32) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); BUDGETS (91%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MEDICAID (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (89%); MEDICAL INSURANCE CLAIMS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); LOBBYING (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CONTUSIONS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); APPROVALS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LITIGATION (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); NURSING HOMES (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); INFLATION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (67%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (64%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (62%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (60%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (60%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (59%); SALES REBATES (57%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (90%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicaid; Taxation; Property Taxes; Rebates; Education and Schools; Charter Schools; Children and Youth

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (90%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%) Eliot (Gov) Spitzer; Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



34 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 5117 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Narrator

BYLINE: By Ben Wallace-Wells. 
Ben Wallace-Wells writes about national affairs for Rolling Stone. His last article for the magazine was a profile of Tony Snow, the White House press secretary.

 BODY:
I.
 When Barack Obama decided in January that he would run for president in 2008 and quietly began calling up his staff members and close supporters to tell them so, the choice had many effects, but one of the most immediate and parochial was that it sent Obama's chief political and media adviser, a Chicago consultant named David Axelrod, into his editing studio. For four years Axelrod has had camera crews tracking virtually everything Obama has done in public -- chatting up World War II vets in southern Illinois, visiting his father's ancestral village in western Kenya -- and there were days when the camera crews have outnumbered the civilians. 
In the second week of January, Axelrod went down to his editing studio, a raw, whitewashed loft space, and began to sort through all of this tape to put together a five-minute Internet video for the initial announcement of Obama's campaign, which would come the following Tuesday, Jan. 16. Political observers tend to dismiss bio pieces as fluff. But for Axelrod they supply a coordinating presence, a basic story to wrap the campaign around. There is precision in the fluff. Axelrod says he believes that Obama is something different: a ''trailblazing'' figure who ''represents the future.'' And indeed, so far Obama's campaign has been steeped in his biography. This is, after all, a 45-year-old man who has written not one but two memoirs. Most of the raw videotape Axelrod has is the banal, worn imagery of politics -- Obama speaking from a podium, with the familiar, angled hand gestures, or seated and listening intently, elbows on knees -- and somehow from this he had hoped to wring transcendence. There was a clip he found from the early stages of the 2004 Senate campaign of Obama, microphone in hand, introducing himself to a small group of voters at a coffeehouse on Chicago's North Side; when the candidate told them about his work in the early 1990s as a community organizer, there was a spontaneous, sustained applause. ''I remember that!'' Axelrod told me a few days later as we watched the finished product in his office the morning it was released to the public. ''You know, we hadn't thought that was an important part of his bio, but people really responded to the fact that Barack gave up corporate job offers to work in the community.''
 Axelrod has the political operative's BlackBerried, wearied demeanor, at once somewhat more and somewhat less than fully awake. His conversations are staccato, 90-second affairs, affirmations and advice. The day the video was released, he had six TV news crews lined up to interview him for segments they were putting together on Obama's announcement. The Fox cameraman started hooking up his wires. He told Axelrod he had just walked past the subway station, and a worker, seeing the TV cameras, asked whom the crew was going to interview: ''And I say David Axelrod, and she just screams, 'Obama's running!' That's all I had to say!''
 ''Yeah?'' Axelrod replied, BlackBerrying, happy. He turned the video back on. Axelrod says he loves man-on-the-street interviews, and while digging through the tape the week before, he found one he did with a young Hispanic guy. ''He gives you a -- a sense of hope,'' the young man says, squinting past the camera, swaying slightly. ''Uh, at a time when, you know, things in this country are not going so well.'' It's a good message for Obama, and a good messenger, but what Axelrod likes are the stutters, the verbal hiccups: ''That kind of authenticity is how you cut through.''
 Axelrod says viewers are more likely to be arrested by shots that look rough, like ''a hybrid, part political commercial, part news.'' He found a grainy, C-Span-style shot of Obama talking about homelessness on the floor of the State Senate, which Axelrod now uses to establish Obama's prior political experience. The consultant picked out a lingering, distant shot of Obama walking down a sunny southern Illinois road with his long arm around an older, short white farmer. He says this was intended to convey his candidate's case with conversation, his cross-cultural capability. The completed announcement video would begin and end with Obama's keynote address to the Democratic National Convention, and it would include two full minutes on his early life -- his father's background, his mother's, his grandfather's, the times he moved when he was a little boy. When you finish watching the video, you don't have a particularly good sense of Obama as a politician (you might be able to say that he's for change), but there is an intimacy -- you have been drowned in his life, and you feel as if you know him.
 There are a variety of problems of political communication that the industry's operatives spend their time obsessing over. One, which obsessed James Carville, is persuasion: How do you persuade people who believe one thing to believe another? A second, the big one for Joe Trippi, is commitment: What motivates your party's loyalists to go to the polls in larger numbers? But Axelrod has become animated by a more basic challenge of political communication, the problem of breaking through, of sounding different and new. Axelrod says that the way to cut through all the noise is to see campaigns as an author might, to understand that you need not just ideas but also a credible and authentic character, a distinct politics rooted in personality. (''David breaks them down,'' Peter Giangreco, a Chicago direct-mail consultant who often works with Axelrod, told me. ''Who is your mother? Who is your father? Why are you doing this?'') This, Axelrod says, is what Karl Rove understood about George W. Bush. ''One of the reasons Bush has succeeded in two elections,'' Axelrod says, ''is that in his own rough-hewn way he has conveyed a sense of this is who I am, warts and all.'' For Obama, because of Senator Hillary Clinton's far-greater experience and establishment backing, this is a particularly essential project. ''If we run a conventional campaign and look like a conventional candidacy, we lose,'' Axelrod says.
 When the first major profile of Axelrod appeared in Chicago magazine in 1987, three years after he left a high-profile job as the lead political reporter for The Chicago Tribune to work as a political operative, the article (''Hatchet Man: The Rise of David Axelrod'') began by comparing him to an ''exotic rodent.'' Two decades later, there remains the matter of the comb-over and the damp mustache, but his looks seem less important now. In the last four years, Axelrod has helped steer campaigns for fully four of the Democrats now running for president -- Obama, Clinton, John Edwards and Chris Dodd -- and one who dropped out (Tom Vilsack); framed the messages for the new young governor of Massachusetts, Deval Patrick; and served as the chief political adviser for Representative Rahm Emanuel when the congressman helped orchestrate the Democratic takeover of the House of Representatives last fall. 
 Axelrod, who is 52, is lumbering, sardonic and self-deprecating, and he still has the old Chicago street-fighter belief that you can see what matters about politics most clearly when you're slumming in the wards. His bookshelves are filled with Abe Lincoln biographies, but what he says he admires about Lincoln isn't just his philosophy but his political effectiveness, the Great Emancipator's secret shiv. Professional opinions of Axelrod in this pitted, rivalrous field vary, but Axelrod, working from Chicago, has become perhaps the consultant with the tightest grip on his party's future. ''So many consultants are fighting the last war, but David is fighting the next one, and that makes him very, very dangerous,'' the Republican consultant Mike Murphy told me.
 After the consecutive presidential losses of Al Gore and John Kerry, patrician candidates who ran ill-fitting ''people versus the powerful'' campaigns designed for them by the consultant Bob Shrum, many Democrats began to suspect that part of what was wrong with the party was its formulaic consultants. The party has suffered, Axelrod says, from a ''Wizard of Oz syndrome among Washington political consultants who tend to come to candidates and say: I have the stone tablets! You do what I say, and you will get elected. And they fit their candidates into their rubric.'' 
 Axelrod's is a less grand, postideological approach, and his campaigns are rooted less in issues than in the particulars of his candidate's life. For him, running campaigns hitched to personality rather than ideology is a way of reclaiming fleeting authenticity. It is also, more and more, the way of the Democratic Party. Its 2006 Congressional campaign strategy -- run by Axelrod's close friend Emanuel, with the Chicago consultant acting as principal sounding board -- did not depend on any great idea of where the party ought to go, like the last political cataclysm, Newt Gingrich's 1994 House ''revolution.'' As they have reclaimed power, the Democrats have done so not by moving appreciably to the left or the right; rather, they have done so by allowing their candidates to move in both directions at once. ''What David is basically doing -- and this is somewhat new for Democrats -- isn't trying to figure out how to sell policies,'' says the Democratic media consultant Saul Shorr. ''It's a matter of personality. How do we sell leadership?''II.
 It seems bizarre to consider now, but there was a time, just about three years ago, when Barack Obama was a pretty obscure black candidate for statewide office, and his political fortunes seemed to obey the regular, racialized rules of urban politics. The campaign needed to find a way for him to add white progressives from the Chicago suburbs and lakefront to his expected base among black voters. ''When you're breaking barriers and asking voters to do something they haven't done before -- vote for an African-American for governor or senator -- it's very helpful to have third-party authentication, newspaper endorsements or institutional support, to encourage them to go there,'' Axelrod told me. His first choice to vouch for Obama was his old client Paul Simon, the bow-tied, progressive, retired U.S. senator and a beloved figure in their target demographics. But just as Axelrod was trying to fix dates, Simon was taken to the hospital for heart surgery; he died the next day. Paul Harstad, the campaign's pollster, told me that Axelrod was adamant that Simon had been the perfect proxy. So he sought out the closest substitute he could find and cut a commercial featuring the senator's daughter, Sheila, a member of the Carbondale, Ill., City Council. Sheila Simon made an ad for Axelrod linking Obama's legacy and her father's, saying they were ''cut from the same cloth.'' When the cash-strapped campaign put the ads on the air and then followed up with another ad linking Obama to Harold Washington, the late, beloved, liberal mayor of Chicago, ''that was it,'' according to Mark Blumenthal, who was running tracking polls for the opposing Senate campaign of Blair Hull. ''The ads did something rare in politics, which was make Obama seem like a historic candidate,'' Blumenthal told me. ''They helped move his numbers from 30, 35 percent up to 53 percent, and it became a landslide. You could just about see this whole Obama wave beginning.''
 Axelrod has known Obama longer than any of his other close political advisers and, other campaign officials say, is now Obama's chief strategist and someone he ''trusts implicitly.'' Axelrod has been intimately involved with the staffing of the campaign (David Plouffe, who was a partner in Axelrod's consulting firm, is now Obama's campaign manager), with its strategy and pacing and with the scrubbing of its message and language. Because of the vastness of the operation, Axelrod has had to hire other media consultants to help him develop commercials; his own role, he says, will be as ''keeper of the message.'' One senior campaign adviser told me: ''Barack is a no-drama kind of guy. He's not looking for a person or a group of people that bring their own set of dramas to the operation. What [Obama] gets from David is no nonsense.''
 Axelrod met Obama when the senator was 30 years old and coordinating a voter-registration drive in Chicago and Betty Lou Saltzman, a doyenne of progressive politics in Chicago, suggested that the two get to know each other. In the 15 years since, Axelrod has worked through Obama's life story again and again, scouring it for usable political material, and he believes that some basic themes come through: that he is ''not wedded to any ideological frame or dogma,'' that he is ''an outsider rather than someone who's spent years in the dens of Georgetown,'' that he is an ''agent for change'' and has the optimism and dynamism of a fresh, young face. Axelrod knows that each of these characteristics has its flip side -- optimism can be read as naivete, independence as ideological unmooredness, unjadedness for a lack of experience and bipartisanship as an instinct to avoid necessary combat.
 In his office back in Chicago, Axelrod's walls aren't covered with bookcases but with political images, candidates Axelrod has worked for on winning election nights, their hands thrust up, their grins wide, the newspaper headlines behind them. There are the black mayors of Philadelphia, Cleveland, Detroit and Chicago. There is a charming, signed shot of Obama underneath a print of Muhammad Ali knocking out Sonny Liston. Signed thanks from Harold Washington. It is a museum of a particular kind of history -- not just the evolution of the modern political left but also the ascendance of a particular kind of charismatic, reformer African-American candidate -- and you get the sense that this is how the consultant sees himself, as a curator of this history. Electing Obama president would be ''something you could really be proud of for the rest of your life,'' Axelrod told me in early January. ''It would really change politics in a very positive way.'' When he talks about his own ideas, Axelrod has a habit of substituting anecdotes not from his own life but from Obama's, or Deval Patrick's, as if his is a compounded, and cultivated, existence. 
 With Obama's candidacy, Axelrod is placing a gaudy bet: that the symbolic significance of race has now begun to flip. An underlying message of the campaign is that African-American candidates can symbolically represent the future. I asked him if he thought that Obama's race would be a detriment. ''I don't think of it as a detriment,'' Axelrod said. ''I know that there are people who wouldn't vote for a black candidate, but I don't know if they would vote for a Democratic candidate anyway. But I think that in a sense Barack is the personification of his own message for this country, that we get past the things that divide us and focus on the things that unite us. He is his own vision.''
 Every veteran political operative has his batch of lessons learned. From his experience running the antic, aggressive Emanuel's campaign for Congress, he realized that the way to deal with your client's perceived flaws is to embrace them and not run from them. When he ran Tom Vilsack's campaign for governor of Iowa, he learned that the smoothest way to beat back a staunch social conservative message is to attack not the content but ''the over-the-top negativism'' that often accompanies it. From some advisory work he did for Bill Clinton during the 1996 campaign, when he wrote the memo that introduced the phrase ''Bridge to the 21st century'' into the political vernacular, Axelrod learned that for a Democrat the future always trumps the past. He says he also learned from Clinton that a pol's biggest task is ''to narrow the distance between the people and government.'' From a distance, he watched Karl Rove help George Bush win two terms as president by ''understanding that every election is a reaction to the last president'' and then in 2004 by ''figuring out how to make Bush's stubbornness into a political virtue.'' During the 2004 convention, he stood with Senator Chris Dodd, who told Axelrod that Democrats ''were making a mistake by turning the whole thing into a giant V.F.W. convention and not mentioning the failure of the Bush administration on a wide variety of issues.'' The lesson he took was that the party shouldn't get too wrapped up in the issue of the moment. Most of all, from campaign after campaign, and particularly in 2004 from the Dean and Edwards campaigns, Axelrod took the lesson that the problem with failed candidacies isn't usually that the message wasn't shrewd but that ''unless a message authentically reflects the messenger, it's likely to fail.''
 Axelrod says that his model for the Obama campaign came last year when Deval Patrick ran for governor of Massachusetts. There are many ways in which Patrick's run and Obama's are similar: the optimism, the constant presence of the candidate's biography, the combination of a crusading message of reform with the candidate's natural pragmatism, the insistence that normal political categories did not apply, even the same, unofficial slogan, shouted from the crowds -- ''Yes. We. Can!'' But most essential is the way in which both of these campaigns came to use the symbolism that accompanies their candidates' race, not by apologizing for it or ignoring it but by embracing the constant attention paid to the historic nature of the candidacy itself. The Democratic media consultant David Eichenbaum, whose candidate, Chris Gabrieli, lost to Patrick and Axelrod in Massachusetts, told me: ''What they were able to do in the Patrick campaign was similar to what they've been able to do with Obama. The campaign managed to energize the grass roots, but there was a sense of idealism and hope and being able to break that historic barrier that was very unifying and reached out beyond liberals or the base. It became a movement that took on a life of its own.''
 At the beginning of January, on a sunny day in the middle of the Northeast's strange extended warm spell, Axelrod traveled to Boston for Patrick's inaugural. Recounting it for me afterward, he said, ''I really thought a lot about this Obama thing, and I thought, You know, these are really the moments you work for, and I thought, how amazing would it be to be not at the Massachusetts Statehouse but at the U.S. Capitol for that.''III.
 We were in Chicago in January, and it was absurdly unpleasant outside, the sun hanging high above the wind and the chill like a taunt. Axelrod was on a man-in-the-street shoot, a campaign commercial for Axelrod's old friend and client Richard M. Daley, and the first scheduled interviewee, a retired Irish firefighter, had been mocking Axelrod's crew for dressing wrong. ''You need the layers in this cold,'' he announced. ''You need this wickywack stuff.'' (''Gee,'' Axelrod deadpanned, ''I wonder if I'll be able to draw him out.'') This is Axelrod's Chicago, the old ward Democrats, and he started bantering with the guy. The firefighter asked Axelrod about Obama: ''Everybody's raving about him, this new black guy, but he doesn't have any experience. Not everyone's in love with him, you know.'' And the guy grinned, confrontationally, and it just kind of hung there, like race sometimes does in Chicago, somewhere between tolerance and menace.
 This has been Axelrod's career, an eternal return to Chicago and to the politics of race. Axelrod and his sister, Joan, grew up in Manhattan, the children of two Jewish liberals -- a mother who worked as a journalist at PM, a left-wing newspaper of the 1940's, and later ran focus groups for an advertising firm, and a psychologist father. He went to college at the University of Chicago. He found the city familiar-feeling and married a business student named Susan Landau, whom he met while playing co-ed basketball. He has been there ever since.
 Axelrod wasn't the most attentive student; he took so many incompletes in college that he ended up having to finish a quarter of his credits in his last semester. When he was 19, a junior, his father, divorced and living in a Manhattan studio, killed himself, and Axelrod was notified as next of kin. The consultant still has tacked to his wall a fierce self-portrait his father drew in his 20s. Axelrod threw himself into journalism, working after classes at a tiny paper in Hyde Park and covering, among other things, Chicago's roaring, pitted racial politics; he knew who all the aldermen in the city were by the time he graduated. The Chicago Tribune took him on right out of school, sent him to the night desk for a couple of years of hardening and then turned him loose on City Hall. It was 1979, Axelrod was 23 and the whole politics of the city were caught up in the race thing. Axelrod was inclined toward the reformers, even after his great hope, a white mayor named Jane Byrne, turned out to be a hack and a dud. ''I should have known,'' he says. In 1984, Axelrod decided to get into politics himself. He signed on with Simon's senatorial campaign as communications director, became campaign manager and, after Simon won, opened his own shop.
 Axelrod can be a fussy bag of liberal tensions and conflicts. He says he hates the idea that he might become the kind of media-hogging consultant who overshadows his client, but he appears on television in Chicago so frequently that construction workers and subway conductors recognize him on the street. He drives, charmingly and humbly, a Pontiac Vibe, but he also has a vast weekend house in Michigan that makes the reporters who talk to him jealous. This basic tension goes beyond personal style; it runs through his career, and it's the tension of the modern Democratic establishment, caught between its reform origins and the compromises necessary to win power. And it's the conflict of the Daley circle, a bunch of reformers who brought about a restoration of the machine with its attached pathologies.
 ''David Axelrod's mostly been visible in Chicago in the last decade as Daley's public relations strategist and the guy who goes on television to defend Daley from charges of corruption,'' Dick Simpson, a former Chicago alderman who is now chairman of the political science department at the University of Illinois at Chicago, told me. Axelrod sees it a little differently. He says that Daley's election was necessary as a ''moment of racial healing'' and that he is ''proud of the mayor's progressive record.'' 
 Axelrod is known for operating in this gray area, part idealist, part hired muscle. It is difficult to discuss Axelrod in certain circles in Chicago without the matter of the Blair Hull divorce papers coming up. As the 2004 Senate primary neared, it was clear that it was a contest between two people: the millionaire liberal, Hull, who was leading in the polls, and Obama, who had built an impressive grass-roots campaign. About a month before the vote, The Chicago Tribune revealed, near the bottom of a long profile of Hull, that during a divorce proceeding, Hull's second wife filed for an order of protection. In the following few days, the matter erupted into a full-fledged scandal that ended up destroying the Hull campaign and handing Obama an easy primary victory. The Tribune reporter who wrote the original piece later acknowledged in print that the Obama camp had ''worked aggressively behind the scenes'' to push the story. But there are those in Chicago who believe that Axelrod had an even more significant role -- that he leaked the initial story. They note that before signing on with Obama, Axelrod interviewed with Hull. They also point out that Obama's TV ad campaign started at almost the same time. Axelrod swears up and down that ''we had nothing to do with it'' and that the campaign's television ad schedule was long planned. ''An aura grows up around you, and people assume everything emanates from you,'' he told me.
 Today, as Axelrod basks in his profession's highest glory -- shaping a historical presidential campaign -- he is experiencing one of its nastiest turns: in a tiny and ideologically promiscuous world, you often need to go to war with your friends. (If Obama hadn't run, Axelrod says, he would have sat out this presidential race, and he says he told all of his other former clients that early on; he hasn't had much interaction with them since.) There is Dodd, and there is Edwards, but perhaps most poignantly, there is Hillary Clinton. It's a matter of epilepsy. David and Susan Axelrod have three children in their late teens and early 20s. Their eldest, Lauren, has developmental disabilities associated with chronic epileptic seizures and now lives in a group home in Chicago. But for years her illness required enough of her parents' time that it kept Susan Axelrod out of the work force and kept David from moving to Little Rock during the 1992 presidential campaign. Susan and two other mothers of children with epilepsy started a foundation, Citizens United for Research in Epilepsy (CURE), which Susan runs, to promote research and raise funds for a cure. Because of David's political work, they have had political celebrities do fund-raisers: Bill Clinton, Tim Russert, Obama. But few have done as much for the foundation as Hillary Clinton.
 It was January 1999, President Clinton's impeachment trial was just beginning in the Senate and Hillary Clinton was scheduled to speak at the foundation's fund-raiser in Chicago. Despite all the fuss back in Washington, Clinton kept the appointment. She spent hours that day in the epilepsy ward at Rush Presbyterian hospital, visiting children hooked up to machines by electrodes so that doctors might diagram their seizure activity and decide which portion of the brain to remove. At the hospital, a local reporter pressed her about the trial in Washington, asked her about that woman. At the organization's reception at the Drake Hotel that evening, Clinton stood backstage looking over her remarks, figuring out where to insert anecdotes about the kids. ''She couldn't stop talking about what she had seen,'' Susan Axelrod recalled. Later, at Hillary Clinton's behest, the National Institutes of Health convened a conference on finding a cure for epilepsy. Susan Axelrod told me it was ''one of the most important things anyone has done for epilepsy.'' And this is how politics works: David Axelrod is now dedicated to derailing this woman's career.
 ''Life can be tragic,'' Axelrod told me by phone from Chicago the day before Obama officially announced his candidacy, ''but it is important to focus on the moments when it is rapturous.'' Political consultancy is often understood, from a distance, as a science of cynicism, but from up close it can look instead like a ruthless form of love.IV.
 On the second Saturday in February, David and Susan Axelrod drove down to the old Statehouse in Springfield, Ill., to watch Obama officially announce his candidacy for president, giving a speech he had sent to Axelrod for edits at 4 in the morning, two nights before. There was a crowd of more than 15,000 in the square, it was freezing out and Obama looked even skinnier than usual in his big wool coat. Axelrod's cameras roamed through the crowds, interviewing Illinois locals with mustaches and rural accents, who talked about how Obama is ''different,'' ''inspiring.''
 The historic overtones of the speech were unguarded and blunt. Obama mentioned Lincoln half a dozen times. His central theme was the promise of the future, of himself: ''Let's be the generation,'' he said over and over again, that meets the big challenges of the day -- poverty, energy independence, the environment. ''What's stopped us from meeting these challenges,'' he said, ''is the failure of leadership, the smallness of our politics.'' 
 Axelrod says that Obama wrote nearly all of the speech, but there were distinct echoes of Axelrod's previous clients: not just Patrick but also John Edwards's campaign for president in 2004 -- Axelrod was his chief media adviser. Edwards and his message never really took hold. One rival Democratic media consultant told me, ''What I'd like to know about David Axelrod is, What the hell happened with the Edwards campaign?'' Axelrod says the Edwards campaign didn't falter because of the message, ''which was pretty good, it got us pretty far.'' Instead, he points to Edwards: ''I have a whole lot of respect for John, but at some point the candidate has to close the deal and -- I can't tell you why -- that never happened with John.'' 
 But the lingering lesson of the Edwards campaign may be that presidential campaigns are wide open and unpredictable things, dozens of different actors pouring their political convictions into a single vessel, with convictions of his own, and they can slip out of the media consultant's control. In early March, for instance, a minute-long commercial appeared on YouTube attacking Hillary Clinton as a drone out of ''1984,'' showing her speaking on a giant screen in front of a group of zombielike followers -- mimicking the famous Apple commercial -- and purporting to come from the Obama campaign. Close to two million people watched the ad in two weeks, and it moved the Obama message in ways Axelrod hadn't planned. (It later emerged that the ad's creator worked for a company that contracted for the Obama campaign, though the campaign itself wasn't involved.) The spot made Axelrod cranky. ''I didn't think much of it,'' he told me.
 The ad incident came just a month after the campaign's first disruption, when the Hollywood mogul and liberal Obama fund-raiser David Geffen gave an interview to Maureen Dowd, the Times columnist, in which he said that the Clintons lie ''with such ease, it's troubling.'' The Clinton campaign immediately called on Obama's team to repudiate the comments, but they refused, and afterward the two camps volleyed barbs back and forth for a day or so. It was one of those early campaign spats that get endlessly analyzed for who won some minor tactical advantage, but to Axelrod it was a mistake, a self-induced undermining of the transcendent character he spent so long helping to cultivate. The Geffen episode was ''a good object lesson about how easy it is to slide into the morass,'' he told me. ''I'm mindful of the responsibility not to lose our way, not to disappoint, not to sink into the conventional and lose our soul in the process. There are enormous pressures to conform. And to fight a small tactical battle.''
 His friends put it more bluntly. ''What David is going to learn in the course of this presidential campaign,'' Emanuel told me, ''is the economic efficiency of the four-letter word.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Biographer: David Axelrod with Barack Obama in the senator's Capitol Hill office. (Photograph by Jamie Rose)
 Street Fighter: To find out what voters are thinking, Axelrod heads to the political wards of Chicago. (Photograph By Paul D'amato For The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); INTERNET VIDEO (71%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (69%); WORLD WAR II (55%); VETERANS (55%) Presidential Election of 2008; Biographical Information

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); DAVID AXELROD (93%) David Axelrod; Barack (Sen) Obama; Ben Wallace-Wells

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); KENYA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



35 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8A; Column 1; Sports Desk; BASEBALL PREVIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: GLOVES WITHOUT NAMES

BYLINE: By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT

 BODY:
On a warm March afternoon at a Modell's Sporting Goods store on Manhattan's Upper East Side, 39-year-old Angel Valez was, appropriately enough, in a baseball frame of mind.
 He scanned the aisles of the store, looking for the perfect size and color for the glove he planned on purchasing for himself so he could play catch with his 10-year-old son. But as he tested various gloves, and pounded his fist into any number of leather pockets, he did not notice that something from his childhood was missing -- the player autograph, ingrained in the glove's leather palm, that used to romantically announce that the mitt was a major league model.
These days, most of those autographs are gone, a reflection of changing tastes and economics. 
 When Valez was growing old enough to own a glove in the late 1970s, about 70 percent of the gloves on the market came with a major league player's autograph, said Joe Phillips, the editor of The Glove Collector, an online (www.glovecollector.com) and printed newsletter.
 Now, he said, about 80 percent of the gloves on the market lack the signature of a Jim Edmonds or a Derek Jeter. Only lower-end gloves intended for use by younger children still have autographs. For the most part, all people are on their own, free to pick a glove because they like it and not, perhaps, because of the name written on it. Autographs first appeared on gloves when Babe Ruth and Ty Cobb signed their first endorsement deals roughly 90 years ago and had remained a fairly consistent marketing tool through the early 1980s, Phillips said.
 But at that point, he said, the licensing fees for a player's autograph became prohibitively expensive and the number of gloves with autographs dropped to a little more than 50 percent through the mid-1990s.
 And in the last decade, he said, the percentage has continued to decline.
 Denny Whiteside, a project engineer in research and development at the St. Louis headquarters of Rawlings, the sporting goods manufacturer, said that market research in recent years indicated that autographs had little impact on why a person would buy a glove, and could actually hurt sales. The consumer wanted the best-quality glove, not a signature.
 ''As kids got older they wanted a glove that looked just like Derek Jeter's glove, but didn't want anyone's name on it,'' Whiteside said. ''Autographs began to be looked at as a negative, not a positive.''
 Trying to follow demand, Rawlings and other glove manufacturers began to design more and more gloves for teenagers and adults that were without signatures. The one exception, Whiteside said, were the gloves for children under 12, for whom a glove autographed by Jeter still might mean something.
 ''It used to mean something to me,'' said Adam Copeland, a 15-year-old high school baseball player from the Upper East Side, who was shopping in the Modell's store. ''I used to think they were real autographs. Now it is about the feel and the material.''
 Copeland does not have a player autograph on his glove and said only a handful of his teammates at the Trinity School still did. Those that do are not teased, Copeland said, but they are not envied, either.
 In any case, it is not only the changing tastes of customers that have diminished an old baseball staple. The expansion of regional sporting good stores, like Modell's, has also had an impact.
 Tom DeSimone is a baseball buyer for Modell's, which until the late 1990s was primarily based in the New York area. He said he currently buys gloves for stores from New Hampshire to Virginia and finds it too difficult to match specific players to specific markets.
 ''It's easiest to just have a few low-end gloves with a couple of stamped autographs and call it a day because we have so many more stores nationally now,'' DeSimone said. An Alex Rodriguez autograph on a high-quality glove ''only gives a kid in New England more of an excuse not to buy the glove,'' he added.
 ''Why am I going to worry about all these different signatures on gloves?'' he said. ''They don't add anything, they don't help sell more gloves, and they cost more.''
 Although DeSimone said that there were indeed fewer and fewer gloves for sale with major league signatures, his best-selling glove is actually a relatively inexpensive $29.99 Derek Jeter model intended for children under 12.
 Those are the people, young as they are, who still seem drawn to the old-fashioned autograph. After all, they are the ones who are most at liberty to make believe, to stand on the field and look at the signature in their glove, and to then imagine they are a major leaguer. And years from now, they will probably remember that signature, just as Valez did on that warm day in Modell's. 
 Asked about his first glove as a child, Valez recalled that it carried the autograph of Don Gullett, then with the Yankees. ''He was my favorite because of that,'' Valez said. ''When I lost it, I was devastated.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: An unsigned Rawlings glove, left, that sells for nearly $100 at Modell's and a Derek Jeter model that costs $29.99. (Photo by Earl Wilson/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); ATHLETES (72%); PRODUCT ENDORSEMENTS (64%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (63%); GLOVE & MITTEN MFG (58%) Baseball; Sporting Goods

PERSON: DEREK JETER (89%) Michael S Schmidt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



36 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg at a Checkpoint: 1,000 Days Left on the Job

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
''The Hundred Days is indelibly associated with Franklin D. Roosevelt, and the Thousand Days with John F. Kennedy,'' the historian Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. wrote last year -- neat time frames that defined the breathtaking debut of the New Deal and, as it turned out, just about the entire tenure of the New Frontier. 
 In 2002, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg approached his first such benchmark rather modestly. 
''What did I do in the first 100 days?'' he asked rhetorically at the time. ''I think the answer is I got ready for the next 1,000.'' Then he went on to award his administration ''an A-plus for the things that matter: Set the tone and pick the team.''
 Five years later, with much of the same team still in place, but the tone considerably more self-confident and accomplished, the mayor has embraced an audacious managerial strategy in an effort to expand and preserve his legacy. 
 In a prominent corner (near the pantry) of the second-floor bullpen at City Hall where he and his inner circle work, a red digital clock beneath a sign that urges ''Make Every Day Count'' ticks off the days, minutes and seconds remaining in Mr. Bloomberg's second term. 
 This week, the countdown clock will signal a milestone: The beginning of the final 1,000 days of the Bloomberg administration. ''We have a lot to do, and the countdown clock is a very real reminder,'' Stu Loeser, the mayor's spokesman, said. ''The mayor believes it's not time to slow down. It's time to speed up.''
 By this point in his second term, a mayor -- particularly one barred by term limits from seeking re-election -- might well be thinking ahead to his next job or retirement and contemplating which sinecures to reserve for his cronies. 
 But Mr. Bloomberg, who successfully challenged political precedent in the first place by winning the mayoralty without having held another elective office, is intent on leaving City Hall on his own terms. 
 He has arguably preserved, or even enhanced, his power by refusing to flatly rule out the possibility of a 2008 presidential run. But because higher elective office remains unlikely, he is not hobbled by the inevitable competition between governing and pursuing a political agenda. 
 ''He's not spending the time running for the next office, which is often what influences a second term,'' said Steve Malanga, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative research group.
 The mayor has said he intends to disburse a billion dollars or more through a personal foundation, which means he will remain a presence to be courted and reckoned with in New York and beyond. 
 Just last week, in collaboration with Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker -- herself term-limited and hoping for the mayor's endorsement to succeed him -- Mr. Bloomberg signed a bill requiring that any future benefits for married people working for the city also be granted to domestic partners and that businesses that use bicycle delivery workers provide them with helmets.
 ''They're doing a lot of this stuff statutorily so it is more difficult to undo,'' said Douglas A. Muzzio, a professor of public affairs at Baruch College.
 The mayor also began an incentive program to reduce poverty by paying poor families up to $5,000 a year to meet goals like attending parent-teacher conferences, going for a medical checkup or holding down a full-time job. The idea is just an experiment for now, using private donations (including his own), though the mayor hopes to attract public money if it proves effective. His administration also is taking steps to blunt opposition when mayoral control of the school system comes up for legislative renewal in 2009. 
 Mr. Bloomberg has embraced the strategic economic development agenda advanced by Daniel L. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development, including his ambitious campaign to prepare now for a bigger, older and environmentally more unpredictable city in 2030. 
 ''I don't remember a mayor as focused on the long term as Bloomberg is,'' Professor Muzzio said. 
 The administration's unfinished agenda includes mass transit construction, including the extension of the Flushing line to the Far West Side; creating or preserving (or at least financing and finding sites for) 125,000 more homes and tens of thousands of classrooms, improving the power supply, reclaiming underused contaminated land, opening the waterfront and harbor to recreation, rezoning for housing and commercial development in Manhattan, Queens and Brooklyn, enacting a new building code and advancing projects like Brooklyn Bridge Park, a recreation area at the former Fresh Kills landfill and development of the Atlantic Yards in Brooklyn.
 When he first took office, Mr. Bloomberg embraced much of the agenda of his predecessor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, but did not follow it in lockstep. He returned power to business improvement districts, undid stadium deals with the Yankees and Mets, restored the city bar association's role in recommending judges for reappointment and symbolically designated the Tweed Courthouse, behind City Hall, as a school and the headquarters of his new Department of Education, rather than as a home for the Museum of the City of New York. 
 About that time, Fred Siegel, a history professor at Cooper Union, forecast that the endurance of Mr. Giuliani's legacy would depend on whether he had fundamentally transformed what New Yorkers expect from city government. Five years later, Professor Siegel says he is comfortable that the Giuliani administration's changes in welfare and policing will, indeed, endure. 
 Similarly, he predicted, ''the sense that New York is not an ungovernable city will endure after Bloomberg.''
 Ms. Quinn, the Council speaker, said she was unconcerned that Mr. Bloomberg's successor would find his, or her, hands tied. 
 ''I don't know that you can ever assure that a successor will follow in the same footsteps, but if you leave a city better than you found it, what mayor isn't going to want to go in that direction,'' she said. ''You can de facto assure your legacy will continue because what mayor would get rid of what New Yorkers like and works well?'' 
 She contrasted New York today with the more fragile city that Mr. Bloomberg inherited after 2001. ''If you're lucky enough to not start in a place like that, it's really a gift,'' Ms. Quinn said. ''It's a sense of stability from which you can continue your predecessor's work and implement your own vision.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: A mounted digital clock on the second floor at City Hall counts down the time remaining in Mayor Bloomberg's second term. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HISTORY (89%); CITIES (89%); TERM LIMITS (76%); CONSERVATISM (62%) Watches and Clocks

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Sam Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



37 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: Despite Spitzer's Election Mandate, First Budget Proves a Humbling One

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: ALBANY, Sunday, April 1 

 BODY:
During his campaign for governor, Eliot Spitzer spoke frequently about the need to rein in state spending and to change the way New York's government works. ''Day 1, Everything Changes'' was his oft-repeated slogan.
 In the last few days, as the poetry of campaigning gave way to the prose of getting a budget passed, Mr. Spitzer, who won his election in a landslide, invoked another phrase: ''Rome wasn't built in a day.''
The new governor adopted his newly humble tone after he made a number of concessions to get the State Legislature to adopt his budget by the April 1 deadline. Lawmakers returned to the Capitol on Saturday and began passing the $120.9 billion budget -- but last-minute negotiations and delays meant that some of the bills could not be passed until Sunday morning. 
 But the spending plan they began passing differed in key respects from the proposal Mr. Spitzer presented made in January. 
 The Legislature added more than $700 million in new spending to the governor's proposal, which had already increased spending by more than twice the rate of inflation. 
 Lawmakers put back some of the health care spending he had fought to cut. They also blunted some of the impact of his plan to direct most new education spending to New York City and other so-called high-needs districts when they added money for schools on Long Island and in other well-off districts.
 Governor Spitzer acknowledged that his first budget was bigger than he would have liked. But he said that the budget achieves all three of his main objectives: creating a school aid formula that would direct most of a record spending increase to high-needs districts; curbing the growth of Medicaid by nearly $1 billion and directing spending toward patients, not institutions; and making sure that more than $1 billion in property tax relief was focused on the middle class. 
 On top of that, the governor won some thorny political battles, including approval of a measure that will double the number of charter schools. Mr. Spitzer said that he would be in a better position to curb spending next year. But if recent history is any guide, the power of governors and mayors to curb spending and push through big changes diminishes after their first year in office. 
 When Gov. George E. Pataki took office in 1995, after a close election that no one mistook for a mandate, he faced a $5 billion budget gap. He managed to close the deficit, push through a big income tax cut and actually freeze state spending in his first budget. It was in his later years that Mr. Pataki let budgets balloon. 
 Governor Spitzer, by contrast, took office with nearly 70 percent of the vote, a mandate of historic proportions. His main opponents in this year's budget battle, the Senate Republicans, were weakened politically by having lost several seats in recent elections, and by the news that their majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, was being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation over his business dealings. 
 It was a dynamic that led lawmakers in both parties, and some political analysts, to say that they had expected Governor Spitzer's first budget to shake things up more. 
 ''Walking in with a 70 percent majority, it seems like an awful lot of mandate produced a mouse,'' said Douglas A. Muzzio, a professor of public affairs at Baruch College.
 The Legislature, which has grown more powerful than ever in recent years, showed that it was not about to roll over for a new governor, mandate or no.
 Lawmakers even rejected some of Governor Spitzer's pet projects. They gutted a proposal, which he had campaigned on, to make high-speed Internet access available across the state. They rejected his call to require a deposit on cans and bottles of noncarbonated drinks. They blocked his plan to create a commission to study whether some of New York's prisons should close, now that there are fewer inmates. 
 During much of the session, Democrats tried to divide or conquer the Republican majority in the State Senate. Mr. Spitzer campaigned heavily in a special Senate election on Long Island that cost the Republicans a seat. Democrats then spoke about trying to get a couple of Republicans to switch parties, which would have given them control. When that failed, there was talk that some individual Republicans might break ranks on the budget vote.
 It did not happen. As a result, the Republicans were able to address many of their concerns, from sending more school aid to Long Island to altering Mr. Spitzer's middle-class property tax break so that some wealthier homeowners could qualify.
 The experience left the Republicans feeling a little cocky. 
 After Mr. Bruno was asked on Friday what he had learned about the new governor from their first budget negotiation together, he smiled broadly. ''What have I learned?'' he asked. ''The question is, 'What has he learned?' ''
 Senator Dean G. Skelos, a Nassau County Republican, joined the conversation. ''Didn't a very famous president once say, 'I forgive his youth and inexperience'? '' he said, paraphrasing President Ronald Reagan's quip during a debate with Walter F. Mondale. 
 The governor was clearly stung by the criticisms, and particularly by comparisons with his predecessor's first budget. 
 At a briefing with reporters on Friday, Mr. Spitzer said that he had been able to enact 73 percent of the Medicaid spending reductions -- nearly a billion dollars -- that he had called for this year. In 1995, he said, Mr. Pataki had been able to get only 17 percent of the Medicaid cuts he called for, or $211 million. (Of course, Mr. Pataki's budget froze spending overall.)
 As the Legislature began approving the first budget bills late Saturday, Governor Spitzer proclaimed victory. His first budget, he noted, would provide heath insurance for the state's 400,000 uninsured children. 
 It contains agreements on issues that have eluded Albany's leaders for years: it provides money for stem cell research, doubles the number of charter schools in the state, and includes a new law that will provide financial incentives for whistleblowers to report Medicaid fraud. 
 ''We're getting the sorts of reforms that had long been thought impossible,'' the governor said. 
 Still, a $120.9 billion spending plan is a big budget for someone who campaigned for fiscal austerity and who complained as a candidate that last year's budget -- about $113.5 billion -- was ''faith-based'' because it counted on revenues that might not come in.
 And after spending months talking about changing paradigms in Albany and pushing through new laws that had been tough to negotiate, Mr. Spitzer may have raised expectations for his first budget that were hard to meet. 
 But the governor said he was more than satisfied. 
 ''I understand the Legislature is going to say, we got A, B and C,'' the governor said. ''Some of what they got, they got because they made powerful arguments, some of it is because compromise was the essence of dealings between a legislature and an executive branch.
 ''We compromised no more than we thought was right or appropriate,'' he said, ''to accomplish the twin objectives of both timeliness and the policy pursuits we sought.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: With more time to prepare, Gov. Eliot Spitzer says he will be in a better position to curb spending next year. (Photo by Nathaniel Brooks for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MEDICAID (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); APPROVALS (76%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (76%); POETRY (72%); PROPERTY TAX (66%); TAX RELIEF (66%); INCOME TAX (61%); INFLATION (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%) Medicine and Health; Medicaid; Education and Schools; Property Taxes; Taxation

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (93%) Eliot (Gov) Spitzer; Michael Cooper

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



38 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Editorial Observer; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: After an Anti-Immigrant Flare-Up, Texas Gets Back to Business

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex. 

 BODY:
Everybody said that the nation's anti-immigrant fever was going to spread to Texas this year. 
 State lawmakers entered the new legislative session with dozens of bills whose anti-immigrant passions ranged from warm to extra hot. They wanted to tax money transfers to Latin America and to sue the federal government for money spent on border enforcement. One even fired a broadside at the 14th Amendment, seeking to deny the benefits of citizenship to Texas-born children of illegal immigrants. Their goal seemed to be to make immigrants' lives as miserable as possible, and to howl at Washington for not fixing the mess.
Meanwhile, an energetic cohort of grass-roots advocates and legislators, Latino and otherwise, stood ready to challenge the hard-liners at every step. A bonfire loomed. 
 But last week something strange and encouraging happened. The Legislature took a big step back from the immigration fight, as an unusual alliance rose up in support of humane, sensible reform. 
 The powerful Republican chairman of the State Affairs Committee, David Swinford, declared that most of the immigration bills were constitutionally flawed, needlessly divisive and a waste of time, so he was not going to let them come to the floor. Some members were left spluttering -- ''Everything we do here is divisive,'' said Representative Leo Berman, author of the birthright citizenship challenge and other harsh bills. But that was all he could do.
 Mr. Berman, an affable Republican from East Texas, says that Mexico is the world's most corrupt country and that its citizens are infecting us with their law-breaking culture and with tuberculosis and leprosy. He has many friends in the Capitol, which is nobody's idea of an immigrant-amnesty zone.
 But the convictions gripping him have been eclipsed by something deeper in the Texas soul.
 That would be business.
 Mr. Swinford said he had consulted the state attorney general and concluded that most of the immigration bills would not survive court scrutiny. Never mind that some sponsors were well aware of their bills' technical flaws and were itching to attract lawsuits anyway. Mr. Swinford clearly had no appetite for crusading or grandstanding, and decisively put a lid on things.
 ''We've got business to do,'' he told me. ''We can't be fighting and get our business done.''
 He was talking about efficiency. But his words could have been taken from the mouths of the powerful Texas Republicans who have entered the debate squarely on the side of comprehensive reform -- that blend of border toughness and pro-immigrant fairness that Republicans elsewhere deride as ''amnesty.'' 
 The story dates to last year. It has to do, as Megan Headley wrote in The Texas Observer, with pro-business Republicans realizing that anti-immigrant fervor ''threatened to purge Texas of the workers that pluck chickens, build houses, and make some people very rich.'' 
 Their attention was grabbed last April, when a Democratic representative, Rafael Anchia, tacked a provocative amendment onto a bill raising business taxes to finance property-tax relief. It would have forbidden employers to cut their taxes by deducting wages of illegal workers. 
 Mr. Anchia wanted to send the message that any crackdown on illegal immigrants would be met, blow for blow, with bills going after their employers.
 That got Mr. Anchia a visit from Bill Hammond, president of the Texas Association of Business, one of the state's most powerful lobby groups. An alliance was born. 
 Mr. Hammond is now standing beside the likes of the American Civil Liberties Union, the National Council of La Raza and the Equal Justice Center as a member of Texas Residents United for a Stronger Texas, or Trust. 
 The group recently sent the Legislature and governor a 15-point statement of principles on immigration reform. It urges economic development in Texas and in Latin America. It argues for cultural diversity, bilingual education and in-state tuition for illegal immigrant children. And it denounces enforcement bills of the sort piled up by the dozen in Austin.
 Mr. Swinford represents an agricultural district with a lot to lose from attacks on immigrant labor. (It's home to a Swift meat plant recently raided by federal agents.) But he insists he did not stifle any bills at the behest of big business. 
 Maybe not, but he has certainly made it happy. The same week that Mr. Swinford announced that the problematic bills in his committee would die there, like the hoof-and-mouth cattle slaughtered in ''Hud,'' Mr. Hammond stood with Mr. Anchia on the Capitol steps to unveil an ad campaign urging Congress to pass comprehensive immigration reform, including a path to citizenship. 
 The ads were created by another new alliance, Texas Employers for Immigration Reform, which includes the Texas Association of Business and executives like Bo Pilgrim, the Pilgrim's Pride chicken magnate. Its Web site, www.txeir.org, makes some of the staunchest arguments for comprehensive immigration reform you'll ever hear from rich Republican donors and power players. 
 This Texas pragmatism has not taken hold elsewhere. Not in Washington, where Republicans are laying out hard-core positions against ''amnesty.'' Not in states like Georgia, Florida and South Carolina, which are steaming ahead with harsh agendas.
 But here, at least for now, powerful forces have come to understand -- whether through warm feelings for workers or, more likely, cold self-interest -- that in attacking immigrants, Texas is attacking itself.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); BORDER CONTROL (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); WRITERS (70%); TUBERCULOSIS (63%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (88%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2007



39 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: Thousands Are Laid Off. What's New?

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR

 BODY:
When executives at Circuit City decided last Wednesday to cut costs by laying off 3,400 of their most experienced salesclerks, they undoubtedly went through a number of calculations: that they could save $250 million over two years; that consumers are inured to bad service; and that the layoffs would be a one-day blip in the news. 
 They were right about the last part. After hearing a fairly expansive report on public radio's Marketplace late Wednesday, I woke up the next morning eager to read more. 
USA Today ran a short article on the front page, The Wall Street Journal ran a brief on B4, The New York Times published a wire report inside its business pages, while The Washington Post and The Los Angeles Times gave the news a bit more room. 
 Only the piece in The Baltimore Sun really explored the broader implications, while most of the coverage stuck to the usual suspects and themes. There were a few quick mentions on the evening news, but I saw no cable-talk umbrage at what this meant. And the next day, it was yesterday's news. 
 Media outlets could not be blamed for having a little fatigue when it comes to layoffs, which have become an organic part of American life. With Detroit laying off more than 70,000 people in the last few years, the approximately 8 percent of Circuit City's work force who got the heave-ho as a result of a ''wage management initiative'' -- yet another advance in corporate-speak -- do not seem like a big deal. (Nor did the news have legs on Wall Street, apparently. On Friday, Circuit City closed at $18.53, down 25 cents from the week before.) 
 But there are larger issues here. Circuit City, pushed by other big retailers and the consumer's desire for low prices, could not compete. So they fired the cream of their work force, not even giving those employees a chance to re-apply immediately for their job at lower wages until after a cooling-off period of 10 weeks. In doing so, the company engaged in a kind of domestic outsourcing. 
 ''The fact that this was a nonstory is as emblematic of our times as the firings themselves,'' said Harley Shaiken, a professor who teaches labor issues at the University of California, Berkeley. ''What makes this troubling is that this is not an auto parts supplier in Michigan under global pressure; this is a retail giant jettisoning its most experienced workers because it is under pressure from the Best Buy across the street. That is a big story.''
 In the 1980s and '90s, the heroic narrative of business reporting began to focus on executives, in which a new pantheon -- executives like Jeff Bezos, Bill Gates and, um, Jeffrey K. Skilling -- were touted as beings who had left the gravitational pull of traditional economics. 
 Even now, the corner office is where reporters usually go when it's time to cover business. According to Christopher R. Martin, an associate professor of journalism at Miami University, of the top 25 newspapers in the country, only four have reporters assigned to the labor beat. 
 ''Newspapers have shifted from going after mass audiences to targeting upscale audiences. This is a great story,'' Mr. Martin said, referring to the Circuit City layoffs, ''but it's about working people. There have been dual wage systems before, but here you have something completely different -- the wholesale firing of people who did their jobs well.''
 Last summer, I needed some gadgets for a multimedia project, so I walked in to a Best Buy. A young man walked me around the floor, assembling a bag of components before promising me that it would all work. It did and I've been back to Best Buy twice since then, not because I checked prices, but because I knew they had well-priced merchandise with knowledgeable sales help. 
 Circuit City seems to have forgotten that the customer interaction -- the user interface, to use contemporary language -- is their point of difference in an age when consumers can have perfect pricing information with the click of a mouse. ''In a service economy where all the books say you are supposed to put the customer first, Circuit City is doing exactly the opposite,'' Mr. Martin said.
 True, these aren't the kind of union jobs with benefits and wages that made America what it is today. But increasingly, America is nation of clerks -- not adolescents in their first jobs, but heads of households struggling to get by on the desiccated compensation that working in retail provides. Newsrooms, which should know something about layoffs, have trouble fathoming that many people work in retail because it is the only work they can find.
 In a bit of happy coincidence, The New York Times did have an article on Thursday in its business section demonstrating that the top 300,000 Americans had almost as much income as the bottom 150 million Americans. The explanation was just a flip of the page away in the brief about Circuit City.
 The Circuit City pratfall does have an executive level narrative as well: if you add up salary, bonus, stock options, and other perks, Philip J. Schoonover, chief executive, and W. Alan McCollough, chairman, received almost $10 million in various kinds of compensation last year for steering the company to its imperiled state.
 Circuit City retains a rhetorical commitment to the people it just axed on its Web site: ''Our associates are our greatest assets. We expect every associate to demonstrate that they respect and value others for their efforts, their knowledge and the diversity that they bring.'' 
 By Thursday, there was a lot less of that to go around. But it's clear the only time the clerk at a big-box store is going to get any ink is when he fetches you a replacement cartridge for your printer. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); RETAILERS (89%); STRIKES (77%); OUTSOURCING (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (50%) Electronics; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; News and News Media

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (70%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); WASHINGTON POST CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Circuit City Stores Inc

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

PERSON: JEFFREY P BEZOS (50%) David Carr

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2007



40 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: China Says New U.S. Duty Disrupts Relations

BYLINE: By DAVID LAGUE

DATELINE: HONG KONG, April 1 

 BODY:
China has called on the Bush administration to reverse a decision to impose steep duties on Chinese exports of coated paper, state-controlled news media reported during the weekend. 
 The Commerce Ministry issued a strong protest over the measures announced on Friday, which some American industry officials have suggested could be the first step in imposing tariffs on a wide range of manufactured imports from China, including steel, textiles, plastics and machinery.
''This action of the U.S. side goes against the consensus reached by the leaders of both countries to resolve disputes through dialogue,'' the official New China News Agency quoted a Commerce Ministry spokesman, Wang Xinpei, as having said. ''China strongly requires the United States to reconsider the decision and make prompt changes.''
 Since the Democrats won control of Congress in November, the Bush administration has come under intensified pressure to curb the trade imbalance with China.
 The American trade deficit with China reached a record $233 billion in 2006, and influential lawmakers and industry groups say the imbalance continues to widen as China aggressively subsidizes exports.
 Carlos M. Gutierrez, the secretary of commerce, said that preliminary duties of 10.9 percent to 20.35 percent would be applied to coated paper imports from China to counter the subsidies received by the manufacturers of these products.
 The Commerce Department said in a statement that the volume of imports of coated paper from China last year increased by 177 percent from 2005 and were valued around $224 million.
 The move to impose duties as a penalty for Chinese subsidies is something of a departure from American practice over more than two decades. Washington had refrained from applying these sanctions on imports from so-called nonmarket economies like China, where it was difficult to calculate the value of government assistance to industry.
 Instead, it relied on antidumping actions to combat what it said were unfair Chinese trade practices.
 Mr. Wang said that the Commerce Department had ignored strong objections from China in breaking with its previous policy, the official press agency reported.
 ''The decision brings great harm to the interests and feelings of Chinese business people and is not acceptable,'' Mr. Wang added.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (90%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (78%); EXPORT PROMOTION (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); PAPER & PACKAGING (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); IMPORT CONTROLS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%) Paper and Pulp; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%)

PERSON: CARLOS GUTIERREZ (58%) George W (Pres) Bush; David Lague

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); HONG KONG (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2007



41 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; METROPOLITAN DIARY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 740 words

 BODY:
DEAR DIARY:
 Working at the information desk of the Intrepid Sea, Air and Space Museum, we received requests for information not only about the aircraft carrier and other exhibits in the museum complex but also about the city itself.
 One day a young couple approached and asked me how to get to Greenwich Village. Using both subway and bus maps, I gave detailed instructions, adding that not only was the Village a charming place for an evening walk, but that it also had a wide variety of wonderful, inexpensive restaurants. 
They listened attentively and then asked if there was anything else they should see while they were downtown.
 I asked if they had been to Chinatown, and they said they had not. Again using the maps, I encouraged them to go, again assuring them that they would love the sights and the abundance of excellent and inexpensive Chinese food. 
 They thanked me, and as they turned to go I asked, ''So, where are you from?''
 The response: Staten Island.
 Marjorie MillerNEW YORK DINERS'QUANDARY
 That tiny bistro prepares pike quenelles and hickory-grilled fish,
 And the Tea Room presents beluga, that classy, pricey dish -- 
 Steak houses serve up prime, aged beef with gobs of sauce bearnaise,
 While near the river, facing Brooklyn, menus feature bouillabaisse.
 Sashimi, linguine, rotelli, cassoulet,
 Mascarpone, chicken tikka, entrecote, duck pate,
 Pizza, paella, olives (kalamata), 
 Vinaigrette, mignonette, radicchio, frittata.
 The problem: Where to go and what to spend when dining out;
 The economical solution: ''Hold the mustard, extra kraut.''
 Stephen J. KudlessDear Diary:
 I was walking with my friend Karen down Broadway when suddenly at 88th Street she stopped, gasped and brought her hand to her chest. She was staring across the street. 
 ''A Dunkin' Donuts,'' she said, in pleasant disbelief. ''We needed a Dunkin' Donuts.''
 Me: ''Why? How far away is the next closest Dunkin' Donuts?''
 Karen: ''Ninety-fifth Street.''
 Me: ''Don't you live on 92nd? Why wouldn't you go to that one?''
 Karen: ''I don't walk UPtown!''
 Laurie AdelmanDear Diary:
 As more people tried to squeeze into the last possible crevices of a particularly crowded Flushing-bound 7 train during the evening commute, few passengers were in good moods.
 That is, until we all heard in a drily sarcastic voice over the subway announcement system: ''This train is full. Please wait for the next one. There is another train behind us with empty seats, carpeting and color TV.'' Cheryl ChanDear Diary:
 On a recent trip heading east on the 23rd Street crosstown bus, I was seated near a gregarious woman. She held animated conversations with all the individuals who successively sat next to her. After the last of her new friends left the bus, she turned to have a conversation with me. 
 Within the next few moments she asked me if I lived in Peter Cooper Village. When I told her I did not, she countered with: ''Are you sure? You look like someone who would live in Peter Cooper Village.'' Marilyn BurkhardtDear Diary:
 The scene: Approaching Bergen Street during the after-work rush hour on an F train in Brooklyn.
 A woman, probably from the Caribbean and needing directions, asked, ''Is the train going to Broadway-Lafayette?''
 A helpful fellow passenger answered: ''You missed it. You have to transfer at the next stop for a train back to Manhattan.''
 But other passengers started worrying aloud that it is not possible to cross over to the other side for the next few stops. One passenger noted that you could indeed transfer to the other side at the south end of the Carroll Street station. A lively discussion among helpful strangers ensued.
 In the meantime the lost passenger started giving more details about her desired destination. ''I want to go to BAM. Isn't this near BAM?''
 ''Oh, you want to go to the Brooklyn Academy of Music?''
 ''Yes. Lafayette.''
 ''Oh, THAT Lafayette!''
 Upon hearing that, several voices chimed in at once: 
 ''Transfer for the G next stop.'' 
 ''No, she has to go back the other way on the G.'' 
 ''But it's hard to transfer to the other side at Smith and Ninth.''
 ''No, she needs go to Pacific Street.''
 Finally, one person took the Caribbean lady firmly in hand and loudly proclaimed to her (and the rest of us): ''I'm a native New Yorker. I know where you're going. I'll take you there. Come on.''
 And with that they exited the F together. Guenevere Knowles

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lars Leetaru) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); BEEF (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (67%)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (67%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2007



42 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: 4 Years Later, 'Smart Growth' Is Still Elusive At Hospital Site

BYLINE: By JANNY SCOTT

DATELINE: WINGDALE, N.Y., March 26 

 BODY:
The remains of the state mental hospital languish in this bucolic stretch of the Harlem Valley like a ghost town, an eerie compound of empty dormitories and overgrown fields that was once a community of 10,000 with its own bowling alley, baseball diamond, ice cream shop, fire company, farm and train station two hours north of New York City.
 When the state closed the Harlem Valley Psychiatric Center in 1994, town officials set out to turn the 850-acre campus into a model of enlightened development. With a compact town center a short walk from the train, the new neighborhood would be an antidote to sprawl, the sort of ''smart growth'' that planners say the region must embrace if it is to remain livable.
But nearly four years after a development company paid $3.9 million for the property, the town and the developer have yet to agree on a plan for what would be the largest residential development ever in Dutchess County. The town says the developer is stubbornly resisting its vision; the developer says the town board is stubbornly denying hard economic facts. 
 The long struggle over the project illustrates many of the difficulties in carrying out smart growth at a time when the region's population is expected to grow by three to four million over the next 25 years -- a trend that provoked calls for a reduction in the region's reliance on single-family homes in favor of something more pedestrian-friendly, dense and compact.
 ''If it's hard to do it here, it's hard to do it anywhere,'' said Joel Russell, the town's planning consultant, who believes the site is well suited for the project because it already has buildings, sewer and water lines and access to transit. ''To me, it represents an ideal site with appropriate zoning for this kind of development.''
 The site lies in the hamlet of Wingdale in the town of Dover, population 8,600, a former farming community giving way to subdivisions full of people who commute as much as two hours to work. The closing of the hospital, with 5,000 residents and 5,000 employees at its peak, left a crater in the local economy, creating both a need and an opportunity for economic development.
 So, in redoing its zoning in the late 1990s, the town focused on the hospital campus around the station for growth. It created incentives to encourage higher-density, mixed-use development and to protect open space. Offices and stores would be intermingled with housing in careful balance; the business tax base would grow, offsetting the rising cost of services.
 By concentrating the development and reusing many of the 80 existing red-brick buildings while allowing some lower-density housing, like single-family homes, in outlying areas, the town hoped to protect the forested slopes that rise to the east as well as large areas of wetland, a breeding ground for a threatened species, the bog turtle.
 The Benjamin Companies, a Long Island development company that has redeveloped two other former psychiatric hospital sites in New York, bought the property in October 2003. It submitted its first site plan a year later -- a plan that Roger P. Akeley, the commissioner of planning and redevelopment for Dutchess County, calls ''a pattern for sprawl. It had little cul-de-sac roads all over the site.''
 ''They started off on the wrong foot because the vision was so out of step with what the zoning ordinance had outlined,'' said Mr. Akeley, commissioner for the past 23 years. ''I think there must have been certain assumptions about the town and its willingness to compromise rather quickly on its principles. They just didn't read the town right.''
 Over the next two years, the developers and the town board met constantly; environmental and economic consultants were brought in. At the town's insistence, the developer hired a well-known urban design firm, Torti Gallas & Partners, experienced in developing walkable, transit-oriented, mixed-use communities in keeping with the design philosophy known as New Urbanism that the town board had endorsed.
 By late 2006, the town, the developer and Torti Gallas were holding monthly technical workshops, developing an alternative that was presented on Dec. 19 and amended in January. While the new plan went a long way toward meeting the town board's requirements, the board informed the Benjamin Companies in February that it did not go far enough.
 ''We were very disappointed, very frustrated,'' Michael D. Zarin, a lawyer for the developer, said in an interview. He said: ''You can't come into this thing with preconceived notions. You can't say, 'We did zoning in 1999; this is what we want,' and leave it at that. A partnership means you work together, you clean the slate some, you engage in hard, good planning and then you do what you need to do to make a successful and feasible project.''
 But Jill Way, 50, a lifelong resident who has served as the elected town supervisor since 1996, said, ''The town board owes it to citizens to try to get what they're asking for.''
 Ms. Way, who presides over a five-member board that includes two Corrections Department employees, a college professor and the owner of a tree service, said the current plan, with nearly 1,400 housing units (more than half would be within a half-mile of the train station), includes too much housing and not enough commercial space to attract the ''destination retailers'' and economic benefit the board has in mind.
 She said too few of the housing units are reserved for older people -- who, without young children, cost towns less. The plan includes too many ''hamlet centers,'' splitting the community in parts, she said. A long, looping road fragments the wildlife habitat; there are homes on slopes, and too many of the old buildings would be demolished rather than reused, she said.
 Mr. Zarin countered that clustering even more of the housing around the train station would produce a neighborhood that would be too dense. He said market analyses showed there is not enough demand to support more commercial space yet, and there is neither the population size nor the demographic characteristics needed to attract destination stores.
 Market analysis also showed there is insufficient demand for ''three-story walk-up townhouses'' to justify renovating more of the existing buildings, said Russell A. Mohr, vice president of real estate development for the Benjamin Companies. Nor is there enough demand among people over 55 to justify increasing the percentage of the housing that would be age-restricted, he said.
 One big fear on the part of the town board is that the developer might start with the easiest part, building single-family homes in outlying open space, then quit before doing the rest. The developers, however, say the infrastructure costs for the open areas are so high, they cannot ''make a penny'' until they redevelop the center, too. 
 The developers have repeatedly taken their case to the public in meetings, open houses and color brochures, most recently featuring a dreamy scene of life at what they call the Knolls of Dover. The announcement of a meeting in late February at the high school cafeteria began, ''Dear Neighbor: We know you are very frustrated with the slow progress in redeveloping the former Harlem Valley Psychiatric Center in Wingdale. So are we.''
 Ms. Way, up for re-election this fall along with two other members of the town board, said, ''There is a concerted effort to apply public pressure and political pressure to this town board right now because we have a huge election coming up.'' She accused the developer of trying to divide the town, a place where she said she intends to continue living long after the developers leave.
 Barbara A. Clay, a lawyer for MasterCard International who moved to Dover in 2001, said public opinion is mixed. Meetings about the project have drawn hundreds of residents.
 ''The bulk of people don't understand and want answers,'' she said. ''Some people are on the side of the developer because no one has done anything in 10 years. The developer is definitely playing the public. The town board is afraid they'll get run out of town. I feel bad for them. Because they're holding the line.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Officials and a developer have clashed over plans for the site of the closed Harlem Valley Psychiatric Center. (Photographs by Christopher Capozziello for The New York Times)
 A draft for the 850-acre property, which would be the largest residential development in Dutchess County. (pg. B5)Map of New York highlighting The Knolls of Dover. (pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (77%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (77%); TRAINS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); SUBURBS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); ICE CREAM (72%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); BASEBALL (57%); BOWLING CENTERS (57%) Housing; Area Planning and Renewal; Zoning

ORGANIZATION: Benjamin Co

PERSON: Janny Scott

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Wingdale (NY); Wingdale (NY)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2007



43 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 297 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and South Korea Reach Trade Deal

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Monday, April 2 

 BODY:
South Korea and the United States reached a bilateral deal on Monday that could increase their annual $72 billion trade by more than $20 billion, the South Korean president's office confirmed. 
 The deal follows nine months of talks between the United States and Asia's third largest economy. Details were not announced.
Time had almost run out as the announcement came. The urgency centered around the need for an agreement to reach the American Congress by midnight on Sunday, while the White House can still use fast-track trade legislation, which expires on June 30, to negotiate trade pacts that Congress may approve or reject but not alter.
 South Korean officials have said the most contentious issues were agriculture, including beef and oranges, and autos.
 Each side wanted the other to lower tariff and other barriers to auto imports. The United States had demanded that South Korea -- whose consumers pay among the world's highest prices for their food -- open its tightly protected farm market to American beef imports.
 Beef was not strictly part of the talks but had become closely linked. South Korea used to be a major market for American beef until it banned imports in 2002 due to cases of mad cow disease in the United States.
 South Korea said in September that it would resume imports provided that beef parts it deemed risky, like bones, were not included.
 Seoul had rejected an American demand to put in writing when it will fully clear American beef quarantine issues.
 Some estimates say an agreement could add $20 billion to the already more than $70 billion of two-way trade each year.
 Negotiators had seemed on the verge of signing a deal after Presidents Bush and Roh Moo-hyun agreed last week to instruct their negotiators to be as flexible as possible.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEEF (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (76%); IMPORT CONTROLS (75%); FOOD PRICES (74%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (74%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); APPROVALS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (74%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); ASIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2007



44 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: California Seeks to Ban Investment in Iran

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, April 1 

 BODY:
It is the kind of political movement that fits handily on a bumper sticker: Divest Iran.
 Over the past year, one state, Missouri, has opted to do just that, while several others, including New Jersey, have also begun to write or to consider legislation to divest.
But the nascent movement took on decidedly more weight last week with the preliminary success of a bill in the California Legislature. The measure would force two of the nation's largest pension funds -- devoted to the state's public employees and its teachers, with combined holdings of nearly $400 billion -- to remove their money from any foreign company doing business in Iran. American companies are already barred from such dealings. 
 The author, Assemblyman Joel Anderson, a Republican from San Diego County, said the bill was meant to protect the $24 billion he estimates the two funds currently have invested in international companies with ties to Iran. Mr. Anderson said his concern was Iran's potential economic instability, not its current standoff with the West.
 ''They've got a president that is talking one day about having nuclear bombs and saying he's not the next day, and taking hostages,'' he said on Friday, referring to the Iranian capture of 15 British sailors and marines. ''I'm not saying that we should take a foreign policy stance; I'm saying it's not a good place to invest our money.''
 Mr. Anderson's language was notably more heated when he introduced the bill in January, raising the specter of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and calling money ''the mother's milk of terrorism.'' Last week, Mr. Anderson said he had toned down the terrorism angle in part because of legal concerns regarding divestment bills, which came into vogue in the 1980s as part of a movement to force pensions and money out of South African interests in protest of apartheid. More recently, divestment has been used to voice displeasure with tobacco companies and the atrocities in the Darfur region of Sudan.
 States are not the only entities trying to put pressure on Iran. On March 24, the United Nations Security Council imposed new, more stringent sanctions in an effort to stop the country's uranium enrichment program and to try to force it to rejoin negotiations. In Congress, Representative Tom Lantos, a Democrat from the San Francisco Bay Area, introduced legislation last month to impose additional economic sanctions on Iran. Mr. Lantos cited denials of the Holocaust by President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran and his comments that Israel should be ''wiped off the map.'' 
 Last year, California joined a roster of states that have opted out of investment in Sudan with a bill similar to the Iran bill, passed by a pension-related committee in the State Assembly on Wednesday. 
 Assemblyman Alberto Torrico, a Bay Area Democrat who cast the sole committee vote against the bill, said he thought it would find wide support in the Legislature despite his concerns about the plan's feasibility and vagueness. ''Our pension funds are invested in thousands of companies,'' Mr. Torrico said. ''I don't know how you're going to do it.''
 Officials at the funds agree that determining which companies might have financial dealings with Iran is a big and often complicated job. 
 ''That's always been the struggle,'' said Brad Pacheco, a spokesman for the California Public Employees Retirement System, who said the fund had asked the federal government for help in determining which companies were ''terror free.'' ''We don't necessarily have the resources or the expertise.'' 
 Mr. Pacheco said the public employees' fund, known as Calpers, had no position on the bill yet. But officials with the California State Teachers Retirement System, with holdings of $159 billion, have already suggested they will oppose it. 
 Some divestment bills have also been challenged in court. In February, a federal judge struck down an Illinois law that called for Sudanese divestment, saying it interfered with the federal government's ability to conduct foreign policy.
 William A. Reinsch, president of the National Foreign Trade Council, with offices in New York and Washington, which filed suit against the Illinois law, said divestment bills -- while morally laudable -- could sabotage diplomatic efforts to isolate Iran. 
 ''The companies that would be divested would be European and Asian companies,'' Mr. Reinsch said. ''It sticks a stick in the eye of the very people and the very countries we are trying to get to cooperate with us.''
 He added that while California's pension funds were powerful -- the public employees fund has holdings of $230 billion -- their economic influence was still smaller than that of other potential players in multilateral international sanctions. 
 ''I love Calpers, but I don't think the pressure their divestment would supply is anywhere near what we could get if we could get the European Union, China and Russia to all act in concert,'' Mr. Reinsch said.
 But Mr. Anderson said he was more concerned with the bottom line than foreign policy.
 ''If we get world peace out of it, I'm for world peace, and if we get human rights out of it, we get human rights,'' he said. ''But I just want to be able to look at our taxpayers and say I wasn't asleep at the switch.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); DIVESTITURES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PENSION FUNDS (75%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); HOSTAGE TAKING (72%); WRITERS (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (70%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (68%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (66%); ARMED FORCES (65%); FOREIGN POLICY (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (52%) Foreign Investments; Law and Legislation; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Law and Legislation; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (58%); TOM LANTOS (58%) Jesse Mckinley

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SUDAN (93%) Iran; California; United States

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2007



45 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE WEEK AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 216 words

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS -- The main news of the week will be the unemployment report for March (Friday). Other reports will include the Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing index for March (Monday), the institute's service index for March and factory orders for February (Wednesday), and wholesale trade for February and consumer credit for February (Friday).DISPUTE SETTLEMENT -- Shareholders of the News Corporation are expected to approve an $11 billion asset swap with Liberty Media, which would resolve a dispute between Rupert Murdoch, above, and John C. Malone (Tuesday).SPOTLIGHT ON AUTOS -- The DaimlerChrysler shareholder meeting in Berlin on Wednesday will get a lot of attention after the company's chairman, Dieter Zetsche, said in February that all options were open for the company's Chrysler division, including a possible sale or spinoff. Also, automakers will report their sales for March (Tuesday), and the International Automobile Show in New York will open to the public (Friday).QUARTERLY EARNINGS -- The electronics retailers Best Buy and Circuit City will report quarterly results (Wednesday). Monsanto will also release its results (Wednesday).HOLIDAY WEEKEND -- Stock markets will be closed on Friday and the bond market will close early in observance of Good Friday. 

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); EASTER SEASON (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); WHOLESALERS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (77%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (76%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (76%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (72%); BONDS (72%); RETAILERS (71%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (71%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (70%); BOND MARKETS (70%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); APPROVALS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); NEWS CORP (83%); MONSANTO CO (55%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (83%); NWS (ASX) (83%); MON (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (55%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (55%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (55%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (55%); JOHN MALONE (55%); DIETER ZETSCHE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2007



46 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: Seeking a Car That Gets 100 Miles a Gallon

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
The race is on to develop a commercially viable car that can travel 100 miles on a gallon of gasoline.
 The same group that awarded $10 million to a team that built the first private spacecraft to leave the earth's atmosphere is expected to announce today the rules for its automotive competition. 
The group, the X Prize Foundation, says that the automotive contest, expected to carry a prize of more than $10 million, could have a significant effect on the automobile industry by speeding up efforts to use alternative fuels and reduce consumption. The average fuel economy of vehicles sold in the United States has remained nearly stagnant -- around 20 miles a gallon -- for decades.
 ''The industry is stuck, and we think a prize is perfect to disrupt that dynamic,'' said Mark Goodstein, executive director of the Automotive X Prize. ''Failure is frowned upon in this industry, and that doesn't make for big advances. It makes for incrementalism.''
 Even before it began publicizing a draft of the rules for the competition, the foundation had fielded inquiries from more than 1,000 potential contestants and institutions willing to participate. Many major automakers have also expressed interest in monitoring the contest, including some that are considering competing themselves.
 Ideally, Mr. Goodstein said, some of the top teams would see their designs purchased and used in some form by automakers.
 A General Motors spokeswoman, Susan Garavaglia, said the company had not determined its level of participation in the contest but would pay close attention to it.
 ''G.M. is always looking for new innovative technology to improve fuel economy and performance and reduce emissions of our vehicles,'' Ms. Garavaglia said. ''The key is whether or not it can be provided to the customer in a way that's affordable to them and in a way that we can make it in a high-volume application.''
 Indeed, the organizers want to ensure that vehicles entered in the contest, which will compete in races in 2009 to determine the winner, are commercially viable. Entries must be production-ready, unlike many of the fantastical concept cars that are presented at auto shows. Each team must prepare a business plan for building at least 10,000 of the vehicles at a cost comparable to that of cars available now.
 In fact, several cars have been built that could travel more than 100 miles on a gallon, but they were expensive and were used only for demonstration.
 ''Building a one-off that can go 100 miles per gallon, I think any of the automakers could do that,'' said James A. Croce, chief executive of NextEnergy, a nonprofit organization in Detroit that promotes alternative energy. ''It's mass-producing them that's the problem.''
 But if the Automotive X Prize works as intended, that problem could be resolved much faster than the industry might on its own.
 ''This is not a question of curing cancer,'' Mr. Goodstein said. ''The technologies to build superefficient vehicles exist. It's just a matter of convincing manufacturers to build them.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); SPACECRAFT (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (78%); CONCEPT CARS (78%); SPACE EXPLORATION (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); BUSINESS PLANS (64%) Automobiles; Contests and Prizes; Inventions and Patents; Fuel Efficiency

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: X Prize Foundation

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: Nick Bunkley

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2007



47 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Distract and Disenfranchise

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
I have a theory about the Bush administration abuses of power that are now, finally, coming to light. Ultimately, I believe, they were driven by rising income inequality.
 Let me explain.
In 1980, when Ronald Reagan won the White House, conservative ideas appealed to many, even most, Americans. At the time, we were truly a middle-class nation. To white voters, at least, the vast inequalities and social injustices of the past, which were what originally gave liberalism its appeal, seemed like ancient history. It was easy, in that nation, to convince many voters that Big Government was their enemy, that they were being taxed to provide social programs for other people. 
 Since then, however, we have once again become a deeply unequal society. Median income has risen only 17 percent since 1980, while the income of the richest 0.1 percent of the population has quadrupled. The gap between the rich and the middle class is as wide now as it was in the 1920s, when the political coalition that would eventually become the New Deal was taking shape. 
 And voters realize that society has changed. They may not pore over income distribution tables, but they do know that today's rich are building themselves mansions bigger than those of the robber barons. They may not read labor statistics, but they know that wages aren't going anywhere: according to the Pew Research Center, 59 percent of workers believe that it's harder to earn a decent living today than it was 20 or 30 years ago.
 You know that perceptions of rising inequality have become a political issue when even President Bush admits, as he did in January, that ''some of our citizens worry about the fact that our dynamic economy is leaving working people behind.'' 
 But today's Republicans can't respond in any meaningful way to rising inequality, because their activists won't let them. You could see the dilemma just this past Friday and Saturday, when almost all the G.O.P. presidential hopefuls traveled to Palm Beach to make obeisance to the Club for Growth, a supply-side pressure group dedicated to tax cuts and privatization.
 The Republican Party's adherence to an outdated ideology leaves it with big problems. It can't offer domestic policies that respond to the public's real needs. So how can it win elections?
 The answer, for a while, was a combination of distraction and disenfranchisement.
 The terrorist attacks on 9/11 were themselves a massive, providential distraction; until then the public, realizing that Mr. Bush wasn't the moderate he played in the 2000 election, was growing increasingly unhappy with his administration. And they offered many opportunities for further distractions. Rather than debating Democrats on the issues, the G.O.P. could denounce them as soft on terror. And do you remember the terror alert, based on old and questionable information, that was declared right after the 2004 Democratic National Convention?
 But distraction can only go so far. So the other tool was disenfranchisement: finding ways to keep poor people, who tend to vote for the party that might actually do something about inequality, out of the voting booth.
 Remember that disenfranchisement in the form of the 2000 Florida ''felon purge,'' which struck many legitimate voters from the rolls, put Mr. Bush in the White House in the first place. And disenfranchisement seems to be what much of the politicization of the Justice Department was about. 
 Several of the fired U.S. attorneys were under pressure to pursue allegations of voter fraud -- a phrase that has become almost synonymous with ''voting while black.'' Former staff members of the Justice Department's civil rights division say that they were repeatedly overruled when they objected to Republican actions, ranging from Georgia's voter ID law to Tom DeLay's Texas redistricting, that they believed would effectively disenfranchise African-American voters. 
 The good news is that all the G.O.P.'s abuses of power weren't enough to win the 2006 elections. And 2008 may be even harder for the Republicans, because the Democrats -- who spent most of the Clinton years trying to reassure rich people and corporations that they weren't really populists -- seem to be realizing that times have changed. 
 A week before the Republican candidates trooped to Palm Beach to declare their allegiance to tax cuts, the Democrats met to declare their commitment to universal health care. And it's hard to see what the G.O.P. can offer in response.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); HISTORY (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); INCOME TAX (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX LAW (70%); STATISTICS (69%); TERRORISM (63%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (60%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2007



48 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Tribune Presses Real Estate Magnate to Increase His Bid

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN and KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
In last-minute negotiations yesterday, executives for the Tribune Company were pushing Sam Zell, the Chicago real estate tycoon, to increase his bid for the company, according to people close to the talks. If Mr. Zell were to make a high enough offer, the company seemed prepared to sell its 160-year-old media empire to him, they said. 
 Mr. Zell could still walk away from the talks. But even if he were to drop out, it seemed doubtful that Tribune would accept a rival bid from Ronald W. Burkle and Eli Broad, two Los Angeles billionaires; more likely, the board members would decide to restructure the company themselves.
 Last week, Mr. Zell's bid of $33 a share, which he already increased once, had been $1 below the Burkle-Broad bid. 
 On Friday afternoon, Tribune executives told Mr. Zell that he would have to offer them more money if he wanted to buy the company, the people said; Mr. Zell came back with a new bid of close to $34 a share.
 The Tribune board met on Sunday morning and rejected Mr. Zell's latest offer, telling him he would have to increase it yet again and giving him 12 hours to do so. People close to the talks, who sought anonymity because they were not authorized to speak to the news media, said the board planned to meet late Sunday night, but it was not clear what Mr. Zell would do or whether he would return with an offer at all. 
 The Tribune board has favored Mr. Zell over Mr. Burkle and Mr. Broad, in part because Mr. Zell's offer is further along and could be finished more quickly, these people said. In addition, the board would prefer to sell the company to a Chicagoan like Mr. Zell, rather than to people with ties to Los Angeles, where disputes between Tribune and its largest newspaper, The Los Angeles Times, have been played out on the public stage. 
 Mr. Zell, who has said his sole interest in buying Tribune is economic, not editorial, has made billions in real estate and has been known to walk away from deals that he thought were too expensive. 
 Tribune, which also owns The Chicago Tribune, other papers and 23 broadcast outlets, has been on the auction block since September. There was little interest in it, although Mr. Broad and Mr. Burkle combined in January to offer $27 a share. The board dismissed that and began concentrating on a plan to have management restructure the company itself, including spinning off the television properties.
 But Mr. Zell entered the picture in February and has been negotiating back and forth over the last several weeks. The board has seesawed on his bid, perceiving it as still too low and also concerned that he would be putting in only $300 million of his own money and taking on too much debt. He centered his proposal on an employee stock ownership plan.
 Then last week, Mr. Broad and Mr. Burkle complained that in order for Mr. Zell to offer a stock ownership plan, he must have received financial information that they had not received earlier. They revived their plan, offering $34 a share and $500 million of their own money and also basing it on a stock ownership plan. That set a new bar for Mr. Zell.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); AUCTIONS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (74%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (74%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (69%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (60%) Newspapers; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Tribune Co

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%)

PERSON: SAMUEL ZELL (93%); RON BURKLE (89%); ELI BROAD (89%) Andrew Ross Sorkin; Katharine Q Seelye; Sam Zell; Ronald W Burkle; Eli Broad

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2007



49 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; DECISIONS IN ALBANY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: City to Lose $308 Million In Assistance for Just a Year

BYLINE: By RAY RIVERA; David M. Herszenhorn contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The state's record $120.9 billion budget will leave the city scrambling to replace $308 million in lost aid, the Bloomberg administration said yesterday. 
 But worries that the aid package would be permanently lost were alleviated with a negotiated deal that will restore it to full levels next year, one of several compromises that allowed New York City to come out ahead of where it stood under Gov. Eliot Spitzer's initial proposal.
Working with a Democratic governor for the first time since Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, a Republican, took office in 2002, city officials said the final budget worked out by the parties was a hopeful sign for future negotiations. That could prove especially important in 2009 and beyond when the city expects the opulent surpluses it enjoys now to be replaced by shortfalls. 
 ''The fact that the governor and governor's office had an open door to the city and gave us a fair hearing on all the issues that we raised is a positive sign going forward,'' said Deputy Mayor Edward Skyler, who was heavily involved in the negotiations.
 Highlights for the city included an increase in state education aid of $3.3 billion over the next four years, which will come on top of a city match of $2.2 billion. The increase includes $712 million more in state aid this year alone, city officials said, though the city got less control over the money than it wanted. The city also got clearance to create 50 charter schools, and its public hospital system was protected from Medicaid cuts affecting private hospitals. 
 Paul E. Francis, the governor's budget director, said the city fared ''significantly'' better in the negotiated budget than in the governor's original proposal. 
 ''On the most important issues, we were really on the same side,'' Mr. Francis said, referring to education spending and long-term financing for the city's public hospital system. 
 The city's fiercest battle was against the governor's plan to stop $328 million in annual unrestricted aid payments. The proposal drew sharp rebukes from the mayor and his budget staff, who warned that it would produce an enormous gap in the city's budget. While small compared with the mayor's $57.1 billion preliminary budget, the revenue sharing aid is seen as a critical revenue source because the city can spend it however it wishes. 
 The compromise, which restores $20 million of discretionary aid this year and returns the aid to its full level next year, relieved the mayor's concern that the cuts could become permanent. But the mayor's aides said yesterday that the city would still have to find new revenue this year. Last month the mayor warned his agency heads that they might have to cut 1.5 percent from their budgets for this fiscal year and 4 percent next year. The possible cuts were attributed to a slowdown in the national economy, volatility in the stock market and new labor agreements. But it seemed also clear that the mayor's budget staff was anticipating some shortfalls in money they had expected from the state. 
 City officials were cautious yesterday about saying what the state's overall budget would mean for the city until they fully analyze the budget agreement. 
 The city's bargaining position against the cuts was strained because the city is doing so well financially with projected surpluses of $3.9 billion this year and $1.4 billion next year. According to people familiar with the negotiations, the city received support from the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, and other Senate Republicans. 
 ''We were very supportive of what the mayor was looking for in this budget,'' said the majority leader's spokesman, John McArdle. 
 City negotiators along with Senate Republicans were also partly successful in cutting the number of proposed corporate tax loopholes the governor wanted to close from 13 to 4. 
 The governor had said that closing the loopholes would even the playing field for businesses and in turn produce enough revenue for the city to offset his proposed cuts in aid. But the mayor warned that they would encourage large financial services companies to move jobs out of the city. 
 As part of the compromise, the governor agreed to cut the state's corporate tax rate to about 7.1 percent from 7.5 percent, which was expected to generate about $75 million in tax relief. Senate Republicans also threw in another $75 million cut in the franchise tax on manufacturers, which budget watchers said would mainly benefit businesses upstate. 
 ''The tax cut is modest compared to the impact of what the four loophole closures will cost New York City business,'' said Kathryn S. Wylde, president of the Partnership for New York City, which represents many of the city's largest businesses. ''But at least it indicates some responsiveness to business concerns about the high tax rate in New York.'' 
 Diana Fortuna, president of the Citizens Budget Commission, a business-backed research organization, said the loophole compromise appeared to be more of a victory for the governor. 
 Among the loopholes closed were two the mayor had expressed particular concern about: one that would require corporations with out-of-state subsidiaries to file joint tax returns in New York, thus preventing companies from funneling profits to states with lower tax rates; and one that had allowed a deduction for certain subsidiary dividends received by a parent company from real estate investment trusts. 
 Together, the governor estimated that the two provisions would generate $319 million for the state -- far more than the $75 million offset by the tax cut. 
 The mayor lost his fight to stop a $30 million increase in what the state charges the city to administer the city's personal income tax. 
 City officials described the budget negotiations as perhaps the toughest since 2003, when the city successfully fought for a $1.79 billion aid package to refinance debt emanating from the fiscal crisis of the 1970s, overcoming a veto by Gov. George E. Pataki.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); MEDICAID (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); HOSPITALS (69%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%) 

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (78%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Eliot (Gov) Spitzer; Ray Rivera

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2007



50 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2007

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 2455 words

HEADLINE: Amazing Grace...and Talent, and Smarts, and Skills, and...

BYLINE: AMANDA CHRISTY BROWN and JAVAID KHAN


HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson, students consider what it takes to get into college by learning about the "amazing girls" at a top American high school. They write from multiple perspectives to gain insight into the roles, responsibilities and pressures of those involved in the college admissions process, discuss how the process reflects and shapes society, and reflect on their personal views about college and what it takes to get there.

 BODY:
Note: This lesson was originally published on an older version of The Learning Network; the link to the related Times article will take you to a page on the old site.
Overview of Lesson Plan: In this lesson, students consider what it takes to get into college by learning about the "amazing girls" at a top American high school. They write from multiple perspectives to gain insight into the roles, responsibilities and pressures of those involved in the college admissions process, discuss how the process reflects and shapes society, and reflect on their personal views about college and what it takes to get there.
Author(s):Amanda Christy Brown, The New York Times Learning NetworkJavaid Khan, The Bank Street College of Education in New York City
Suggested Time Allowance: 1 hour
Objectives:Students will: 1. Consider what it takes to get into a U.S. college in the twenty-first century. 2. Read and discuss the article "For Girls, It's Be Yourself, and Be Perfect, Too." 3. Write from various perspectives to gain understanding of the variables and pressures involved in the college admissions process. 4. Reflect on such issues in their own lives and society as a whole by writing an essay based on a quotation from the article.
Resources / Materials:-paper -pens/pencils -student journals -computer with projector set-up and screen -"Amazing Girls" interactive feature, found online at http://www.nytimes.com/packages/khtml/2007/03/30/education/20070401_GIRLS_FEATURE.html -copies of the article "For Girls, It's Be Yourself, and Be Perfect, Too," found online at http://www.nytimes.com/learning/teachers/featured_articles/20070402monday.html (one per student)
Activities / Procedures:1. WARM-UP/DO-NOW: Upon entering class, students respond to the following prompt in their journals (written on the board prior to class): "Create a mock resume for a stellar college applicant. Take into consideration grades, test scores, extracurricular activities, leadership positions, and anything else that might be important to one's college candidacy." After a few minutes, have them share with the class what makes a great college candidate, and make a list of the qualities and achievements on the board. Discuss briefly the similarities and differences among their mock resumes and why they think these items might make a candidate particularly attractive to college admissions officers. Then watch the following segments of the Times interactive feature (http://www.nytimes.com/packages/khtml/2007/03/30/education/20070401_GIRLS_FEATURE.html ) "Amazing Girls": The introduction, "School", "Esther's Choice", and "Colby Makes a List." Explain that they will now read a New York Times article about these and other girls at Newton North High School near Boston. 2. As a class, read and discuss the following excerpts from the article "For Girls, It's Be Yourself, and Be Perfect, Too" (http://www.nytimes.com/learning/teachers/featured_articles/20070402monday.html): the beginning of the article, up to the subhead "Fending Off 'Anorexia of the Soul'," as well as the end of the article, beginning with "Encouraged to Ease Up a Little." Focus on the following questions: a. How does the author characterize "amazing girls"? b. Do you agree with Kat Jiang when she says that for girls, "it is more important to be hot than smart"? c. How does downtown Newton Centre, as it's described in the article, mirror the mixed messages girls are receiving? d. How do parents view the high cost of living in Newton? e. Why does college admissions hold such power over students and their families? f. How do the boys interviewed at Newton North feel about the "amazing girls"? g. Are you surprised that Esther Mobley does not get into two of her top choices for college? Why or why not? h. In what ways does Newton North High School seem both similar to and different from our school? i. Which girl profiled reminds you most of yourself or someone you know? How? j. Can you, as Sara Rimer puts it, "chill out and still get into a highly selective college"? How? 3. Have students write a letter to a person of their choice in the article - one of the students, the school principal, a parent, an implied college admissions officer, a teacher, an SAT tutor, a parent, or anyone else - from their personal point of view. Tell them to think about what it is they really want to say to this person and to write from the heart. Have them consider this person's role and his or her responsibilities and pressures as they craft their letters. Once they have finished writing their letters, direct them to leave their letters, take their pens, and move to the front of the room. Direct students to now sit in someone else's seat, read the letter they find there, and then respond as if they are that person. For example, if a student finds a letter written to Esther, the student should write back (in letter form) as if he or she is Esther. Encourage them to try to incorporate the person's point of view and voice in writing the response. After this second round of letter-writing is complete, students return to their original seats and read the responses. Next, hold a group discussion about what they noticed as they wrote and read their letters. You may wish to focus the discussion around the following questions: -What are the responsibilities of each of these people? -What pressures do they face, and why? -What pressures do they exert on others, and why? -What factors contribute to the admissions process, other than grades, essays, test scores and activities? -What benefits and drawbacks arise from colleges' and universities' attempts to admit an ethnically, socioeconomically and geographically diverse class? -How do college admissions reflect what is happening in the larger society? -How might college admissions help shape society? -How do you, as a prospective college applicant, approach a process over which you do not have total control? -What solutions are there to the pressure of college admissions? How could people in various roles help? 4. WRAP-UP/HOMEWORK: Individually, students complete reading the article for homework. They then choose one quotation that speaks to them in some way and write a one-page reflective essay, using the quotation as a jumping-off point. In their response, they should think about the ramifications of issues they explore for society and the future of the United States.
Further Questions for Discussion:-In the article, Esther Mobley says, "You want to achieve, but how do you achieve and still be genuine?" In this pressurized school setting, can one achieve and be genuine? How? -The article mentions that girls are dealing with conflicting messages: one, that they should bring home A's and excel in everything, and two, that they be themselves, have fun, and don't work too hard. Are parents and schools being unrealistic in sending these messages? -Do you think the college pressures for girls and for boys are similar or different? How? How might the article have been different had it focused on boys rather than girls? -How do non-college-bound students feel about the college process in which they see their classmates engaged? Does it affect them? If so, how?
Evaluation / Assessment:Students will be evaluated on their thoughtful participation in class discussions and their final reflective essays.
Vocabulary:effervescent, affluent, elite, subjunctive, conformity, nonconformity, lucrative, anorexia, trolling, fundamental, verge, incandescent, rigorous, forlorn, negotiate, vantage, existentialism, intricacies, pragmatic, diminution
Extension Activities:1. Create an audio slide show like "Amazing Girls," or a video documentary, in which you follow one or several students around your school to highlight the competition and pressures they feel. What parallels do you see between your school and Newton North, the school profiled in the article? 2. Interview a college counselor at your school about college admissions and how to cope with the accompanying pressures. Put together a brochure of tips to help prospective college applicants pursue success without sacrificing their physical, mental or spiritual health. 3. Make a "life list" like Colby Kennedy's. Then choose one item from the list and use it as the basis for a potential college essay. You may wish to use Esther and Colby's essays as models. 4. Interview your parents, grandparents and other adults about their college application experiences. What has changed since they were in the position of applying? How do you explain the changes? Have these change been positive or negative? Why? What effects do they have on students and their parents? 5. Inquire into the achievement gaps between boys and girls in various academic subjects. Create graphics to illustrate current trends. Look, too, at factors beyond gender that affect achievement, such as socioeconomic status, parents' education, etc.
Interdisciplinary Connections:Economics - What is the cost of success? The article mentions the relationship between income and SAT scores. Find other statistics connected to notions of achievement, such as residence, advanced degrees held by parents, gender, race, etc. Present your findings as a poster, and discuss different ways of looking at and interpreting the results. Health - Research how stress affects the body and mind and ways to cope with it, such as yoga. Teach a class to your peers about the effects of stress and how to handle it productively. Current Events - Investigate current events in college admissions. Harvard College, for example, has recently done away with its early admissions program (you can read more about this decision at http://www.admissions.college.harvard.edu/announcement/earlyadmission.html), and many schools are doing away with required SAT scores. Some schools are protesting the way U.S. News and World Report rates colleges and universities. Research one or more of these issues in recent periodicals and write an editorial about their effect on the college application/admissions process. Teaching with The Times - Follow the rest of Sara Rimer's series about high-achieving kids at Newton North High School. Keep a journal of clippings or a bulletin board of related articles in your classroom or guidance office. To order The New York Times for your classroom, click here.
Academic Content Standards:Grades 6-8 Behavioral Studies Standard 1- Understands that group and cultural influences contribute to human development, identity, and behavior. Benchmarks: Understands that each culture has distinctive patterns of behavior that are usually practiced by most of the people who grow up in it Behavioral Studies Standard 2- Understands various meanings of social group, general implications of group membership, and different ways that groups function. Benchmark: Understands how language, literature, the arts, architecture, other artifacts, traditions, beliefs, values, and behaviors contribute to the development and transmission of culture Civics Standard 9- Understands the importance of Americans sharing and supporting certain values, beliefs, and principles of American constitutional democracy. Benchmarks: Understands how certain values are fundamental to American public life Language Arts Standard 1- Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies of the writing process. Benchmarks: Uses a variety of prewriting strategies; Uses a variety of strategies to draft and revise written work; Uses style and structure appropriate for specific audiences and purposes; writes expository compositions Language Arts Standard 7- Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies for reading a variety of informational texts. Benchmarks: Identifies techniques used to convey viewpoint; Draws conclusions and makes inferences based on explicit and implicit information in texts; Differentiates between fact and opinion in informational texts Language Arts Standard 8- Demonstrates competence in speaking and listening as tools for learning. Benchmarks: Plays a variety of roles in group discussions; Asks questions to seek elaboration and clarification of ideas Grades 9-12 Behavioral Studies Standard 1- Understands that group and cultural influences contribute to human development, identity, and behavior. Benchmarks: Understands that cultural beliefs strongly influence the values and behavior of the people who grow up in the culture, often without their being fully aware of it, and that people have different responses to these influences; Understands that social distinctions are a part of every culture, but they take many different forms; Understands that heredity, culture, and personal experience interact in shaping human behavior, and that the relative importance of these influences is not clear in most circumstances; Understands that family, gender, ethnicity, nationality, institutional affiliations, socioeconomic status, and other group and cultural influences contribute to the shaping of a person's identity Behavioral Studies Standard 2- Understands various meanings of social group, general implications of group membership, and different ways that groups function. Benchmark: Understands that social groups may have patterns of behavior, values, beliefs, and attitudes that can help or hinder cross-cultural understanding Civics Standard 9- Understands the importance of Americans sharing and supporting certain values, beliefs, and principles of American constitutional democracy. Benchmarks: Understands how the institutions of government reflect fundamental values and principles; Understands the interdependence among certain values and principles; Understands the significance of fundamental values and principles for the individual and society Language Arts Standard 1- Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies of the writing process. Benchmarks: Writes compositions that are focused for different audiences; Writes compositions that fulfill different purposes; Makes informed judgments about nonprint media Language Arts Standard 7- Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies for reading a variety of informational texts. Benchmarks: Determines the effectiveness of techniques used to convey viewpoint; Supports inferences about information in texts by referring to text features Language Arts Standard 8- Uses listening and speaking strategies for different purposes. Benchmarks: Asks questions as a way to broaden and enrich classroom discussions; Adjusts message wording and delivery to particular audiences and for particular purposes

        
For Girls, It?s Be Yourself, and Be Perfect, Too

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); WRITERS (78%); CREATIVE WRITING (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (77%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (77%); TEACHER EDUCATION (74%) Creative Writing; Education; Language Arts; Social Studies

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



51 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; THE CLIMATE DIVIDE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: Wealth and Poverty, Drought and Flood: Reports From 4 Fronts In the War on Warming

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
Over the last few decades, as scientists have intensified their study of the human effects on climate and of the effects of climate change on humans, a common theme has emerged: in both respects, the world is a very unequal place.
 In almost every instance, the people most at risk from climate change live in countries that have contributed the least to the atmospheric buildup of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases linked to the recent warming of the planet. 
Those most vulnerable countries also tend to be the poorest. And the countries that face the least harm -- and that are best equipped to deal with the harm they do face -- tend to be the richest.
 To advocates of unified action to curb greenhouse gases, this growing realization is not welcome news. 
 ''The original idea was that we were all in this together, and that was an easier idea to sell,'' said Robert O. Mendelsohn, an economist at Yale. ''But the research is not supporting that. We're not in it together.''
 The large, industrialized countries are more resilient partly because of geography; they are mostly in midlatitude regions with Goldilocks climates -- neither too hot nor too cold. 
 Many enjoy gifts like the thick, rich soil and generous growing season of the American corn belt or the forgiving weather of France and New Zealand. 
 But a bigger factor is their wealth -- wealth built at least partly on a century or more of burning coal, oil and the other fossil fuels that underlie their mobile, industrial, climate-controlled way of life. 
 The United States, where agriculture represents just 4 percent of the economy, can endure a climatic setback far more easily than a country like Malawi, where 90 percent of the population lives in rural areas and about 40 percent of the economy is driven by rain-fed agriculture.
 As big developing countries like China and India climb out of poverty, they emit their own volumes of greenhouse gases; China is about to surpass the United States in annual emissions of carbon dioxide. 
 But they remain a small fraction of the total human contribution to the atmosphere's natural heat-holding greenhouse effect, which is cumulative because of the long-lived nature of carbon dioxide and some other heat-trapping gases. China may be a powerhouse now, but it has contributed less than 8 percent of the total emissions of carbon dioxide from energy use since 1850, while the United States is responsible for 29 percent and Western Europe 27 percent. 
 Disparities like these have prompted a growing array of officials in developing countries and experts on climate, environmental law and diplomacy to insist that the first world owes the third world a climate debt. 
 The obligation of the established greenhouse-gas emitters to help those most imperiled by warming derives from the longstanding legal concept that ''the polluter pays,'' many experts say. 
 ''We have an obligation to help countries prepare for the climate changes that we are largely responsible for,'' said Peter H. Gleick, the founder of the Pacific Institute for Studies in Development, Environment and Security in Berkeley, Calif. His institute has been tracking trends like the burst of new desalination plants in wealthy places running short of water.
 ''If you drive your car into your neighbor's living room, don't you owe your neighbor something?'' Dr. Gleick said. ''On this planet, we're driving the climate car into our neighbors' living room, and they don't have insurance and we do.''
 Around the world, there are abundant examples of how wealth is already enabling some countries to gird against climatic and coastal risks, while poverty, geography and history place some of the world's most crowded, vulnerable regions directly in harm's way.
 expected negative effects. 1. ADAPTATION PROJECTSShishmaref, AlaskaThe entire town is planning to move off a low-lying island that is eroding, costing an estimated $180 million.2. U.S. CORN BELTGenetically modified crop varieties designed for drought and pest resistance may help farmers sustain their yields.3. LONDONPlanning is under way for improvements to flood protection structures on the Thames.4. SYLT ISLAND, GERMANYA pilot project to build More resilient dikes out of rocks coated in flexible polyurethane began in 2005.5. ANDERMATT, SWITZERLANDA ski resort has built a ramp of snow each year to gain access to a receding glacier. Now the ramp is being covered with a reflective cover to keep it from melting.6. VENICEA project to build floodgates that would protect Venice from extremely high tides is partly completed.7. CHINAA project is under way to divert water hundreds of miles from the Yangtze River in the south to the drier north.8. PERTH, AUSTRALIAA huge desalination plant opened last fall to address dwindling supplies of natural fresh water.The LosersBut the poorer nations closer to the tropics, though less responsible for warming, will generally fare worse.Anticipated negative effects of global warming.Population density in countries with more than 10 million people in low-elevation coastal zones. Darker shades are higher population densities.Adaptations the Winners Can AffordAnd the wealthy nations that caused most global warming are also the best able to adjust to the changing climate.Examples of adaptation projects now underway or planned are shown below map.(Sources by World Resources Institute; Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Working Group I; CIESIN; Deborah Balk, CUNY; NOAA; Shishmaref Erosion and Relocation Coalition; Monsanto; Thames Estuary 2100; BAST; BBC; Degremont; Multiplex Group; peer-reviewed scientific papers) 

GRAPHIC: Photos: LIVING WITH THE WATER -- Top, floating houses on the River Maas in the Netherlands rise and fall with the water. Left, a primary filter for incoming water at the Perth Seawater Desalination Plant, which is powered by wind. Right, a bridge in India has holes to allow floodwaters to flow through it when the monsoon rains come and the rivers swell. (Photo by Joost van den Broek for The New York Times)
(Photo by Adam Huggins for The New York Times)
(Photo by Tony Sernack for The New York Times)(pg. F4)
AT THE MERCY OF THE CLIMATE -- A communal well at a Malawi village was contaminated in January by floodwaters that swept away homes and crops. Nine out of 10 Malawians are subsistence farmers, and drought struck three years ago. The country identified $23 million in climate change projects it should undertake in the next three years. (Photo by Joao Silva for The New York Times)
 (Illustrations by James Bronzan/The New York Times)(pg. F5)Chart/Map: ''The Winners''The industrialized nations are most responsible for the greenhouse gases that promote global warming.Circles are scaled by total emissions of carbon dioxide from energy production since 1850 for the largest polluters.NORTH AMERICAHigher temperatures and less rain are likely in the corn belt.LATIN AMERICADecreased runoff and shrinking glaciers could put millions more people at risk of insufficient fresh water.EUROPELow-lying areas like the Netherlands and Venice will face rising sea levels, but agricultural yields are expected to improve.AFRICACrop yieldds and subsisming tance farm will be hard hit accross a large swath of northern and southern Africa.SOUTHERN AND SOUTHEAST ASIAHundreds of millions of people live on low coasts or river banks and could face frequent flooding.NEGATIVE EFFECTSShaded areas cover general regions where some negative effects of global warming are expected, focusing on agriculture and fresh water. They are a selection from a much larger list of

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); DROUGHT (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); GEOGRAPHY (78%); TRENDS (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (71%); AGRICULTURE (70%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (68%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%) Weather; Global Warming; Third World and Developing Countries; Economic Conditions and Trends; Weather

PERSON: Andrew C Revkin

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); MALAWI (93%); INDIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); AFRICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); NETHERLANDS (65%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2007



52 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Health&Fitness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2083 words

HEADLINE: Drugs Are in the Water. Does It Matter?

BYLINE: By CORNELIA DEAN

 BODY:
Residues of birth control pills, antidepressants, painkillers, shampoos and a host of other compounds are finding their way into the nation's waterways, and they have public health and environmental officials in a regulatory quandary. 
 On the one hand, there is no evidence the traces of the chemicals found so far are harmful to human beings. On the other hand, it would seem cavalier to ignore them.
 The pharmaceutical and personal care products, or P.P.C.P.'s, are being flushed into the nation's rivers from sewage treatment plants or leaching into groundwater from septic systems. According to the Environmental Protection Agency, researchers have found these substances, called ''emerging contaminants,'' almost everywhere they have looked for them. 
 Most experts say their discovery reflects better sensing technology as much as anything else. Still, as Hal Zenick of the agency's office of research and development put it in an e-mail message, ''there is uncertainty as to the risk to humans.'' 
 In part, that is because the extent and consequences of human exposure to these compounds, especially in combination, are ''unknown,'' the Food and Drug Administration said in a review issued in 2005. And aging and increasingly medicated Americans are using more of these products than ever.
 So officials who deal with these compounds have the complex task of balancing reassurance that they take the situation seriously with reassurance that there is probably nothing to worry about. As a result, scientists in several government and private agencies are devising new ways to measure and analyze the compounds, determine their prevalence in the environment, figure out where they come from, how they move, where they end up and if they have any effects. 
 In many cases, the compounds enter the water when people excrete them or wash them away in the shower. But some are flushed or washed down the drain when people discard outdated or unused drugs. So a number of states and localities around the country have started discouraging pharmacies, hospitals, nursing homes and residents from disposing of drugs this way. Some are setting up ''pharmaceutical take-back locations'' in drugstores or even police stations. Others are adding pharmaceuticals to the list of hazardous household waste, like leftover paint or insecticides, periodically collected for safe disposal, often by incineration. 
 For example, Clark County, Wash., has a program in which residents with unwanted or expired drugs can take so-called controlled substances, like prescription narcotics, to police stations or sheriffs' offices for disposal. They can drop noncontrolled drugs at participating pharmacies, and 80 percent of the pharmacies in the county participate. 
 In guidelines issued in February, three federal agencies, including the E.P.A., advised people with leftover medicines to flush them down the drain ''only if the accompanying patient information specifically instructs it is safe to do so.'' Otherwise, the guidelines say, they should dispose of them in the trash (mixed with ''an undesirable substance'' like kitty litter to discourage drug-seeking Dumpster divers) or by taking them to designated take-back locations. 
 Worries about water-borne chemicals flared last summer when researchers at the United States Geological Survey said they had discovered ''intersex fish'' in the Potomac River and its tributaries. The fish, smallmouth and largemouth bass, were male but nevertheless carried immature eggs.
 Scientists who worked on the project said they did not know what was causing the situation, or even if it was a new phenomenon. But the discovery renewed fears that hormone residues or chemicals that mimic them might be affecting creatures that live in the water. 
 In a survey begun in 1999, the agency surveyed 139 streams around the country and found that 80 percent of samples contained residues of drugs like painkillers, hormones, blood pressure medicines or antibiotics. The agency said the findings suggested that the compounds were more prevalent and more persistent than had been thought.
 Meanwhile, the Food and Drug Administration started looking into the effects of residues of antibiotics and antiseptics in water, not just to see if they might affect people but also to assess their potential to encourage the development of drug-resistant bacteria.
 Reports of contamination with pharmaceutical residues can be alarming, even when there is no evidence that anyone has been harmed. In 2004, for example, the British government reported that eight commonly used drugs had been detected in rivers receiving effluent from sewage treatment plants. A spokeswoman for the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs said it was ''extremely unlikely'' that the residues threatened people, because they were present in very low concentrations. Nevertheless, news reports portrayed a nation of inadvertent drug users -- ''a case of hidden mass medication of the unsuspecting public,'' as one member of Parliament was quoted as saying.
 Christopher Daughton, a scientist at the Environmental Protection Agency and one of the first scientists to draw attention to the issue, said P.P.C.P. concentrations in municipal water supplies were even lower than they were in water generally because treatments like chlorination and filtration with activated charcoal alter or remove many chemicals. Dr. Daughton, who works at the agency's National Exposure Research Laboratory in Las Vegas, said he believed that if any living being suffered ill effects from these compounds, it would be fish and other creatures that live in rivers and streams.
 Dr. Daughton and Thomas A. Ternes of the ESWE-Institute for Water Research and Water Technology in Germany brought the issue to scientific prominence in 1999, in a paper in the journal Environmental Health Perspectives. They noted that pollution research efforts had focused almost exclusively on ''conventional'' pollutants -- substances that were known or suspected to be carcinogenic or immediately toxic. They urged researchers to pay more attention to pharmaceuticals and ingredients in personal care products -- not only prescription drugs and biologics, but also diagnostic agents, fragrances, sunscreen compounds and many other substances.
 They theorized that chronic exposure to low levels of these compounds could produce effects in water-dwelling creatures that would accumulate so slowly that they would be ''undetectable or unnoticed'' until it was too late to reverse them. The effects might be so insidious, they wrote, that they would be attributed to some slow-moving force like evolution or ecological change.
 Initial efforts concentrate on measuring what is getting into the nation's surface and groundwater. The discharge of pharmaceutical residues from manufacturing plants is well documented and controlled, according to the E.P.A., but the contribution from individuals in sewage or septic systems ''has been largely overlooked.''
 And unlike pesticides, which are intentionally released in measured applications, or industrial discharges in air and water, whose effects have also been studied in relative detail, the environmental agency says, pharmaceutical residues pass unmeasured through wastewater treatment facilities that have not been designed to deal with them. 
 Many of the compounds in question break down quickly in the environment. In theory, that would lessen their potential to make trouble, were it not for the fact that many are in such wide use that they are constantly replenished in the water.
 And researchers suspect that the volume of P.P.C.P.'s excreted into the nation's surface water and groundwater is increasing. For one thing, per capita drug use is on the rise, not only with the introduction of new drugs but also with the use of existing drugs for new purposes and among new or expanding groups of patients, like children and aging baby boomers.
 Also, more localities are introducing treated sewage into drinking water supplies. Researchers who have studied the issue say there is no sign that pharmaceutical residues accumulate as water is recycled. On the other hand, the F.D.A. said in its review, many contaminants ''survive wastewater treatment and biodegradation, and can be detected at low levels in the environment.''
 Some say the spread of these substances in the environment is an example of how the products of science and technology can have unintended and unpredictable effects. In their view, when the knowledge about these effects is sketchy, it is best to act to reduce risk, even if the extent of the risk is unknown, an approach known as the precautionary principle.
 Joel A. Tickner, an environmental scientist at the University of Massachusetts, Lowell, says that it is a mistake to consider all of these compounds safe ''by default,'' and that more must be done to assess their cumulative effects, individually or in combination, even at low doses.
 In his view, the nation's experience with lead additives, asbestos and other substances shows it can be costly -- in lives, health and dollars -- to defer action until evidence of harm is overwhelming.
 Others say the benefits of action -- banning some compounds, say, or requiring widespread testing or treatment for others -- should at least equal and if possible outweigh their costs.
 ''You have to somehow estimate as well as possible what the likely harms are and the likely benefits,'' said James K. Hammitt, a professor of economics and decision sciences at the Harvard Center for Risk Analysis. 
 And while it is possible that some of the tens of thousands of chemicals that might find their way into water supplies are more dangerous in combination than they are separately, Dr. Hammitt said in an interview, ''it's perfectly possible that they counteract each other.''
 Anyway, he said, assessing their risk in combination is a mathematical problem of impossible complexity. ''The combinatorics of this are truly hopeless.'' 
 Given all this uncertainty, policy makers find it difficult to know what to do, other than continuing their research. Studies of ''the fate and transport and persistence'' of the P.P.C.P.'s will allow scientists to make better estimates of people's exposure to them, Dr. Zenick said, and ''to assess the potential for human health effects.''
 But even that normally anodyne approach comes under question because of something scientists call ''the nocebo effect'' -- real, adverse physiological reactions people sometimes develop when they learn they have been exposed to something -- even if there is no evidence it may be harmful.
 ''The nocebo effect could play a key role in the development of adverse health consequences from exposure even to trace elements of contaminants simply by the power of suggestion,'' Dr. Daughton wrote recently in a paper in a special issue of Ground Water Monitoring and Remediation, a publication of the National Ground Water Association, an organization of scientists, engineers and businesses related to the use of groundwater. 
 In fact, the idea that there are unwanted chemicals in the water supply has many characteristics that researchers who study risk perception say particularly provoke dread, regardless of their real power to harm. The phenomenon is new (or newly known), and the compounds are invisible and artificial rather than naturally occurring.
 But scientists at agencies like the Geological Survey say it is important to understand the prevalence and actions of these compounds, even at low levels. If more is known about them, agency scientists say, researchers will be better able to predict their behavior, especially if they should start turning up at higher concentrations. Also, the Geological Survey says, tracking them at low levels is crucial to determining whether they have additive effects when they occur together in the environment. 
 Comprehensive chemical analysis of water supplies ''is costly, extraordinarily time-consuming, and viewed by risk managers as prompting yet additional onerous and largely unanswerable questions,'' Dr. Daughton wrote in his paper last year.
 But it should be done anyway, he said, because it is a useful way of maintaining public confidence in the water supply.
 ''My work is really categorized as anticipatory research,'' he added. ''You are trying to flesh out a new topic, develop it further and see where it leads you. You don't really know where it leads.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 7, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article in Science Times on Tuesday about residues of pharmaceuticals and personal care products in the nation's waterways misstated the given name of a scientist at the Environmental Protection Agency. He is Christian Daughton, not Christopher.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawings by William Duke)(pgs. F1, F8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (91%); WATER POLLUTION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); PHARMACIES (87%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (79%); INSECTICIDES (79%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); RIVERS (78%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (78%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); HUMAN EXPOSURE ASSESSMENT (77%); MEDICAL RECORDS (77%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (77%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (76%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (76%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES (71%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (70%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (69%); NURSING HOMES (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); POLICE FORCES (57%) Water Pollution; Fish and Other Marine Life; Shampoos and Hair Products; Research; Cleansers, Detergents and Soaps; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Tests and Testing; Water Pollution; Consumer Protection; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (83%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%) Environmental Protection Agency; ESWE-Institute for Water Research and Water Technology (Germany); Environmental Health Perspectives (Journal) 

PERSON: Cornelia Dean; Thomas A Ternes; Christopher (Dr) Daughton

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2007



53 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 129 words

HEADLINE: Factory Growth Slows

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Manufacturing growth slowed more than forecast last month and the cost of raw materials jumped, reinforcing concerns that inflation is not being reduced as the economy cools. 
 The Institute for Supply Management said yesterday that its factory index fell to 50.9, from 52.3 in February. A subindex of prices rose more than it had in seven months, while measures of employment and new orders declined.
The report suggests persistent inflation pressures mean that the Fed is unlikely to cut interest rates in coming months, economists said.
 ''This makes the Fed's dilemma more acute in the sense that growth is very soft and the inflation numbers are ticking up or even surging for manufacturers,'' said Nariman Behravesh, chief economist at Global Insight in Lexington, Mass. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); PRICE INCREASES (55%); INTEREST RATES (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%)

PERSON: NARIMAN BEHRAVESH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2007



54 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Takeover Deals Give Shares a Modest Lift

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street managed a moderate advance yesterday as a spate of takeover deals outweighed a report showing that manufacturing activity was more sluggish than expected in March.
 Big acquisitions announced before trading began included deals to take private First Data, the credit card transaction processor, and the Tribune Company, the media conglomerate. But gains were limited by a report from the Institute for Supply Management, which showed its manufacturing index falling to 50.9 last month, from 52.3; the expected reading was 51.0.
In another report, which put pressure on technology stocks, the Semiconductor Industry Association said that chip sales in February fell to $20.09 billion, from $21.48 billion in January, because of seasonal weakness, lower manufacturing capacity and price cuts. 
 Wall Street has traded nervously the last few weeks on concerns about rising inflation and the overall health of the economy.
 William Poole, president of the St. Louis Federal Reserve, said in a speech to bankers in New York yesterday that inflation was still a ''major concern.'' He said that inflation levels could require more rate increases and that a recession remained conceivable. But Mr. Poole's comments had little lasting impact.
 ''If you're listening to the Fed, this is just more of the same -- I think the focus is going to turn from little bits of data on inflation to earnings very quickly,'' said Matt Kelmon, portfolio manager of the Kelmoore Strategy Funds. 
 The Dow rose 27.95 points, to 12,382.30, or 404 points below its record close, which was reached Feb. 20.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 3.69 points, to 1,424.55, and the Nasdaq composite index edged up 0.62 point, to 2,422.26.
 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies gained 2.51 points, to 803.22.
 Oil prices advanced slightly, rising 7 cents, to $65.94, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 First Data spiked $5.55, to $32.45, after Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company agreed to take it private for about $29 billion in one of the largest private equity deals of the year.
 Tribune accepted a buyout offer from the real estate investor Samuel Zell in a deal valued at about $8.2 billion. Shares of the company, which owns The Chicago Tribune, rose 70 cents, to $32.81.
 Shares of Kraft Foods fell 81 cents, to $30.85, after it was spun off from its former parent, the Altria Group. Altria, the maker of Marlboro cigarettes, rose $2.31, to $68.22.
 Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide rose $2.97, to $67.82, after announcing that Steven J. Heyer had resigned as chief executive and a director after the company's board lost confidence in his leadership. The company also reaffirmed its first-quarter and full-year guidance.
 Home lenders were weak after New Century Financial filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy and M&T Bank said it expected first-quarter profit to be hurt by its mortgage business. Shares of M&T fell $9.88, to $105.95. Countrywide Financial fell 91 cents, to $32.73.
 Shares of Apple rose 74 cents, to $93.65, after it reached an agreement with the EMI Group to sell the record label's songs online without copy protection software. The deal, however, did not include the Beatles catalog.
 The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was unchanged at 99 28/32, and the yield remained at 4.64 percent. 
 Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auctions of 13-day cash management bills and three- and six-month bills.(000 omitted in dollar figures)Price: 99.812Investment Rate: 5.292High Rate: 5.195Low Rate: 5.160Median Rate: 5.180Total applied for: $35,360,700Accepted: $16,000,020Noncompetitive: $1,700The 13-day cash management bills mature April 16, 2007.(000 omitted in dollar figures)


	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.758	97.537	High Rate	 4.910	 4.870	Investment Rate	 5.055	 5.076	Low Rate	 4.875	 4.830	Median Rate	 4.900	 4.855	Total applied for	$48,324,489	$41,280,074	Accepted	$24,092,709	$19,873,079	Noncompetitive	$1,933,246	$1,739,267	Both issues are dated April 05, 2007. The three-month bills mature on July 05, 2007 and the six-month bills mature on October 04, 2007.
 (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Dow minute-by-minute''Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average from 10 a.m. through 4 p.m. yesterday.Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); TAKEOVERS (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BONDS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INFLATION (90%); GOING PRIVATE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); TOBACCO MFG (89%); MANAGEMENT BUYOUTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); ELECTRONICS (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (77%); RECESSION (76%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); HOTEL CHAINS (72%); SEMICONDUCTORS (72%); PLANT CAPACITY (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); MORTGAGE BANKING (67%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (65%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (64%); RESORTS (64%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (62%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); CREDIT CARDS (57%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: ALTRIA GROUP INC (81%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%); KKR & CO LP (63%); STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS WORLDWIDE INC (61%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (51%); NEW CENTURY FINANCIAL CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (57%)

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (81%); KKR (NYSE) (63%); HOT (NYSE) (61%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (81%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (63%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (63%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (61%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (61%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (50%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (50%)

PERSON: SAMUEL ZELL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2007



55 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and South Korea Agree to Sweeping Trade Deal

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, April 2 

 BODY:
United States and South Korean negotiators struck the world's largest bilateral free trade agreement on Monday, giving the United States a badly needed lift to its trade policy at home and South Korea a chance to reinvigorate its export economy. 
 Negotiators announced the agreement, the culmination of a 10-month effort.
''This is a strong deal for America's farmers and ranchers, who will gain substantial new access to Korea's large and prosperous market of 48 million people,'' Karan K. Bhatia, the deputy United States trade representative, said in Seoul Monday . 
 ''Neither side obtained everything it sought,'' he added. 
 If ratified, the trade deal would eliminate tariffs on more than 90 percent of the product categories traded between the countries. South Korea agreed to lift trade barriers to important American products like cars and beef, while the United States agreed to allow Seoul to continue to subsidize South Korean rice. 
 The agreement is a significant victory for the Bush administration, which needed a prominent deal with clear benefits for American producers to shore up support for bilateral trade pacts with Panama, Peru and Colombia, which have thus far received a cool reception from a skeptical Congress. 
 Free trade between the United States and South Korea -- the world's largest and 11th-largest economies, respectively -- could give American companies an important stronghold in Asia, where they have steadily ceded market share to European, Japanese and Chinese competitors. 
 The deal may also prompt a wave of bilateral trade pacts as an alternative to stalled multilateral negotiations under the World Trade Organization, economists said Monday. 
 As South Korean workers and farmers protested in the streets -- on Sunday, one man even set himself on fire -- negotiators haggled to the end early Monday. 
 The breakthrough came when both sides compromised on the most delicate deal-breaking issues. Washington dropped its demand that the South Korean government stop protecting its politically powerful rice farmers, and Seoul agreed to resume imports of American beef, halted three years ago over fears of mad cow disease, if, as expected, the World Organization on Animal Health declares United States meat safe in a ruling next month. 
 South Korea also agreed to phase out the 40 percent tariff on American beef over 15 years. It will remove an 8 percent duty on cars and revise a domestic vehicle tax system that United States officials say discriminates against American cars with bigger engines. 
 The United States will eliminate the 2.5 percent tariff on South Korean cars with engines smaller than 3,000 cubic centimeters; phase out the 25 percent duty on trucks over the course of 10 years; and remove tariffs, which average 8.9 percent, on 61 percent of South Korean textiles.
 Both sides also agreed to discuss the treatment of goods made at an industrial park in Kaesong in North Korea, a capitalist experiment by South Korea in engaging its neighbor. The project has drawn criticism from the United States. 
 The trade deal ''will generate export opportunities for U.S. farmers, ranchers, manufacturers and service suppliers, promote economic growth and the creation of better-paying jobs in the United States,'' President Bush said in a letter notifying Congress of his intention to sign the accord. 
 President Bush said that the trade pact would strengthen ties between the countries -- an assessment shared by analysts who had repeatedly warned that the alliance, forged during the Korean War, has frayed during the terms of Mr. Bush and President Roh Moo-hyun of South Korea, largely over policy toward North Korea. 
 The deal is the biggest of its kind for the United States since the North American Free Trade Agreement in 1994 with Canada and Mexico. It is Washington's first bilateral trade pact with a major Asian economy. 
 Studies have estimated that the accord would add $20 billion to bilateral trade, estimated last year at $78 billion. Potential gains to the United States economy range from $17 billion to $43 billion, according to Usha C. H. Haley, director of the Global Business Center at the University of New Haven. South Korea's exports to the United States are expected to rise in the first year by 12 percent. 
 Analysts doubt that the deal will provide an immediate lift to American car manufacturers. Only 5,000 American cars were sold here last year, while South Korean automakers sold 800,000 vehicles in the United States. The gap accounted for 80 percent of the $13 billion United States trade deficit with South Korea last year. 
 American officials hope that the deal will placate American cattle farmers, who are struggling to recapture global market share after an outbreak of mad cow disease in late 2003. Before the import ban, South Korea was the world's third-largest consumer of American beef, importing $800 million a year. 
 Consumers in both countries are the deal's biggest winners. Hyundai cars and Samsung flat-panel TV sets, as well as Korean-made clothing, will become significantly cheaper in the United States. 
 American beef and oranges, as well as Ford cars and Toyota vehicles built in the United States, will be more affordable in South Korea. South Korean TV networks will be able to broadcast more American movies and TV series like ''CSI,'' which already command a huge following here, after Seoul eases a cap on foreign content to 80 percent of total airtime from 75 percent. 
 The deal entails heavy political costs for South Korea, which can expect the loss of tens of thousands of farming jobs. Up to 2 trillion won ($2.2 billion) in agricultural revenue will be lost as cheap American corn, soybeans and processed foods come in, according to studies by South Korean economists. 
 Once hailed for seeking a greater distance from Washington, President Roh now stands accused by his leftist supporters of turning his country into the 51st state of the United States. 
 But the South Korean government is desperate to reverse a decline in its competitiveness, as a resurgent Japan outspends it in research and development, and China offers an ever-increasing variety of goods produced with cheap labor. 
 ''President Roh believes the free trade agreement with the United States will serve as a springboard for South Korea to become an advanced economy,'' said Mr. Roh's spokesman, Yoon Seung-yong. 
 The Bush administration wanted to conclude negotiations with South Korea before its authority to send fast-track agreements to Congress expired July 1. Congress must ratify or reject a trade deal submitted under the special authority, but cannot amend it.
 Originally, United States officials said a deal with Seoul needed to be concluded by March 31 in order to take advantage of that fast-track authority, but later said the deadline was April 1. Soon after midnight Sunday, the White House released Mr. Bush's letter to Congressional leaders, dated April 1.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 9, 2007

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day on Tuesday about the free-trade agreement between South Korea and the United States misstated a middle initial for the director of the Global Business Center at the University of New Haven, who discussed the benefits of the deal to the American economy. She is Usha C. V. Haley, not Usha C. H.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Wendy Cutler, a United States trade official, and Kim Jong-hoon, chief negotiator for South Korea. (Photo by Lee Jin-man/Associated Press)(pg. C1)
A protest against trade talks in Seoul yesterday. In the end, the United States agreed to allow Seoul to continue to subsidize South Korean rice. (Photo by Lee Jin-man/Associated Press)
 Karan K. Bhatia, left, the deputy United States trade representative, and Kim Hyun-chong, the South Korean trade minister. (Photo by Lee Jin-man/Associated Press)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); BEEF (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); RICE FARMING (76%); MARKET SHARE (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (68%); FOOD SAFETY (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); BURN INJURIES (63%); FIRES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); PERU (79%); ASIA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2007



56 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: Racing to Make Surf City Beach Safe by May 25, Opening Day

BYLINE: By JILL P. CAPUZZO

DATELINE: SURF CITY, N.J., April 2 

 BODY:
Much of the sand along this popular 18-mile barrier island had washed away, leaving sections of beach with barely enough room to spread a towel. 
 After battles with surfers fearful of shifting wave patterns and homeowners concerned that their expensive ocean views would be blocked by sand dunes, the United States Army Corps of Engineers got started, leaving behind a renourished 200-foot-wide beach in the middle of Long Beach Island.
 That is not all it left, however. About a month ago it was discovered that mixed in with the 500,000 cubic yards of sand dredged from the ocean floor were several unexploded military fuses, and now the Corps of Engineers is racing to make sure that Surf City's 1.4-mile stretch of beach -- the lifeblood of this borough -- will be safe for bathers when the season begins in two months. 
 ''We have to verify if they're dangerous, and then call the proper organizations out to clear them out, '' said Keith Watson, project manager from the Philadelphia office of the Corps of Engineers. ''Depending on what we find, it could go from a little time to more than we want to know.''
 The entire beach here has been closed since March 5, when a resident with a metal detector found a rusty fuse as he strolled at the edge of the surf. Since then, about 30 fuses and adaptors -- believed to be from World War II-vintage ordnance -- have been found, some as recently as last week. 
 On Tuesday morning, the Corps will begin an intensive sweep of the beach to determine how many other potentially explosive devices are lying in the newly replenished sand that was scraped from the ocean floor three miles offshore. The investigative phase is expected to take two weeks, while the time needed to remove what is found will depend on what the sweep uncovers. 
 ''After the characterization comes the digging, and that's the part that becomes more time-consuming,'' Mr. Watson said.
 Last Friday the Corps tested its sweeping system -- a flatbed trailer equipped with four powerful ground-penetrating metal detectors called magnetometers that will crawl along the entire stretch of beach, marking and recording the sites where metal objects -- from old ordnance to wristwatches -- are detected. 
 That was about the time that the state's two United States senators, Robert Menendez and Frank R. Lautenberg, sent a letter to the Corps urging that the beach be cleaned up by Memorial Day. 
 ''We believe the Corps can and must take whatever steps necessary to ensure that the beach at Surf City is clear and safe before the start of the summer season on May 25, 2007,'' the letter read. ''Any economic disruption during this critical time of year could have disastrous consequences.'' 
 Indeed, the prospect of deflecting vacationers to places up and down the island from Barnegat Light to Beach Haven has many residents and business owners worried. 
 ''If people want to come down to the beach, and they can't get onto the beach, there's no doubt it could hurt business,'' said the general manager of the Surf City Hotel, Tom Gentry, whose 26-room hotel, with its 150-seat restaurant, is a leading destination.
 Ann Tambini, who came here last Friday to open her beach house, was surprised to find the entrance to the beach at the end of her street peppered with ''danger'' signs and closed off with plastic orange fencing. When she asked at the borough hall what was going on, she was told the beaches would be closed for at least the next two weeks.
 ''It's really disappointing,'' said Ms. Tambini, who lives on Staten Island. ''Easter is next weekend and we're having people down who wanted to come and see the new expanded beach.''
 Ruth Bauer is annoyed because she cannot take her daily walks along the beach. 
 ''I don't think they're going to detonate after sitting in saltwater at the bottom of the ocean for 50 years,'' said Ms. Bauer, who has owned a house here since 1965. 
 But Tim Rider, a spokesman for the 754th Ordnance Company at Fort Monmouth, where the objects were taken, said some of the recovered munitions contained unexploded powder. If detonated, Mr. Rider said, the devices could still maim or even kill.
 ''Everything has to be treated like it is an explosive,'' Mr. Watson of the Corps said. 
 The unwelcome discovery came at the end of the first phase of a controversial $71 million beach replenishment project planned for most of the towns on Long Beach Island. 
 The discovery of the munitions is hardly the project's first stumbling block. Surfers up and down the island have voiced concern that the replenishment would alter wave patterns, and homeowners of multimillion-dollar beachfront houses in communities to the north and south are distraught because the project will leave a 22-foot-high sand dune blocking their view. 
 So far, Surf City is the only town on the island where all necessary easements have been granted to allow the project to move forward.
 Mr. Watson acknowledged that this latest development could add fuel to the arguments of those opposed to the replenishment, although he said that in the next phases screens would be placed over the intake valves on the sand pumps. 
 ''That's the nature of this island,'' he said. ''You're going to have some people against it, and some people for it. But it's a positive project and it's vital to get it done for all the communities.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: When sand from the ocean floor was used to replenish the beach at Surf City, military fuses and adaptors turned up. (Photo by U.S. Army Corps of Engineers)(pg. B1)
 The Army Corps of Engineers has been sweeping the beach at Surf City with scanning equipment to unearth any fuses or other metal objects. (Photo by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times)(pg. B5)Map of New Jersey highlighting Surf City: Long Beach Island, N.J., is linked to Manahawkin by a causeway. (pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEACHES (92%); ARMIES (90%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (90%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (90%); SURFING (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); METAL DETECTORS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); OCEANS (77%); UNEXPLODED ORDNANCE (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%) Beaches; Accidents and Safety; Bombs and Explosives; World War II (1939-45); Dredges and Dredging; Beaches

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (58%) Army Corps of Engineers

PERSON: FRANK LAUTENBERG (56%); BOB MENENDEZ (50%) Jill P Capuzzo

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Surf City (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2007



57 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2187 words

HEADLINE: Classical Music Looks Toward China With Hope

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN and DANIEL J. WAKIN; Joseph Kahn reported from Beijing and Daniel J. Wakin from New York. Rujun Shen contributed reporting from Shanghai.

DATELINE: BEIJING, April 1 

 BODY:
Yu Zhenyang, a self-assured 15-year-old violinist with a picture of Jascha Heifetz in his bedroom, glided through the Mendelssohn Concerto from memory. His teacher bounded across the room, flailing his arms, swooning to demonstrate pathos and urging Zhenyang to play with more passion. 
 ''You are the lead,'' said the teacher, Lin Yaoji. ''Be bolder. Stretch the distance between the notes, and then close the distance. I don't want symmetry. Surprise me.''
Zhenyang is one of the brightest young stars at the Central Conservatory of Music in Beijing, which has in recent years become part of China's huge export machine churning out musical virtuosos. 
 With the same energy, drive and sheer population weight that has made it an economic power, China has become a considerable force in Western classical music. Conservatories are bulging. Provincial cities demand orchestras and concert halls. Pianos and violins made in China fill shipping containers leaving its ports. 
 The Chinese enthusiasm suggests the potential for a growing market for recorded music and live performances just as an aging fan base and declining record sales worry many professionals in Europe and the United States. Sales for a top-selling classical recording in the West number merely in the thousands instead of the tens of thousands 25 years ago. 
 More profoundly, classical music executives say that the art form is being increasingly marginalized in a sea of popular culture and new media. Fewer young American listeners find their way to classical music, largely because of the lack of the music education that was widespread in public schools two generations ago. As a result many orchestras and opera houses struggle to fill halls.
 China, with an estimated 30 million piano students and 10 million violin students, is on an opposite trajectory. Comprehensive tests to enter the top conservatories now attract nearly 200,000 students a year, compared with a few thousand annually in the 1980s, according to the Chinese Musicians Association.
 The hardware side has also exploded. As of 2003, 87 factories made Western musical instruments. By last year the number had grown to 142, producing 370,000 pianos, one million violins and six million guitars. China dominates world production of all three.
 The Communist Party, which three decades ago was trying to wipe out classical music, now deems it an essential component of the ''advanced culture'' it vows to create to make the country a true great power.
 At the same time European classical music has a charge of pop-culture frisson in China. Young people flock to concerts, or at least those they can afford. A woman at a Beijing bookstore was seen carrying Mozart's portrait in her wallet. Piano showrooms look like auto dealerships, with coddled youth staging impromptu recitals on Baldwins and Yamahas made in China, as anxious parents haggle over prices. Stars like Lang Lang, the piano virtuoso, make television commercials.
 ''Music is hot in China,'' said Chen Hung-Kuan, the chairman of the piano department at the Shanghai Conservatory. ''It may be fading in Western countries,'' he added, but in China the talent is ''unlimited.'' 
 Harnessing that talent has not always been smooth. Parents view acceptance to an elite conservatory not only as a passage into the world of art but also as an escape from poverty. Teachers push their students to master technical showpieces by rote to impress judges at the standardized nationwide competitions that serve as entrance exams for top schools.
 China at its best produces virtuosos who can compete worldwide. But it has yet to develop a deep, sustainable culture in Western music. It has no symphony orchestra that ranks with a major orchestra in the United States, most critics say. Fans here flock to hear greats from the West but often shun the high prices to hear local performers.
 The government has a complex bordering on mania when it comes to building concert halls. Some are white elephants, constructed hastily with little attention to programming or economic viability.
 But optimists hope that these are growing pains for an art form that only a few decades ago, during the Cultural Revolution, was suppressed. Today classical music arouses few of the political and nationalist sensitivities that have made it harder for other kinds of Western culture or media to take root in China. 
 ''Music is the least national of the arts,'' said Wu Zuqiang, a composer, a former director of the Central Conservatory and a government adviser on the arts. ''It crosses cultures more easily than anything else.'' 
 One of the clearest signs that classical music has official approval in China came from Li Lanqing, a retired member of the ruling Politburo Standing Committee and former minister of education. Mr. Li wrote a lengthy, loving tribute to 50 Western composers in which he argued that you cannot be a true intellectual if you don't understand Western classical music.
 In a surprisingly bold statement he said that Chinese composers should ''borrow theory and technique from European classical music to reform Chinese music.'' 
 What Mr. Li called for was the revival of a longstanding goal. European classical music has long if not deep roots in China and has been associated with modernity for centuries. The Jesuit Matteo Ricci brought a clavichord when he visited China in the late 16th century. An Italian missionary, Teodoricus Pedrini, arrived in Beijing in 1711 and wrote court music for Emperor Kangxi.
 Western music flourished here in the early 20th century. It even enjoyed strong support by Communist leaders until the Cultural Revolution. When China's ''reform and opening'' policy took hold in the late 1970s, Western music started making a significant comeback. Chinese musicians began flowing to the United States. 
 By the 1990s members of the Politburo boasted of their love for classical music. President Jiang Zemin said he consoled himself after the death of the paramount leader Deng Xiaoping in 1997 by listening to Mozart's Requiem.
 But elite support may count for less than the upsurge in interest among Chinese nationwide, including millions of parents and youth far outside Beijing, Shanghai and the other modern cities.
 That trend began, paradoxically, just as Mao Zedong was trying to wipe out remnants of Western bourgeois influence. Musical talent was one of the few things that could offer an escape from harsh labor in the countryside, where millions of urban youth were sent to commune with peasants.
 ''Every kid -- you have 10 fingers, you were playing something at that time,'' said Li-Kuo Chang, the Chinese-born assistant principal violist of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. ''Whether you have talent or not, that was a way of saving you to be sent to the factory or farm.'' 
 The Cultural Revolution gave rise to a hunger for music. When it ended, people were ''so thirsty to suck everything in,'' said Yu Long, one of China's most energetic conductors and musical entrepreneurs. 
 Mr. Yu described his own initiation. One day in 1976 his grandfather approached him with a ''mysterious smile'' and played a tape of Mozart's Symphony No. 40. ''I suddenly felt in another world,'' Mr. Yu said. ''I decided to go abroad and study. It opened a whole new world for me.''
 More recently China's family-planning policy, which limits most urban parents to a single child, prompted many to treat their offspring like prodigies. 
 Children are being pushed to study an instrument, both as a possible means of advancement in the country's hypercompetitive school system and as a way of creating respectable, well-rounded adults. Increased prosperity means that more families can pay for lessons, which has turned private teaching into a lucrative profession.
 ''We have the chance to give the best to our kids,'' Mr. Yu said. ''Not like our parents.''
 The story of Yu Zhenyang, the Mendelssohn-playing student, is not unusual. He started playing violin at 7 in a mandatory arts class in Jingzhou, in Hubei province. His teacher, a graduate of the Central Conservatory, recognized his talent and persuaded his parents to allow him to specialize in music. At 9 he won a national youth violin competition, and two years later he tested high enough to enter the middle school attached to the Central Conservatory.
 His mother, Yu Ya, gave up her job and moved with him to Beijing. ''Our feeling was that he was not only the pride of our family, but actually of the whole town,'' said Ms. Yu, who accompanies Zhenyang to classes, rehearsals and performances, often with a video camera. The family, with little savings of its own, borrows from friends to pay the steep tuition and the rent for part of a small walk-up apartment near the school. 
 Zhenyang sleeps and practices in the only bedroom. ''He has to have a room that's big enough to practice, or it doesn't sound right,'' Ms. Yu said. She sleeps on a cot tucked along the wall of the hallway outside. 
 Zhenyang said his goal was to play so well that musical experts around the world would not be able to tell his nationality unless they looked at his face. ''Much of what people talk about as being identifiable as the Chinese accent in music is really just not measuring up to the international standard,'' he said. ''It's subtle, but you can hear the same flaws in the performances of people trained in China. That's what I want to overcome.''
 The insight hints at one of the obstacles Chinese musical experts feel that the country still faces. Classical music, Chinese critics say, is still treated too often like a technology that can be mastered with the right combination of capital, labor and quality control. But a combination of technique, culture and creativity are needed to create playing that sounds spontaneous, sensitive and rich in emotion -- not wooden and shaped by a cookie cutter.
 Yu Long, the conductor, said the major obstacle to spreading musical culture was not money but the state-run education system, which focuses on prizes and status among young musicians and teachers. Though awards are seen to bring credit to society, they do little to enhance people's appetite for music. ''It cannot be like a race,'' Mr. Yu said. ''It is about beauty and feeling.'' And music must be seen as part of a larger culture, he added, as in the West. ''Here people lock themselves up in a practice room and think they can make great music,'' he said.''
 There are other concerns. While government support for classical music is clearly strong, critics say China has misallocated hundreds of millions of dollars on elaborate concert halls. That money might have been better spent, they suggest, on music education and affordable performances. 
 The trend began in Shanghai in the 1990s, when city leaders decided they needed a great opera house to compete with other international cities. The city set aside a prime plot of land next to the new government headquarters. The striking French-designed glass-and-steel structure cost $160 million.
 Critics say city officials have spent far less time and money on managing the house. Its administrators, under pressure to recoup the big investment, have set New York prices for many shows despite Shanghai's much lower average standard of living. The city pressures state-owned companies to purchase seats to fill the house.
 Communist Party leaders have dreamed of having an even grander performance center in Beijing since the 1950s. President Jiang revived the idea in the 1990s and selected the block just west of Tiananmen Square. The government chose another French architect, Paul Andreu. 
 The National Theater, as it is called, is already widely considered a white elephant, even before it has opened. The project is four years late and, by local media estimates, at least $100 million over its already enormous $400 million budget.
 Communist Party leaders argued for years over who should run the National Theater. No agency wanted to take responsibility if it had to assume the cost of operating its four performance halls. Finally, late last year, the Beijing city government was named the operator. But no formal opening has been announced.
 Beijing needs a space for music that is bigger and more sophisticated acoustically, but the government mishandled the project, said Wu Zuqiang, the government arts adviser, who consulted on the theater during its design phase in the 1990s.
 Classical music in China faces other obstacles. The quality of instruments in conservatory orchestras, particularly woodwinds and brasses, is poor. Not enough time is given to chamber music, vital to building the skills of listening and playing together with sensitivity. Some wonder how much Western traditions can be assimilated. 
 ''There's no question the talent is there,'' said Joseph W. Polisi, president of the Juilliard School. ''The commitment to Western art music is definitely there. But is that talent prepared to absorb what we have here?''The Classical Revolution
 This is the first in a series of articles looking at China's embrace of Western classical music.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, students rehearsing at a Beijing middle school
right, Yu Zhenyang, a violinist, with his mother, Yu Ya, who quit her job to bring him to a conservatory in Beijing
bottom right, Beijing's National Theater. (Photographs by Miranda Mimi Kuo for The New York Times)(pg. A8)
 Yu Zhenyang, a 15-year-old violinist studying at the Central Conservatory of Music in Beijing, during a lesson with his teacher, Lin Yaoji. (Photo by Niva Whyman for The New York Times)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENT & SUPPLY STORES (73%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (72%); RECORD INDUSTRY (72%); OPERA (72%); SALES FIGURES (71%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%); POLITICAL PARTIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2007



58 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: Urban Challenges

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''A Rail System (and Patience) Stretched Thin in Chicago'' (news article, March 26): 
 The cataclysmic struggles of Chicago's El system are a mere glimpse into the enormous infrastructure challenges facing cities all over the country.
From overstuffed schools to crumbling water systems to Internet dead zones, Americans need to get their heads around the billions of dollars we need to fix these aging yet crucial backbone services. We've let these admittedly costly projects go unaddressed for too long. 
 The challenges are especially urgent in America's low-income urban neighborhoods and working-class inner-ring suburbs -- communities that can least afford to be cut off from more economic and social opportunities. 
 Infrastructure spending on new schools, more public transit and broader Internet access can help spread opportunity throughout all communities. Unless we work now to finance these projects, the struggles of El commuters will just be the beginning.Judith BellOakland, Calif., March 27, 2007The writer is the president of PolicyLink, an institute that develops policies to achieve economic and social equity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); BUDGETS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (73%); WRITERS (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (71%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (71%); CITIES (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%) Transit Systems; Light Rail Systems; Budgets and Budgeting; Buses; Finances

ORGANIZATION: PolicyLink (Org)

PERSON: Judith Bell

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) Chicago (Ill)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2007



59 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: The Cycle Turns, and Airline Shares Have Fans Again

BYLINE: By JEFF BAILEY

 BODY:
If everything goes perfectly -- and that is a big if -- the airline industry could report record profits this year.
 Be warned, though, airline stocks are mostly speculative investments, and it is easier to lose money than to make it, given the industry's past performance.
The Air Transport Association, an airline trade group, expects industry profits to be $4 billion this year, which is an improvement over modest operating profits last year. But some analysts think that the industry could top the record of about $5.4 billion in profit, set in 1999. 
 Those profit projections, and a recent decline in airline shares, have some analysts recommending airline stocks as cheap and likely to rally as profits pile up. 
 ''It's time to buy the airlines again,'' Bob McAdoo, an analyst at the Prudential Equity Group, told clients in a March report. He has perhaps the most bullish view among Wall Street airline analysts, with 2007 profit projections that would easily set an industry record.
 Even with just a modest industry recovery thus far, some airline stocks have staged remarkable advances. American Airlines, for those prescient enough to snatch up shares near the bottom of $1.25 in March 2003, hit $41 recently. They closed yesterday at $30.33 a share.
 Continental Airlines, at $3.65 in October 2002, hit $52.40 recently. Yesterday, the stock closed at $36.05. And US Airways more than tripled after its September 2005 stock offering, to $63.27, before settling back in recent weeks. It finished yesterday's trading at $45.05.
 While those are impressive gains, a bet on Delta Air Lines or Northwest Airlines, which both filed for bankruptcy protection in September 2005, meant a total wipeout for investors.
 But as Delta and Northwest plan to exit bankruptcy proceedings in coming months, they will convert creditors' claims into new stock. Initial estimates put Delta's market capitalization at $10 billion and Northwest's at $8 billion.
 United Airlines, a unit of the UAL Corporation, emerged from bankruptcy a little more than a year ago with new shares of its own.
 The bankruptcies, along with efforts by airlines not in bankruptcy, have drastically reduced labor costs and some other expenses. A sharp reduction in the combined fleets of big carriers, meanwhile, curbed capacity just as a growing economy stimulated demand for airline tickets. So planes are mostly full and airlines have been able to raise fares -- by about 15 percent last year alone.
 All of that has meant profits again for an industry that racked up more than $30 billion of losses after Sept. 11. Last year, with the exception of big reorganization charges that produced losses at Delta and Northwest, was a modestly profitable year. 
 If oil prices spike again, or the economy falters, profits could be modest once more this year. 
 Mr. McAdoo, the Prudential analyst, is an optimist, and he would have to be, spending more than 30 years either working for airlines -- he was chief executive of a start-up, Vanguard Airlines, in the mid-1990s -- or following their stocks on Wall Street. In the early years of every decade of his career, the industry has swooned.
 Mr. McAdoo projected that American Airlines would record profit of $1.85 billion this year, roughly $500 million higher than some other analysts' estimates. And he put an $88 target price for later this year on US Airways, implying a 95 percent leap from yesterday's close.
 Supporting his generally upbeat view, very few new planes are scheduled for delivery to domestic airlines this year or next, which should keep capacity tight and possibly allow further fare increases. The economy, though not roaring at this point, continues to grow and that typically means strong demand for airline tickets. And airlines continued to reduce costs during 2006, so the industry enters this year leaner as a whole.
 Even Philip Baggaley, who, as a debt analyst at Standard & Poor's, is paid to worry about the downside of the airlines, said, ''It'll be the best year since the 1990s, unless the economy really falls out of bed.''
 But on the horizon, probably in time for another beginning-of-decade slump, are signs of trouble. Labor unions representing pilots, flight attendants, mechanics and others are growing restive as they watch some airline executives collect big pay packages not so long after union members surrendered as much as one-third of their compensation to keep carriers afloat.
 Glenn F. Tilton, chief executive of United, for instance, received 2006 compensation the company valued at $23.8 million. Most United workers are locked into concessionary contracts through the end of the decade, though they are already making noises about raises, and other airline contracts are due for renegotiation sooner.
 ''It's not clear the new, lower cost structure can last until 2010,'' Mr. Baggaley said.
 Carriers also need to freshen their fleets, and that could be expensive.
 With balance sheets still laden with debt, most airlines will remain extremely vulnerable to a slowdown. That will tend to make their stocks volatile. In other words, yes, investors make money on airline stocks, but typically not by holding the shares for the long haul.
 And for investors who wished they had bought at the bottom, be patient: those prices may return.
 Southwest2006 NET INCOME (MILLIONS): +4992007 PROJECTED NET INCOME+ (MILLIONS): +825+Northwest and Delta projections are from the companies' bankruptcy filings. The remainder are from Mr. McAdoo and are generally higher than those of other analysts.*2006 figure covers the 11 months ended Dec. 31 after United emerged from bankruptcy.(Sources by company reports; Prudential Equity Group) 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''At the Airlines, Potentially Big Profits''The last few years have been a tough time for airlines to make money, and a number have been in bankruptcy court. But at least one airline analyst, Bob McAdoo at Prudential Equity Group, is optimistic that reductions in costs and the size of fleets may have set the stage for big profits this year.American2006 NET INCOME (MILLIONS): $+2312007 PROJECTED NET INCOME+ (MILLIONS): +$1,849United* 2006 NET INCOME (MILLIONS): +252007 PROJECTED NET INCOME+ (MILLIONS): +924Delta2006 NET INCOME (MILLIONS): -6,2052007 PROJECTED NET INCOME+ (MILLIONS): +456Continental2006 NET INCOME (MILLIONS): +3432007 PROJECTED NET INCOME+ (MILLIONS): +980Northwest2006 NET INCOME (MILLIONS): -2,8352007 PROJECTED NET INCOME+ (MILLIONS): +794US Airways2006 NET INCOME (MILLIONS): +3042007 PROJECTED NET INCOME+ (MILLIONS): +1,044

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BONDS (77%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); TRAVEL TICKETS (73%); STOCK OFFERINGS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%) Airlines and Airplanes; Stocks and Bonds; Industry Profiles

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (95%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (92%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (90%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (53%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: American Airlines; Amr Corp; Continental Airlines; US Airways

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (95%); UAL (NYSE) (92%); LCC (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (95%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (58%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: Jeff Bailey

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2007



60 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: Grant Thornton Resigns as Fremont's Auditor

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
The auditor of Fremont General, a troubled financial company that is trying to sell its subprime mortgage business, has resigned with a complaint that the company had failed to provide information when promised. 
 The resignation was disclosed by Fremont General in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission after the stock market closed yesterday.
In it, Grant Thornton, the auditing firm, said that it disagreed with statements that the company had made in announcing the departure.
 The departure of the auditing firm, which was hired in August after Fremont fired its former auditor, Ernst & Young, raised questions about when, if ever, the company would be able to file its annual report for 2006, which is already overdue.
 In the S.E.C. filing, Fremont said its audit committee was looking for a new auditor, but added, ''There can be no assurance that the company will be able to retain a new independent registered public accounting firm.''
 According to the filing, Grant Thornton resigned a week ago. Fremont said that in late February, Grant Thornton decided to expand the scope of the audit ''in light of the company's current operating environment and the industry in which it operates,'' and said it had cooperated.
 But in a letter dated yesterday, the auditing firm disagreed with part of that statement. 
 ''During the course of the audit there were instances where the company did not provide certain requested information to Grant Thornton on dates previously agreed upon with management.'' It said that amounted to a ''reportable event'' under S.E.C. rules, meaning it was required to notify the commission of it.
 The regulation it cited covers instances where the auditor sees evidence that could ''materially affect the reliability'' of the company's financial statements.
 The auditor problems provided another jolt to Fremont stock. Its shares, which traded for as much as $31 in 2004, closed at $6.52, down 41 cents, on Monday before the resignation was disclosed. They traded for as little as $5.60 in after-hours trading.
 Grant Thornton, which ranks in the second tier of accounting firms in the United States, just below the Big Four, also resigned as auditor of another subprime lender, Accredited Home Lenders, that company disclosed late Monday.
 Accredited said Grant Thornton had given it a resignation letter, dated March 27, on Friday. It said the company had neither asked for nor accepted the letter of resignation, and added that it would also be unable to file its annual report.
 Accredited said its audit committee was ''reviewing the circumstances'' of the resignation and was seeking a new auditor. The company said it planned to continue making mortgage loans while it looks for one.
 Accredited stock, which traded over $60 a share less than a year ago, fell 79 cents to $8.48 on Monday, before the auditor resignation was disclosed. It traded as low as $7.55 in after-hours trading.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (93%); AUDITS (92%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); ANNUAL REPORTS (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); ACCREDITATION (84%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%) Housing; Mortgages; Interest Rates

COMPANY: GRANT THORNTON INTERNATIONAL LTD (92%); SIGNATURE GROUP HOLDINGS INC (58%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%) Grant Thornton Llp; Fremont General Corp; Accredited Home Lenders

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (92%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2007



61 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: From the Sidelines, a View Of the Middle as the Loser

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
The New American StoryBy Bill Bradley364 pages. Random House. $25.95.
 Bill Bradley, the former United States senator from New Jersey and former presidential candidate, got out of politics in 2000 after losing the Democratic nomination to Al Gore, and so wrote this book, he says, from ''outside the political pressure cooker,'' with ''no ax to grind and no political ambition to accomplish.'' And once the reader gets past the logy, platitude-filled opening pages of ''The New American Story,'' it becomes clear that Mr. Bradley is not going to pull his punches.
He not only excoriates President Bush for his handling of the Iraq war -- which the former senator bluntly calls an ''oil war'' -- and for leading the country ''down a dangerous path toward empire,'' but he's also scathing about his fellow Democrats, who he says are afraid to think big and ''have coasted on the intellectual work of the New Deal'' for decades. 
 Mr. Bradley assails the Bush administration for its deficit spending (fueled, he says, by irresponsible tax cuts), its woeful record on the environment and its mistrust of experts on everything from Iraq to economics. He writes, ''The case can be made that George Bush has destroyed the Republican Party by his profligacy, his arrogance, his stubborn machismo, and his absolute conviction that whatever he does is right.'' 
 He describes Bill Clinton's tenure in the White House as a ''lost opportunity'' and says that that administration's health care initiative failed because ''Hillary Clinton's political skills were not well honed'' and ''mistakes of conception, consultation, pace, and strategy'' were made. 
 In an earlier book, Mr. Bradley noted that in his own case, ''ambition had fueled a desire to please'' and that for much of his career he had ''no authentic political voice,'' campaigning ''not to change the world or shake up my audiences but to please the roomful of people to whom I was speaking.'' It was only in the wake of his near-defeat in the 1990 Senate race in New Jersey, he wrote, that he began ''to speak from my gut as well as my head.'' 
 This time around, Mr. Bradley eschews what he once called ''the comfort of ambiguity or silence'' to set forth views that are bound to be controversial on issues like education, health care and tax policy, and he also provides a tart assessment of national politics today. 
 The reader may well take issue with some of his observations. His suggestion, for instance, that the Democratic Party is ''relatively faction-free'' seems ludicrous, given the many intraparty splits between moderates and liberals, between, say, the Democratic Leadership Council and Web followers of Daily Kos. 
 But most of his suggestions are grounded in an appealing mix of idealism and common sense, and the result is a thoughtful, incisive book animated by an eagerness to grapple with an array of middle-class concerns that bridge red- and blue-state America.
 Contesting the popular notion that the country is deeply polarized, Mr. Bradley cites a 2000 study showing that 52 percent of red-state voters want gun control, 70 percent of blue-state voters favor the death penalty and 62 percent of red-state voters say there should be no job discrimination against gays. He goes on to argue that the growing power of special interest groups -- enhanced by the gerrymandering of Congressional districts, the media's fascination with noisy partisanship and candidates' susceptibility to lobbyists -- is corroding the political process. 
 ''Because their agendas dominate,'' he writes, ''what rarely gets addressed comprehensively is what most people want: affordable health care, excellent schools, adequate pensions, a clean environment, and an economy that generates more and more well-paying jobs. Instead, an inordinate amount of attention goes to issues such as abortion, gay rights, gun control, medical marijuana, the display of the Ten Commandments, the wording of the Pledge of Allegiance, or the subsidy desires of a particular corporation or industry -- issues that don't motivate the majority but are all important to the activists.'' 
 After drubbing the Republicans for requiring ''lockstep adherence to narrow party positions'' and pandering to corporate interests, Mr. Bradley writes that Democrats must learn to ''assert the general interest'' over the agendas of their party's ''special friends'' -- namely, teachers' unions (which he says tend to ''defend the status quo in school organization, student performance and teacher accountability''); trial lawyers (whose litigiousness, he says, has led to higher costs in health care, the ''flight of doctors from their profession, and little improvement in health care delivery''); and the autoworkers' union (which he says has ''opposed higher mileage standards'' and ''opposed requiring companies to shore up private pension systems'').
 As Senator Chuck Schumer did in his recent book, ''Positively American: Winning Back the Middle Class Majority One Family at a Time,'' Mr. Bradley addresses the larger identity crisis afflicting the Democratic Party and the many tactical and strategic disadvantages it faces in taking on a Republican Party that has built up a daunting infrastructure buttressed by research organizations and a well-oiled voter-turnout machine. 
 He articulates a wide array of specific policy suggestions, from raising the age threshold for receiving Social Security to implementing a gasoline tax of $1 a gallon to providing up to $12,000 in college tuition money for high school students in the top third of their graduating classes. 
 He also contends that Democrats must address eight ''perennial curses,'' which include allowing Republicans to dictate the terms of the national debate, failing to enunciate a coherent political philosophy, and looking for the emergence of a charismatic leader like John F. Kennedy, instead of doing the hard work of building a support structure based on ''money, ideas, political language and media outreach'' as the Republicans have done. 
 In Mr. Bradley's view, the Iraq war isn't the only thing threatening to derail the Republican machine; it's also that the presidency of George W. Bush has undermined the uneasy Republican coalition of disparate groups like fundamentalists, libertarians, neo-conservatives and supply-siders. 
 ''The Medicare drug entitlement has denied them the platform of 'limited government','' the former senator writes. ''A first term without one presidential veto even as federal spending increased 33 percent has denied them the platform of 'fiscal responsibility.' The Iraq War has destroyed the idea that they are advocates of a sober, limited foreign policy.'' 
 And ''the opening up of government coffers to industry special interests by granting them obscenely generous special favors has embarrassed those Republicans who believe that the market, not Congress, is the most efficient allocator of resources.'' 
 Mr. Bradley ends this perspicacious book by calling for a new kind of politics that would transcend red-state/blue-state partisanship, and that would emphasize consensus over what ''purists'' on both the left and right put at the top of their agendas. 
 ''I believe,'' he concludes, ''that in a world in which activists and political consultants focus on peripheral issues -- even in a world in which few elections are legitimately contested and money seems a necessary evil -- the political party that emphasizes what 70 percent of the people care about will be in power for a generation.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bill Bradley (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Reuters)(pg. E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); LITERATURE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); IRAQ WAR (69%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (77%) Michiko Kakutani; Bill Bradley

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2007



62 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; A NEWSPAPER SHAKE-UP; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1419 words

HEADLINE: For Tribune Buyer, a Storm to the West

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON and SHARON WAXMAN

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 2 

 BODY:
The Los Angeles Times was nothing but trouble for the Tribune Company, and it may prove even more of a challenge for its new owner, Samuel Zell.
 Ever since the Tribune Company bought the Times Mirror Company in 2000 -- and, with it The Los Angeles Times -- there has been a culture clash between the Chicago-based owners at Tribune and its marquee California newspaper. The schism seems to have helped fuel things like the public criticism that the paper is out of touch and the recent battles in the newsroom that have led to high-profile resignations.
The tension has been particularly pronounced throughout the deal-making process, which pitted Mr. Zell, a Chicago resident, against a pair of Los Angeles businessmen, Ronald W. Burkle and Eli Broad. Also in the running was a Hollywood mogul, David Geffen, who yesterday reaffirmed his interest in either acquiring The Los Angeles Times outright or buying a stake in it and running it.
 But the backdrop of wounded civic pride was only one factor that provoked cries of dismay from the newsroom and the community yesterday at the news that Mr. Zell had prevailed. There was also the fact that Mr. Zell has stated that he has no interest in newspapers, and that he is taking the corporate reins at a critical time of declining circulation. 
 ''It's scary,'' said Nick Goldberg, editor of the paper's Op-ed page. ''The problem is, as of right now we know nothing about the guy. He hasn't expressed any real philosophy about the company, to my knowledge, or any indication of what he plans to do. We're just sitting here waiting to hear.''
 At the newspaper's headquarters on Spring Street, the newsroom ground to a halt Monday morning as several hundred members of the staff attended a videoconference by the Tribune Company chairman, Dennis J. FitzSimons, who has been the focus of much of the tension between Los Angeles and Chicago. 
 Mr. FitzSimons explained details of the deal with Mr. Zell, which involves a complex component of employee ownership, and fielded questions. But he did not have an answer to a question about Mr. Zell's vision for the company, and Mr. Zell did not speak at the event. 
 At the meeting, David Hiller, the publisher of The Los Angeles Times, depicted the change in ownership as a positive step, suggesting that the company, which will become privately owned, would be under less pressure to produce short-term profits.
 ''You can plan for the next five years, rather than the next five months,'' Mr. Hiller said at the meeting, according to people who were there. But he also said that the newspaper was going ahead with planned staff reductions, which are expected to cut $7.5 million in costs but have served as a flashpoint for controversy in the newsroom. 
 Like most major newspapers, The Los Angeles Times has been losing circulation. The last figures by the Audit Bureau of Circulation, in late October, showed that The Times had lost 8 percent of its daily circulation -- down to 776,000 subscribers -- and 6 percent on Sunday, down to 1.17 million subscribers. The decreases were higher than the national average of 2.8 percent. 
 The paper's editor, James O'Shea, said in an interview Monday that he believed the drop had flattened by the end of 2006. He added that the paper's online readership was growing rapidly, though he could not cite specific figures. 
 Mr. O'Shea put a positive gloss on the news, saying that he believed Mr. Zell would allow the paper to continue to function as before, and that he did not put much stock in the speculation that Mr. Zell might immediately turn around and sell The Times to Mr. Geffen or another suitor.
 ''I can't sit here and tell you that Sam Zell has called to say 'Don't worry about a thing,' but I don't see that it would make much sense to sell the L.A. Times,'' Mr. O'Shea said. ''From what I understand, the way Mr. Zell thinks about the future of newspapers and the Internet, this would be a key element of his ownership.''
 Media analysts said that the way Mr. Zell's deal is structured, it would make little sense financially to sell The Times soon, because the tax bill would eat up about 40 percent of the sale price. They said a proposal by Mr. Geffen, the entertainment executive, to pay $2 billion for the paper would probably be insufficient for that reason. 
 But Mr. Geffen said he still held out hope -- and his offer. ''So far, there is no response,'' he said. ''The Los Angeles Times needs someone willing to invest, and more cuts at the newspaper will damage it.''
 The leadership of the Tribune Company has had hostile relations with The Los Angeles Times for some time, while the paper has endured one crisis after another. Both the publisher Jeffrey M. Johnson and the editor Dean Baquet were forced out late last year after they refused to submit to yet another round of staff reductions meant to increase the bottom line. Mr. Baquet has since rejoined The New York Times, where he is the Washington bureau chief and an assistant managing editor. 
 Mr. Hiller was sent from Chicago to try to bring the newsroom in line, but he has largely been perceived as a tool of the corporate leadership, rather than a bridge to the newsroom. 
 Mr. O'Shea, who arrived as Mr. Baquet's replacement from Chicago, has fared better, recently winning the support of the staff in the latest crisis to rock the newsroom, over the publishing of a guest opinion section last month. That dispute, over whether a publicist had unfairly influenced the decision to invite the Hollywood producer Brian Grazer to be a guest editor, ended in a public relations black eye for the paper, with the indignant resignation of the editorial page editor, Andres Martinez, who accused Mr. Hiller of undermining him.
 Outside the newsroom, some community leaders said they were disheartened that Mr. Zell was the winner because he seemed uninterested in the paper's future. ''We've been through several editors and publishers,'' said Jack Kyser, the chief economist at the Los Angeles County Economic Development Corporation. ''Does he do further cuts at the newspaper? Will there be a new editor and publisher? If I had my druthers, I'd rather have Broad and Burkle.''
 Still others expressed concern for the newspaper's future and whether Mr. Zell had the wherewithal to bring a sense of calm and stability to a newsroom in turmoil once an acquisition is completed.
 ''There is fear of another shoe about to drop,'' said Marty Kaplan, who holds the Norman Lear chair in entertainment, media and society at University of Southern California's Annenberg School of Journalism. ''The fear is that they will be squeezed hard, especially when Zell looks at the company's debt. There is all kinds of talk that he might let The Times go. Why have a distant and unruly outpost in his empire?''
 Richard Riordan, the former Los Angeles mayor who is a good friend of Mr. Broad, said he would have preferred to see Mr. Broad and Mr. Burkle prevail because they care about the community and the newspaper, in particular.
 ''What do you do when you have to point out to someone that there is no uptown in Los Angeles and the Valley isn't a place you go camping?'' said Mr. Riordan. ''We want someone that will love L.A. Knowing Sam Zell, he might sell off the pieces.''
 Readers who submitted comments to The Times's Web site also expressed some sentiments that bordered on xenophobia. A sample: ''Sam, zell the L.A. Times and get out of town.''
 Steve Lopez, a columnist for The Times, expressed his disappointment in an article publishedMonday that the ''local boys'' -- the billionaires Mr. Burkle and Mr. Broad -- had been beaten. 
 He wrote that Mr. Zell had ''at least one thing in common'' with Mr. Broad and Mr. Geffen: ''They all have beach houses in Malibu.'' Mr. Lopez added that he had called a local coastal authority ''to see if Zell, like Geffen, has a history of denying beach access to the hoi polloi. If he does -- I'm awaiting a callback -- you'll read it here first.''
 Rather than rolling up their sleeves for a fight, some staff members at The Times said that whatever the outcome, they were relieved to be out of the limbo where the Tribune Company has dangled for the last six months as it considered strategic options.
 On Monday, ''people were swinging wildly between hope and fear -- nobody knows what to do or think or feel,'' said Marjorie Miller, the paper's foreign editor. ''But people think this does give us a little breathing room.''
 200 MIL.Chicago Cubs 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Employees of The Los Angeles Times entered the building. The Times, part of the Tribune Company, was purchased by Samuel Zell. (Photo by Nick Ut/Associated Press)(pg. C5)
 (Photograph by Lars Klove/Illustration by The New York Times)(pg. C1)Chart: ''A Tower Built on Paper''The Tribune Company, long identified with its headquarters tower in Chicago, plans to sell itself for $8.2 billion to Sam Zell, the Chicago real estate tycoon, who plans to take it private in a partnership with a newly formed employee stock ownership plan.PUBLISHING $ 4.1 BILLION IN REVENUE$1.1 BIL.Los Angeles Times2006 circulation: 776,000$900 MIL.Chicago Tribune2006 circulation: 576,000$500 MIL.Newsday411,000$1.6 BIL.Other newspapers and businesses BROADCASTING /ENTERTAINMENT $ 1.4 BILLION$1.2 BIL.Television

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (75%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (95%); TRIBUNE CO (CHICAGO IL) (92%); TIMES MIRROR CO (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (95%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%)

PERSON: SAMUEL ZELL (93%); DENNIS J FITZSIMONS (78%); ELI BROAD (58%); DAVID GEFFEN (58%); RON BURKLE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2007



63 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; A NEWSPAPER SHAKE-UP; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1946 words

HEADLINE: Chicagoan Puts Up $315 Million To Win $8.2 Billion Tribune Co.

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE and RICHARD SIKLOS; Stephen Labaton contributed reporting..

 BODY:
How did a Chicago real estate tycoon win one of the country's premier media companies -- a chain of big-city papers, two dozen television stations and the Chicago Cubs -- in a deal valued at $8.2 billion with an investment of only $315 million of his own money?
 The Tribune Company, which owns The Los Angeles Times, The Chicago Tribune, The Baltimore Sun and other papers, announced yesterday that it had joined forces with Samuel Zell to take the company private and pay shareholders $34 a share.
 Despite being a late entrant, Mr. Zell managed to win the auction for Tribune over a rival team of Los Angeles billionaires, Eli Broad and Ronald W. Burkle, through a combination of savvy dealing and creative financial engineering. It was Mr. Zell who first proposed financing the transaction through an employee stock ownership plan, an arrangement that is typically used by much smaller companies. 
 Most of the company's stock will be owned by the employees through the plan, but Mr. Zell, who becomes the Tribune chairman, will be the largest individual shareholder, leaving him with a major interest for his relatively small investment. 
 And Mr. Zell is a hometown player, not an inconsequential advantage when negotiating with a company characterized by a strong antipathy between the head office in Chicago and its biggest single asset, The Los Angeles Times. The deal ends the legacy of the Chandler family, once of America's great newspaper dynasties. It effectively buys out the family who became the biggest shareholders in Tribune when it bought the Times-Mirror Company in 2000 and whose loud complaints last June about the company's sagging stock price set the auction in motion. 
 Mr. Zell, who has never owned a newspaper before, insists that his interest in Tribune is not editorial but economic. 
 As part of yesterday's announcement, the company said it would sell the Chicago Cubs at the end of the season. But otherwise Mr. Zell has said that he does not want to break up the company by selling off its individual properties or spinning off the television stations. 
 In a statement yesterday, he called himself ''a long-term investor,'' and added, ''I look forward to partnering with the management and employees as we build on the great heritage of Tribune Company.''
 Still David Geffen, the Los Angeles media mogul who made an early bid for The Los Angeles Times, made it clear that he would still like to acquire the newspaper. ''I remain interested and open to talking,'' Mr. Geffen said. Others have expressed interest in Tribune papers, including Newsday, The Hartford Courant and The Baltimore Sun.
 Even Mr. Broad and Mr. Burkle may not be completely out of the picture. They were originally interested in buying The Los Angeles Times, and they still could make a higher bid for the company. Tribune set a relatively low breakup fee of $25 million so that if it wanted to take a higher bid -- and avoid a possible lawsuit -- it could dismiss its deal with Mr. Zell and pay him only $25 million.
 Yesterday's announcement closes a contentious 10-month chapter for the Tribune Company, which occupies the landmark Tribune Tower in downtown Chicago. 
 It also ends a labored auction in which little interest in the company materialized. Wall Street appeared to approve of the move, sending Tribune stock up 70 cents, to close at $32.81.
 Mr. Zell, 65, the son of refugees who fled Poland on the eve of Hitler's invasion, is a self-made billionaire who has thrived on buying distressed businesses, turning them around and selling them at a profit. Newspapers, which face declining revenues and dropping circulations, might fit that description. Like other newspaper owners, Tribune has been hammered on Wall Street in the last few years as advertisers and readers left newspapers for the Web. 
 So far, Mr. Zell has not presented a plan for how he might turn Tribune around. Nonetheless, he was not only the favored bidder, but Tribune executives actively encouraged him over the weekend to match a higher bid from Mr. Burkle and Mr. Broad, who were offering $34 a share to Mr. Zell's $33. Only after raising his bid three times did Mr. Zell match the Burkle-Broad bid, and each time, Tribune executives pushed him to do so.
 They wanted Mr. Zell for many reasons.
 Dennis J. FitzSimons, the company's current president, chief executive and chairman -- who will cede the title of chairman to Mr. Zell when the transaction is complete at the end of the year -- said in an interview that Mr. Zell offered the certainty of closing a deal. The company had been working with him for several weeks when a revised Burkle-Broad offer came in. His offer delayed the company's self-imposed deadline of the end of March by only one day.
 ''The biggest thing we wanted to do was end this process, have a good outcome for shareholders and get focused on the future as opposed to the process,'' Mr. FitzSimons said, weary of the long public deconstruction of Tribune's management.
 Others said that Mr. Zell's legendary success in turning around distressed companies helped get him in the door.
 As James O'Shea, the editor of The Los Angeles Times, put it in a note to his staff yesterday: ''Sam Zell is a creative thinker and an inventive entrepreneur. A fresh shot of new thinking is not going to hurt us.'' Mr. O'Shea added: ''Mr. Zell also says he believes in the future of the news business. That is certainly good to hear.''
 Mr. FitzSimons said that geography did not play a role in the selection of Mr. Zell, and that he had met the real estate mogul only in the last two months when Mr. Zell presented himself as a potential buyer.
 But others close to the talks said that Mr. Zell's Chicago roots gave him an advantage, particularly since the Burkle-Broad team was from Los Angeles. Tribune has been in an open feud with The Los Angeles Times, where the publisher and editor were forced out last year for taking public stands against cost cuts and where the newsroom, which could still see more job cuts, feels under siege. As a matter of pride, Tribune did not want to be seen as bowing to California, these people said.
 Another related factor in Mr. Zell's favor, they said, was that he was explicit about wanting to buy out the Chandler family, who had long been a thorn in Tribune's side. Representatives of the Chandlers who sit on Tribune's board abstained over the weekend from voting to accept Mr. Zell's plan, but they have agreed to support the transaction when it comes up for a shareholder vote later this year.
 Tribune executives may also have liked Mr. Zell's plan because it keeps most of them in place. Mr. FitzSimons said he expected to stay as president and chief executive after the transaction is completed and that many of the current board members would serve on a reconstituted board. And he said Mr. Zell was not likely to be constantly looking over his shoulder.
 ''Sam is chairman of, what, five other companies, and his reputation is that he doesn't micromanage,'' Mr. FitzSimons said.
 Given that Tribune's core business is built on delivering news to readers in a clear and concise fashion, the deal the company announced yesterday was startlingly complex. Mr. Zell will invest an initial $250 million in Tribune shares and securities at a price of $34 a share. The stock ownership plan will also purchase $250 million worth of new Tribune shares, but at a discounted price of $28 a share. Then, in two stages, the company will spend $8.4 billion to buy back the shares, including Mr. Zell's. He will then invest $315 million in new securities, including $90 million for a warrant to buy 40 percent of Tribune's shares.
 Tribune will then become an S corporation, which will exempt it from paying federal income tax. By not paying tax, the Tribune will greatly increase its cash flow, helping it pay down the mountain of debt it is taking on to finance going private. More important for Mr. Zell, only individuals who are United States citizens are eligible to invest in S corporations. That partly explains why only he, Mr. Broad and Mr. Burkle were in the auction at the end.
 The stock ownership plan in particular fostered confusion among some employees. And the overall plan, with its assumption of $8.4 billion in debt in top of nearly $5 billion in existing debt, prompted bond rating services to downgrade Tribune's standing. It also left some wondering how the plan would address the major issues facing the newspaper industry. 
 ''There are a whole bunch of questions, and it's not like Joseph Pulitzer just bought the company,'' said Michael Hill, a reporter at The Baltimore Sun and chairman of the Sun unit of the Washington-Baltimore Newspaper Guild.
 Employees' chief concern, he said, was whether their retirement plans would be affected by the stock ownership plan, although Tribune insists they will not be. 
 ''If this means investing our retirement in the current Tribune management, I don't think people will be very excited about that because there's very little confidence in Tribune management,'' Mr. Hill said.
 Stan Simpson, a columnist at The Hartford Courant, said he was ambivalent about the news of Mr. Zell's involvement. ''The big issue is, does he have a vision for the new company and a plan for the digital age?'' Mr. Simpson said.
 Others said they worried that Mr. Zell would take an ax to the staffs at Tribune papers.
 Mr. FitzSimons told employees yesterday in an electronic town hall meeting that was broadcast companywide that he expected some staff reductions in the next few months, which he hoped to accomplish mostly through attrition. In the interview, he said that he would not fill current vacancies in an attempt to stave off having to make further cuts. But, he cautioned, newspapers everywhere are facing the same challenges. 
 ''We get the headlines, but it's happening all across the industry,'' he said.
 The Tribune agreement still has some regulatory hurdles: any new owner needs waivers from the Federal Communications Commission to own newspapers and broadcast outlets in the same market, but the agency is involved in a major debate about whether to loosen those rules. 
 ''The basis on which they have always sought their exemptions is that the Tribune Company has a special tradition of quality in journalism,'' said Andrew Jay Schwartzman, president of the Media Access Project, an advocacy group that has been critical of efforts to deregulate the industry. ''Zell can't make those claims. He has no tradition of promoting journalism and he's a cost cutter.''
 But Blair Levin, managing director of Stifel Nicolaus & Company, said the challengers to the deal could face an uphill battle. He said that although the two Democrats on the commission may maintain that it was finally time to enforce the restrictions on cross-ownership, the three Republicans who are more critical of those restrictions would probably be more inclined to approve the Tribune deal.
 Tribune was advised by Merrill Lynch and Citigroup; the company's special committee was advised by Morgan Stanley. Mr. Zell was advised by JPMorgan Chase.
 Despite the potential hurdles, some analysts said they were relieved to see the process move forward and hoped that going private would give the company a much-needed break from the spotlight.
 ''It gives them a little time to look at the long-term view, reorganize the company and pursue its strategy without analysts commenting all the time,'' said Edward Atorino, a media analyst with Benchmark Company. ''The $34 a share is not a bad price, given the state of the world of newspaper companies. So Sam Zell could be a stabilizing force.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 10, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article last Tuesday about Samuel Zell's acquisition of the Tribune Company for $8.2 billion misstated one aspect of an ''S'' Corporation, which Tribune will eventually become under the takeover proposal. Foreigners who are residents of the United States can invest in an ''S'' Corporation; investors are not restricted to United States citizens.
 An article in Business Day last Tuesday about Samuel Zell using an Employee Stock Ownership Plan, or ESOP, in a transaction for the Tribune Company omitted a condition for an owner to avoid capital gains taxes on the proceeds of a sale of company shares to such a plan. In addition to the ESOP holding the stock for at least three years, the company has to be private for at least one year before the sale.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Journalists in the Chicago Tribune newsroom yesterday watched the Tribune Company's chairman, Dennis J. FitzSimons, on screen foreground, talk about the company's being taken private. (Photo by Nancy Stone/Chicago Tribune, via Associated Press)
Samuel Zell, a real estate tycoon, beat out several billionaires for Tribune. He said his interest in the company was economic, not editorial. (Photo by M. Spencer Green/Associated Press)
 Wrigley Field, home of the Chicago Cubs. As part of yesterday's announcement, Tribune said it would sell the Cubs after this season. (Photo by John Gress/Reuters)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); MANAGEMENT BUYOUTS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (75%); GOING PRIVATE (75%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (75%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (95%); TRIBUNE CO (CHICAGO IL) (92%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (95%); NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%)

PERSON: SAMUEL ZELL (92%); DENNIS J FITZSIMONS (76%); ELI BROAD (58%); DAVID GEFFEN (56%); RON BURKLE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2007



64 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:
E.P.A. AUTHORITY IS UPHELD -- In a rebuke of Bush administration policy, the Supreme Court has ruled today that the Environmental Protection Agency has the authority to regulate heat-trapping gases in automobile emissions. [Page A1.]THE TRIBUNE COMPANY IS SOLD The Tribune Company, the owner of 23 television stations and newspapers like The Chicago Tribune and The Los Angeles Times, has agreed to a sale to Samuel Zell, the Chicago real estate mogul, for $8.2 billion. [A1.]BUT WHAT ABOUT LOS ANGELES? -- What happens now to The Los Angeles Times, which has been a huge thorn in the side of Tribune? 
 [C1.] ANALYZING THE SALE -- Taking Tribune private will ease quarterly earnings pressures, but operational challenges remain. The Media Equation: David Carr. [C1.]FINANCING THE SALE -- Employee stock ownership plans of the sort being used to buy Tribune have not always worked out as hoped. [C4.] FOR SALE: CHICAGO CUBS -- As part of the Tribune deal, the Chicago Cubs will be sold. One of the potential buyers could be Mark Cuban, owner of the N.B.A.'s Dallas Mavericks. [D1.]GOOGLE TO SELL TV ADS -- Google plans to begin selling television ads on all national satellite channels on EchoStar's Dish Network, bringing its online advertising technology to new markets. Google's chief executive, Eric E. Schmidt, above, said the company thought it could ''add value to this important medium by delivering more relevant ads to viewers.'' [C3.]LENDER FILES FOR BANKRUPTCY -- The New Century Financial Corporation, a prominent player in the subprime mortgage business, filed for Chapter 11 protection in the federal bankruptcy court in Delaware. [C1.]FREMONT GENERAL AUDITOR RESIGNS -- The auditor for Fremont General, another seller of subprime mortgages, has resigned. [C9.]A SWITCH BY EMI -- EMI Group, the British music giant, has decided to sell songs online through Apple's music service without copy protection, a significant shift in how copyrighted music will be sold in the iPod era. [C1.] A GREAT YEAR FOR AIRLINES? -- An airline trade group says industry profit will be $4 billion this year. But some analysts think the industry could top the record of about $5.4 billion in profit, set in 1999. [C3.]BIG TRADE DEAL WITH SOUTH KOREA -- If ratified by Congress, a new trade deal reached between the United States and South Korea would end tariffs on more than 90 percent of the product categories traded between the countries. [C1.]XEROX BUYS A RIVAL -- Xerox will purchase Global Imaging Systems, which sells printers and copiers, for $1.5 billion as it seeks to expand its reach in the small and midsize business markets. The deal is Xerox's third and largest in the last 12 months as it tries to increase growth in equipment revenue. [C11.]VERDICT IS OVERTURNED -- A jury verdict in favor of a whistle-blower who charged that the Kerr-McGee Corporation cheated the government out of millions of dollars in royalties for oil and gas pumped from publicly owned coastal waters has been overturned. [C3.]STARWOOD CHIEF RESIGNS -- Steven J. Heyer has resigned as chief executive of Starwood Hotels and Resorts after he and the board clashed over his management style. [C2.]AEROFLOT BIDS FOR ALITALIA -- Aeroflot, the Russian national airline, has made an unexpected offer for all or part of Italy's national airline, Alitalia. [C8.]STEM CELLS PATENTS IMPERILED -- Three basic patents on stems cells have been revoked in a preliminary decision by United States Patent and Trademark Office, an action that could ease limits on research in the field. [C2.]MANUFACTURING GROWTH DECLINES -- Manufacturing growth slowed more than expected last month and the cost of raw materials rose adding to concern that inflation is not declining as the economy slows. [C11.]BID FOR CELLPHONE COMPANY -- AT&T and a Mexican affiliate have bid more than $6 billion for control of Italy's largest cellphone company. [C11.] EUROPEAN ENERGY DEAL COMPLETED -- The German energy giant E.On has withdrawn its offer for the Spanish utility Endesa in favor of a deal where rival bidders would sell E.On part of Endesa's assets. [C3.]LOSING A PERSONAL DEVICE -- Business travelers tired from being on the road can and do lose their personal electronic devices, which can be a unpleasant experience. Not to mention that once lost, the gadgets are rarely recovered. [C6.]ONLINEBIOMET OFFICIAL RESIGNS -- Another Biomet executive resigns after an inquiry into the backdating of stock options. That report and more are in a special section on executive pay at nytimes.com/business.Business BriefingArticles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.TENET HEALTHCARE, one of the largest United States health care companies, agreed Monday to pay a $10 million civil penalty to settle charges that it failed to disclose that its earnings growth from 1999 to 2002 was driven by its exploitation of a loophole in the Medicare reimbursement system. (DOW JONES/AP)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks share prices of Xerox for the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); RECORD REVENUES (74%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (74%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (72%); BASEBALL (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); MORTGAGE BANKING (69%); SUBPRIME LENDING (69%); PHOTOCOPIERS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (63%); AIRLINES (60%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (53%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (93%); GOOGLE INC (83%); NEW CENTURY FINANCIAL CORP (82%); APPLE INC (81%); DISH NETWORK CORP (67%); EMI GROUP LTD (65%); SIGNATURE GROUP HOLDINGS INC (53%); GLOBAL IMAGING SYSTEMS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (82%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (55%); DALLAS MAVERICKS (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (83%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (81%); DISH (NASDAQ) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (82%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (81%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (81%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (81%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (81%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (67%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (67%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (65%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (65%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%); NAICS811212 COMPUTER & OFFICE MACHINE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE (50%); NAICS423420 OFFICE EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (50%); SIC7629 ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC REPAIR SHOPS, NEC (50%); SIC5044 OFFICE EQUIPMENT (50%)

PERSON: SAMUEL ZELL (72%); MARK CUBAN (56%); ERIC E SCHMIDT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2007



65 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section H; Column 1; DealBook; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: The Money Binge

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
LESS than a decade ago, Stephen A. Schwarzman, the chairman of the Blackstone Group, used to spend his days flying from city to city to drum up money for his private equity funds. ''If I could raise $10 million, that was a good day,'' he recalled recently.
 How times have changed. 
''Now, someone who doesn't know you will just come into our office and say, 'I'd like to give you $200 million,' '' Mr. Schwarzman told a conference in January.
 The shift shows partly how Blackstone has grown in size and reputation. Mr. Schwarzman co-founded the firm in 1985 with $400,000; it now manages more than $78 billion and is planning to go public.
 But the change also reflects the deluge of money that has washed over private equity and hedge funds in recent years. The multitrillion-dollar infusion is remaking the deal economy and corporate America, creating a buyout boom not seen since the 1980s, when Michael R. Milken helped takeover artists finance deal after deal with seemingly unlimited cash.
 But where is this money storm coming from? How long will it last?
 Mr. Schwarzman, whose firm recently closed a $39 billion takeover of Equity Office Properties Trust, said at the conference: ''You look at these numbers, and they are stunning. It's like an out-of-body experience.''
 Mr. Milken, in a rare interview, recently compared the latest buyout wave with the one he helped set off. ''You have substantially more debt than you did 20 years ago,'' he said. He noted, however, that debt is far cheaper and may be less risky this time around because interest rates are so much lower.
 Nine of the 10 largest leveraged buyouts in history have been announced in the last year and a half. These include the proposed $45 billion buyout of the Texas energy giant TXU; the $33 billion acquisition of the hospital operator HCA; and the proposal on Monday of a $29 billion acquisition of the payment processor First Data.
 Much of the capital for these transactions is flowing from institutional investors and pension funds, which have pulled money out of the stock market in search of higher returns. Just as important, though, are the banks that are willing to lend huge sums on friendly terms. These lenders have allowed buyers to leverage their investments with cheap debt to new levels. Hoping to win lucrative business from private equity firms, banks are taking extraordinary steps. Besides loans, some banks are agreeing to provide ''equity bridges'' -- contributions toward the equity portion of a deal -- akin to a mortgage lender covering part of a down payment. The banks' appetite for risk shows little sign of fading, but if it did, the private equity deal machine would lose an important fuel source.
 If there is anyone to thank -- or blame -- for the free-flowing credit, it is Alan Greenspan, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve, who brought interest rates to near-record lows, allowing borrowings to hit record highs. ''Low risk-free, long-term rates worldwide seem to be one factor driving investors to reach for higher returns,'' Mr. Greenspan said in 2005, when he was chairman. ''The search for yield is particularly manifest in the massive inflows of funds to private equity firms and hedge funds.''
 All that low-cost credit has allowed private equity firms to leverage their investments, amplifying their buying power to some $1.5 trillion, according to Morgan Stanley. Blue-chip companies that once seemed out of reach are now relatively easy targets for a take-private transaction. 
 In an odd twist, all the money going to private equity has helped buoy shares of public companies. Nearly every day seems to bring another rumor of a multibillion-dollar buyout opportunity, prompting investors to pile into shares of companies they expect to be acquired. 
 The speculative investing creates another potential obstacle to the private equity juggernaut because it forces buyout firms to pay even more for companies they take private, which could end up crimping their returns.
 The top buyout firms appear to be producing remarkable profits.
 When Blackstone filed for its initial public offering two weeks ago, it disclosed a 30.8 percent annual rate of return on its private equity funds since 1987, far outpacing the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index during the same period. (After Blackstone took its fees, the returns were 22.8 percent, much higher than the S.& P., which was about 11.1 percent.) 
 Some have suggested that the above-market returns enjoyed by Blackstone and other firms are mostly a result of leverage -- which can supercharge returns but only by adding risk -- as opposed to smart investing by fund managers.
 Steven Kaplan, a professor of entrepreneurship and finance at the University of Chicago, has estimated that if similar leverage were applied to investments in the S.& P. 500 index, the returns would exceed those of private equity.
 Whatever the reason for their success, these glittering returns are a major reason investors have reallocated more of their money into the industry. Consider one of the larger pension funds, the Employee Retirement System of Texas, which manages $23 billion of state workers' retirement plans. It has put 7 percent to 8 percent of its funds into private equity investments to help balance its budget. 
 In some cases, there is a whiff of desperation in pension funds' leap into private equity. Many funds have fallen behind on their future obligations to workers, so they are plowing money into higher-risk assets to try to close the gap. More than 51 of 64 state pension plans were underfinanced last year, compared with about 25 in 2000, according to a recent report by Wilshire Associates.
 Less often acknowledged in the recent deal boom is the role of hedge funds, which have also been raising huge sums from institutional investors and rich individuals. In search of higher returns, these funds have been increasingly buying stakes in companies and then pressuring them to sell themselves, so they can pocket the premium when a buyer emerges. 
 The result is more companies on the auction block, ripe for acquisition by private equity investors.
 With so many investors jumping into the private equity game, some are wondering if the buyout business's best days might be over.
 ''It's hard to imagine it can get better than it is,'' Mr. Schwarzman said to the audience at Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania in January. ''We're at maximum advantage in all probability right around now.''

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAKEOVERS (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (71%); OFFICE PROPERTY (71%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (69%); BONDS (64%); INTEREST RATES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); MORTGAGE BANKING (60%); DIVESTITURES (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Special Sections; Hedge Funds ; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Institutional Investors; Pensions and Retirement Plans

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (74%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (74%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (74%)

PERSON: Andrew Ross Sorkin

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007



66 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Jail's Return In Brooklyn Raises Hopes And Fears

BYLINE: By TRYMAINE LEE

 BODY:
When YaYa Ceesay's dream of opening a soul food restaurant came true in 2003, business, at first, boomed. He had found a great spot along an up-and-coming stretch of Atlantic Avenue across the street from the Brooklyn House of Detention and quickly built a strong group of regulars.
 He opened the doors each day at 6 a.m., and from then until after the lunch crowd headed back to work, his restaurant, the Soul Spot, was packed with correction officers, prisoners' families, neighborhood residents and passers-by. Fish and grits, chicken and waffles, scrambled eggs, salmon cakes -- you name it he served it. 
But in June 2003, three months after his glorious introduction to Brooklyn, the jail closed and the breakfast crowd disappeared. Three months after that, Mr. Ceesay was forced to trim the Soul Spot's menu, and he moved back its daily start time to just before noon.
 When the prison population left, he said, about 20 percent of his customers went with it. 
 Now that the city's Department of Correction has said that it wants to reopen the jail and double the inmate population in five years, Mr. Ceesay and many other nearby business owners are saying they will be more than happy to provide food or services to those who will work there or who will visit the people held within.
 ''The jail being there was really good for us,'' Mr. Ceesay said. ''The corrections officers and all the breakfast they ate was a big part of the business. It was good for us.''
 But not everyone is quite so happy that a jail that once held 700 inmates will hold more than 1,400 if plans become reality.
 Some residents in the area said that what is good for the mom-and-pop businesses might not be so good for the moms and pops whose new condominiums, many worth several hundred thousand dollars, would be just down the street from the repopulated jail.
 ''Go ask the parents of the schoolkids who go to Packer who will have to walk past the jail on their way to the store for a bag of potato chips,'' said Corey Baylor, an investment banker who moved into a State Street condo four days ago, referring to the Packer Collegiate Institute on Joralemon Street. When the jail closed, the area surrounding the corner of Atlantic Avenue and Boerum Place, where it sits, was trying to reinvent itself. It was an unremarkable neighborhood of gas stations and hunched old office buildings. Today it is home to some of the newest high-end apartment buildings in Brooklyn. There's a sparkling new YMCA a block away from the old jail, a high-rise is being built next door and rows of condos line State Street a block away.
 Mr. Baylor said the resurrection of the jail could hurt growth in the neighborhood. He suggested that the city lease or sell the building to a company that would be able to bring in the kind of money the community needs to nurture more residents.
 Correction Department officials said they want to encourage the economic gains on Atlantic Avenue, which is why they are seeking to include commercial space in the expanded jail.
 Those plans do not alleviate Mr. Baylor's concerns. ''If the jail never comes online, we'll all be very excited,'' he said. ''If it does come online, we'll be extremely disappointed. What about all of those people who bought condos here and were told that the jail would never reopen?''
 Onur Aktulgali, manager of a gift store near the jail, said the Correction Department plan is ''not good for Brooklyn.''
 ''Brooklyn is developing,'' he said. ''Nice places for shops, nice places for people to sit at coffee shops or cafes. The last thing we need is a jail next door.''
 Ludner Jacques, who lives in the area and works at the Brooklyn Criminal Court building, said he has heard the buzz about the jail-reopening plan but does not understand what the fuss is about.
 ''It's going to be interesting,'' he said. ''It makes me laugh, actually. You know, when you are paying this kind of money for a place, you don't want to live next to prisoners. But if we can live here, and people live in this area, why not inmates too?''
 From behind the counter at the St. Clair Restaurant at Atlantic Avenue and Smith Street, opposite the jail, the owner, Costas Costa, watched the comings and goings yesterday. Since 1968, when he bought the 100-year-old building where he operates the restaurant, Mr. Costa has served diner food to anyone who wants it.
 ''For business, it's a good thing,'' he said, wiping down the counter with a stained rag that was once white. ''The area doesn't like it. But we made good money with them there.'' 
 Back at the Soul Spot, a few doors down from the St. Clair, Mr. Ceesay cut a few pieces of his prized meatloaf. Then he lifted his head and took a step back, chuckling.
 ''The neighbors act like the prisoners are going to be out in the streets causing trouble,'' he said. ''But they'll be kept inside, in check. And we look forward to having them back.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Brooklyn House of Detention, which the Department of Correction wants to reopen and expand, dominates a stretch of Atlantic Avenue. (Photo by Krisanne Johnson for The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (91%); RESTAURANTS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (87%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (75%); FAMILY (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); TRENDS (72%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (72%); GAS STATIONS (67%); CITY GOVERNMENT (67%); OFFICE PROPERTY (60%); RETAILERS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Prisons and Prisoners; Brooklyn House of Detention; Retail Stores and Trade; Economic Conditions and Trends; Housing; Education and Schools

PERSON: Trymaine Lee

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007



67 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Nearing a Plea in the Case Of the Fake Veterinarian

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BRICK

 BODY:
In his day, Detective Fred the Cat was lionized from Grand Rapids, Mich., to Japan. There was a law enforcement award; there was an appearance on Broadway. The Sunday Mercury of Birmingham, England, described his exploits under the headline ''Crazy World.'' 
 Now the legacy of his law enforcement career, such as it was, draws near a close. Fred's most famous collar appeared in Brooklyn Supreme Court yesterday for a psychiatric evaluation that could lead to a plea bargain.
The defendant, Steven Vassall, 29, has been charged with the unlicensed practice of veterinary medicine and the torture of animals. His hearing was a procedural step toward admission to Brooklyn Mental Health Court, a 5-year-old experiment in jurisprudence for defendants who demonstrate a ''serious and persistent mental illness.''
 A lawyer for Mr. Vassall, Royce Russell, said a trial was unlikely.
 ''He's being evaluated for a jail alternative,'' Mr. Russell said in an interview. ''The jury's still out on whether he'll be eligible.''
 The saga of Mr. Vassall's apprehension bears some recounting:
 In the summer of 2005, prosecutors say, Mr. Vassall, an unemployed lab technician who presented himself as a veterinarian, performed surgery on a Boston terrier named Burt, who had been in his regular care for about four years. Burt was left bleeding from an open wound; Burt's master called the district attorney's office.
 A sting was arranged, but a sting needs a drag. Fred Wheezy was the adopted pet of a deputy district attorney, Carol Moran, who had nursed him to such robust health as to require neutering. In February 2006, a surveillance camera captured Mr. Vassall picking up Fred and a $135 cash payment. He was arrested without attempting the job.
 About a year ago, Fred darted into traffic and was killed instantly, bringing sorrow to his admirers and more to his caretakers, a family devoted to the nurture of sick animals.
 The case against Mr. Vassall continued with complaints from several pet owners, including a woman named Rosaline Arthur. In September, Justice John P. Walsh reviewed the grand jury testimony and dismissed all charges of aggravated cruelty to animals, writing that prosecutors had failed to show evidence of serious physical injury.
 ''The only evidence the people provided in support of 'serious physical injury' was Ms. Arthur's testimony that, when the defendant returned her cat, she noticed a scar on his hind leg which did not 'look professionally done,' '' the judge wrote. Quoting Ms. Arthur, he continued: ''It looked like loops, then thread looped around the scarring and then there was like a hole toward the end where this was, it was just an open little space, a hole in there.''
 The charges of practicing veterinary medicine without a license remain.
 Court records show that Mr. Vassall has met with private psychiatrists, expressing remorse and describing a misguided intention to help others. His lawyer has submitted testimonials from supporters and satisfied pet owners. And the case has progressed toward Mental Health Court.
 ''That speaks to what may be the ultimate resolution,'' said his lawyer, Mr. Russell.
 If so, an outreach group in Harlem has offered to employ Mr. Vassall with community service to AIDS patients, providing a volunteer outlet for the untrained urge to heal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ANIMAL WELFARE (86%); ANIMAL ABUSE & NEGLECT (78%); CATS (78%); PETS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); LAWYERS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); JURY TRIALS (76%); MENTAL HEALTH (76%); WITNESSES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); GRAND JURY (75%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (75%); MENTAL ILLNESS (74%); ARRESTS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); LICENSES & PERMITS (70%); DOGS (70%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (67%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (55%) Veterinary Medicine; Mental Health and Disorders; Frauds and Swindling; Impersonations; Cruelty to Animals

PERSON: Steven Vassall; Michael Brick

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (91%); BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (73%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007



68 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Square Feet; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: Condo Conversions Switch Gears to Go Commercial

BYLINE: By LISA CHAMBERLAIN

 BODY:
The strength of Manhattan's commercial property market is causing developers to rethink plans to convert aging office buildings into residential condominiums, and some are deciding to sell buildings outright to developers that specialize in commercial projects.
 The International Toy Center, a well-known building on Madison Square Park, is the latest example of a reverse in the residential conversion trend. In a deal announced Monday, the building is being sold for about $500 million to the L&L Holding Company, which will reposition it as Class A office space.
 The site, used by designers and manufacturers in the toy industry, was purchased more than two years ago for $350 million by the Chetrit Group, a development company. But Chetrit had trouble getting all of the tenants out and had to deal with several lawsuits. Now, it has decided against converting the 800,000-square-foot building into condos. 
 The seemingly insatiable appetite for luxury condos over the last few years enticed developers to buy old Class B office buildings and spend hundreds of millions of dollars on conversions. Others have been building new condo towers in areas of Manhattan that had long been considered inhospitable to high-end residential uses. But with the commercial market tightening and construction costs rising, a handful of developers have changed course in the last six months. 
 ''It's the perfect situation for us,'' said Robert T. Lapidus, president and chief investment officer of L&L, a privately owned real estate investment firm that specializes in commercial property. ''Big blocks of office space are rare in Manhattan, so we looked at this solely as an office property.'' When asked about tenants still in the building, Mr. Lapidus said that the seller was obligated to deliver the property vacant. 
 He added that the deal is expected to close this month and that asking rents will be in the middle $70s to low $80s a square foot. 
 The Toy Center will undergo major renovations, Mr. Lapidus said. The planned upgrades to the 1912 building include turning the interior courtyard into a series of hanging gardens, and possibly installing a sky lobby on the top floor, with elevators that would take tenants to a roof garden. 
 Chetrit also owns an adjacent building, 1107 Broadway, which is connected by a sky bridge but was not part of the sale. Mr. Lapidus said he believed that 1107 Broadway would be sold as well, although L&L was not interested, believing it was not well suited to offices. Mr. Lapidus speculated that it would better serve as hotel property. 
 David Levine, vice president of Chetrit, said that the company had sold the Toy Center to L&L because it was a ''unique opportunity,'' but that his company was going forward with residential plans at 1107 Broadway ''for now.''
 Another large block of space that had been earmarked for conversion to condos but will remain commercial is at 636 11th Avenue. Cushman & Wakefield, the commercial real estate company, recently began marketing the 530,000-square-foot building, owned by the Hakimian Organization, as office space for about $50 a square foot.
 Formerly the headquarters of Global Crossing, a high-speed communications company that went bankrupt, the building has been empty for two years. Hakimian announced in the fall of 2005 that it would create 450 apartments, but decided against a residential conversion about six months ago. 
 The 11-story building overlooks the Hudson River and the home of the Intrepid aircraft carrier and museum; the carrier is docked in Bayonne, N.J., for repairs. The building occupies the entire block on 11th Avenue from 46th to 47th Streets. The large floor spaces, covering as much as 72,000 square feet on a single floor, would have made for a complicated condo conversion, but they are attractive to office tenants. The lobby will undergo a major renovation, and 70,000 square feet will be developed for retail tenants.
 That is not to say that Hakimian has given up entirely on residential conversions, however. In a joint venture with Peykar Brothers Realty, Hakimian bought 75 Wall Street for $185 million in December 2005. The former headquarters for JPMorgan Chase, the property is a 36-story, 660,000-square-foot building that will become a hotel with 250 rooms and 350 condos on floors 20 to 36. 
 ''Structurally these buildings are very different,'' Rex Hakimian said. ''Eleventh Avenue is shorter and wider; 75 Wall is taller and thinner. It was a tough decision on 11th, but the commercial market is so strong, the numbers made more sense to go commercial. But 75 Wall is an exceptional building. The smaller floor plate and high ceilings -- it's as if it was built to be converted.''
 Macklowe Properties also recently decided against converting 510 Madison Avenue at 53rd Street into condos. The site had been entirely demolished and a condo tower was going to be built. Instead, it will become a 30-story, 350,000-square-foot office building. It is expected to be ready for tenants by the third quarter of 2008. 
 A parcel of land owned by Robert Gladstone of Madison Equities on Eighth Avenue from 54th to 55th Streets had been slated to become a mixed-use residential development. Instead, Mr. Gladstone partnered with Boston Properties and acquired an adjacent property and some air rights, and all of it will become an 850,000-square-foot office building with retail businesses on a 50,000-square-foot parcel of land. 
 Because of the high costs of building luxury condominiums, a developer needs to sell the apartments for high prices, said Brian Ezratty, vice president of Eastern Consolidated, who helped broker the deal. But Eighth Avenue may not attract wealthy buyers, he said.
 The area has recently experienced a sharp rise in office rents, however, and putting up an office building carries much less risk for the developer, Mr. Ezratty said. 
 Diesel USA, the Italian clothing company, bought a 100,000-square-foot building at 220-230 West 19th Street last fall; the site had been undergoing a condo conversion by its owner, Robert Gans. But he received an attractive offer from Diesel, which paid $53 million to turn the 12-story building into its headquarters and showroom. 
 ''It was easier this way,'' said Marcia Rose Yawitz, another broker with Eastern Consolidated. ''He owned the property for a long time, and it needed to be totally renovated. This was a fast and easy deal.'' 
 Newmark Knight Frank has also decided against turning the top floors of 40 Worth Street, from Church to West Broadway, into condos. The 700,000-square-foot property will be renovated for offices when city agencies move out this spring. Newmark Knight Frank's construction division, founded 10 years ago, has converted 26 commercial properties totaling more than seven million square feet, creating approximately 5,400 residential units, mostly in Lower Manhattan. 
 The commercial market ''has a shortage of large blocks of space, and this is a large block of space,'' said Barry M. Gosin, chief executive of Newmark. ''Part of the problem with condos is, you sell it and pay taxes and you don't have the building any more. If the economics are close, we'd rather own the building.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: A condo conversion was canceled at the Toy Center building, top. The building at 636 11th Avenue, above, will be marketed as office space. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York Times ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (94%); REAL ESTATE (92%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (92%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (91%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); TOYS & GAMES (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (70%); EXECUTIVES (64%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (56%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%) Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Condominiums; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties

ORGANIZATION: International Toy Center (NYC); L&L Holding Co; Chetrit Group

PERSON: Lisa Chamberlain

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007



69 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Seeking a Fix, by Russian Satellite; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1864 words

HEADLINE: A Challenge to America's Global Positioning System

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: MOSCOW, April 3 

 BODY:
The days of their cold war may have passed, but Russia and the United States are in the midst of another battle -- this one a technological fight over the United States monopoly on satellite navigation.
 By the end of the year, the authorities here say, the Russian space agency plans to launch eight navigation satellites that would nearly complete the country's own system, called Glonass, for Global Navigation Satellite System.
The system is expected to begin operating over Russian territory and parts of adjacent Europe and Asia, and then go global in 2009 to compete with the Global Positioning System of the United States. 
 Nor is Russia the only country trying to break the American monopoly on navigation technology. China has already sent up satellites to create its own system, called Baidu after the Chinese word for the Big Dipper. And the European Union has also begun developing a rival system, Galileo, although work has been halted because of doubts among the private contractors over its potential for profits. Russia's system is furthest along, paid for with government oil revenue. 
 What is driving the technological battle is, in part, the potential for many more uses for satellite navigation than the one most people know it for -- giving driving instructions to travelers. Businesses as disparate as agriculture and banking are integrating it into their operations. Satellite navigation may provide the platform for services like site-specific advertising, with directions that appear on cellphone screens when a user is walking, for example, near a Starbucks coffee shop or a McDonald's restaurant. 
 Sales of G.P.S. devices are already booming. The global market for the devices hit $15 billion in 2006, according to the GPS Industry Council, a Washington trade group, and is expanding at a rate of 25 to 30 percent annually.
 But what is also behind the battle for control of navigation technology is a fear that the United States could use its monopoly -- the system was developed and is controlled by the military, after all -- to switch off signals in a time of crisis. 
 ''In a few years, business without a navigation signal will become inconceivable,'' said Andrei G. Ionin, an aerospace analyst with the Center for the Analysis of Strategies and Technologies, which is linked to the Russian defense ministry. ''Everything that moves will use a navigation signal -- airplanes, trains, yachts, people, rockets, valuable animals and favorite pets.''
 When that happens, countries that choose to rely only on G.P.S., he said, will be falling into ''a geopolitical trap'' of American dominance of an important Internet-age infrastructure. The United States could theoretically deny navigation signals to countries like Iran and North Korea, not just in time of war, but as a high-tech form of economic sanction that could disrupt power grids, banking systems and other industries, he said. The United States government's stated policy is to provide uninterrupted signals globally.
 G.P.S. devices, in fact, are at the center of the dispute over the Iranian seizure of 15 British sailors and marines. The British maintain that the devices on their boats showed they were in Iraqi waters; the Iranians have countered with map coordinates that it said showed they had been in Iranian waters.
 Russia's project, of course, carries wide implications for armies around the world by providing a navigation system not controlled by the Pentagon, complementing Moscow's increasingly assertive foreign policy stance. 
 The United States formally opened G.P.S. to civilian users in 1993 by promising to provide it continually, at no cost, around the world. 
 The Russian system is also calculated to send ripples through the fast-expanding industry for consumer navigation devices by promising a slight technical advantage over G.P.S. alone, analysts and industry executives say. Devices receiving signals from both systems would presumably be more reliable. 
 President Vladimir V. Putin, who speaks often about Glonass and its possibilities, has prodded his scientists to make the product consumer friendly. 
 ''The network must be impeccable, better than G.P.S., and cheaper if we want clients to choose Glonass,'' Mr. Putin said last month at a Russian government meeting on the system, according to the Interfax news agency. 
 ''You know how much I care about Glonass,'' Mr. Putin told his ministers.
 G.P.S. has its roots in the American military in the 1960s. In 1983, before the system was fully functional, President Ronald Reagan suggested making it available to civilian users around the world after a Korean Air flight strayed into Soviet airspace and was shot down. 
 G.P.S. got its first military test in the Persian Gulf war in 1991, and was seen as a big reason for the success of the precision bombing campaign, which helped spur its adoption in commercial applications in the 1990s. 
 The Russian system, like America's G.P.S., has roots in the cold war technology to guide strategic bombers and missiles. It was briefly operational in the mid-1990s, but fell into disrepair. The Russian satellites send signals that are usable now but work only intermittently.
 To operate globally, a system needs a minimum of 24 satellites, the number in the G.P.S. constellation, not counting spares in orbit.
 A receiver must be in line of sight of no fewer than three satellites at any time to triangulate an accurate position. A fourth satellite is needed to calculate altitude. As other countries introduce competing systems, devices capable of receiving foreign signals along with G.P.S. will more often be in line of sight of three or more satellites. 
 Within the United States, Western Europe and Japan, ground-based transmissions hone the accuracy of signals to within a few feet of a location -- better than what could be achieved with satellite signals alone. The Russian and eventual European or Chinese systems, therefore, would make receivers more reliable in preventing signal loss when there are obstructions, like steep canyons, tall buildings or even trees. 
 Still, a Glonass-capable G.P.S. receiver in the United States, Western Europe or Japan would not be more accurate than a G.P.S. system alone, because of the ground-based correction signals. In other parts of the world, a Glonass-capable G.P.S. receiver would be more reliable and slightly more accurate.
 American manufacturers that are dominant in the industry could be confronted with pressure to offer these advantages to customers by making devices compatible with the Russian system, inevitably undermining the American monopoly on navigation signals used in commerce. 
 In this sense, the Russians are setting off the first salvo in a battle for an infrastructure in the skies. Russia sees a great deal at stake in influencing the standards that will be used in civilian consumer devices. 
 The market for satellite navigators is growing rapidly. Garmin, the largest American manufacturer, more than doubled sales of automobile navigators in 2006, for example, and in February it showed a Super Bowl ad that was seen as a coming of age for G.P.S. navigators as a mass market product. 
 Jeremy D. Ludwig was one consumer who said he would be willing to pay a slight premium for a device equipped with a chip capable of processing Russian navigation signals.
 He recounted a recent trip on Interstate 25 in Colorado, when, he said, he was dismayed to discover the G.P.S. device on his BlackBerry had inexplicably lost its signal, just as he was trying to decide which exit to take into Denver. 
 ''If you don't know which exit to take, you're already lost,'' Mr. Ludwig, an art student, said in a recent telephone interview from Colorado Springs. 
 That kind of attitude is what Russia is banking on even as it also takes a stab at making consumer receivers -- so far without much success. But the Russian goal of diversifying navigation signals used in commerce will be achieved, Mr. Ionin said, even if foreign manufacturers simply adopt the Russian standard, and even if Russia's own attempt to make consumer devices fails.
 To encourage wide acceptance, Mr. Putin has been pitching the system during foreign visits, asking for collaboration and financial support. 
 Now, only makers of high-end surveying and professional navigation receivers have adopted dual-system capability. 
 Topcon Positioning Systems of Livermore, Calif., for example, offers a Glonass and G.P.S. receiver for surveyors and heavy-equipment operators. Javad Navigation Systems is built around making dual-system receivers, with offices in San Jose and Moscow. 
 Javad Ashjaee, the president of Javad, said in an interview that wide adoption was inevitable because more satellites provided an inherently better service. ''If you have G.P.S., you have 90 percent of what you need,'' he said. Russia's system will succeed, he said, ''for that extra 10 percent.'' 
 Adding Glonass to low-end consumer devices would require a new chip, with associated design costs, but probably not much in the way of additional manufacturing expenses, he said. 
 Already this year, in a sign of growing acceptance of Glonass, another high-end manufacturer, Trimble, based in Sunnyvale, Calif., introduced a Russian-compatible device for agricultural navigators, used for applying pesticides, for example. 
 Whether consumer goods manufacturers will follow is an open question, John R. Bucher, a wireless equipment analyst at BMO Capital Markets, said in a telephone interview.
 Garmin, which has more than 50 percent of the American market, has not yet taken a position on Glonass. ''We are waiting,'' Jessica Myers, a spokeswoman for Garmin, said in a telephone interview. 
 For most consumers, she said, devices are reliable enough already. Growth in the industry is driven instead by better digital mapping and software, making what already exists more useful. Garmin's latest car navigator, for example, alerts drivers to traffic jams on the road ahead and the price of gas at nearby stations. 
 At home at least, the Kremlin is guaranteeing a market by requiring ships, airplanes and trucks carrying hazardous materials to operate with Glonass receivers, while providing grants to half a dozen Russian manufacturers of navigators. 
 Technically precise they may be, but even by Russian standards, some of the Russian-made products coming to market now are noticeably lacking in convenience features. 
 At the Russian Institute of Radionavigation and Time in St. Petersburg, for example, scientists have developed the M-103 dual system receiver. The precision device theoretically operates more reliably than a G.P.S. unit under tough conditions, like the urban canyons of Manhattan. 
 With its boxy appearance, the M-103 resembles a Korean War-era military walkie-talkie. It weighs about one pound and sells for $1,000, display screen not included. To operate, a user must unfurl a cable linking the set to an external antenna mounted on a spiked stick, intended to be jabbed into a field. 
 ''Unfortunately, we haven't developed a hand-held version yet,'' said Vadim S. Zholnerov, a deputy director of the institute.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A worker at the Russian Institute of Radionavigation and Time in St. Petersburg, where devices like chips and receivers, below, are made. (Photographs by James Hill for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (93%); NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (92%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (91%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (90%); COLD WAR (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); SPACE INDUSTRY (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%); RESTAURANTS (64%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (61%); PETS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (54%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%) UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); EUROPE (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007



70 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Recalling a Time When a Street Divided Two Worlds

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
The Invisible WallBy Harry Bernstein297 pages. Ballantine Books. $22.95.
 Harry Bernstein grew up in a small world. In the Lancashire mill town of his childhood, during the teens and twenties of the last century, the poor Jews clustered along a single dead-end street, and even that was only half theirs. Christians lived on one side, Jews on the other, separated by a few feet that might as well have been hundreds of miles. ''The Invisible Wall,'' Mr. Bernstein's heart-wrenching memoir, describes two cultures cohabiting uneasily, prey to misunderstandings that distort lives on both sides. It is a world of pain and prejudice, evoked in spare, restrained prose that brilliantly illuminates a time, a place and a family struggling valiantly to beat impossible odds.
Mr. Bernstein's parents, like many of their neighbors from Russia and Poland, fled persecution in the Pale of Settlement and found a refuge in England. There anti-Semitism took a more modified form, usually expressed in cold contempt or muttered comments. The kind of Christian who taunted or beat Jewish children on their way to school was called a bates or, in the plural, batesemas. But the local Christians were not these. ''For the most part, our Christians were a quiet, decent lot, and the two sides got along quite well,'' Mr. Bernstein writes. 
 The Christians owned the few shops on the street or worked in the textile mills. The Jews, like Mr. Bernstein's father, eked out a living in tailoring shops. No one had much money, but Mr. Bernstein's father, an angry, embittered man, drank most of his paycheck away, leaving his wife to beg for the leavings, which were never enough to support two girls and three boys. Young Harry slept at the foot of the bed occupied by his two brothers, dodging kicks all through the night. His illiterate mother dictated letters to relatives in Chicago, begging them to send steamship tickets so the family could emigrate to the United States. 
 In this, his first book, the 96-year-old Mr. Bernstein tells his story, so remote in time, almost as though it were a fable, occasionally addressing the reader directly. (''I have told you before,'' he begins one sentence, characteristically.) The setting, beautifully rendered, recalls early D. H. Lawrence, with mill hands trudging off to work early in the morning, their iron-shod clogs raising sparks on the cobblestones. In Mr. Bernstein's hands, the small events of family life and the daily dramas on the street take on a shimmering, timeless quality. 
 Mr. Bernstein's trip to the past is warm without being sentimental. The pleasures of childhood are undercut by slights, threats and grinding poverty, and even the rosiest scenes turn dark at the edges, like the game his mother made of the family wash. Standing at the bottom of the stairs, she would count to three, whereupon all five children would throw their dirty clothes from the top of the stairs and she would try to catch them. 
 ''Some she managed to catch with her open arms, others rained down on her head, hit her in the face, or scattered on the floor around her feet,'' he writes. ''After gathering them, she sewed and mended and washed under the gaslight until late in the night.'' 
 The most memorable scenes are simply awful. Lily, Mr. Bernstein's older sister, wins a scholarship to the local grammar school, finishing at the top of a highly competitive examination. When the first day of school arrives, her father drags her to the tailor's shop by her hair and puts her to work. One of Mr. Bernstein's brothers, keen to become a journalist, is summoned to Manchester by an editor who tells him to stop wasting his time looking for a job, since no newspaper in the country will hire a Jew. ''Stick to where you belong, in the tailoring shops and pawnshops and the markets,'' he tells him. ''Remember that and you'll be all right.'' 
 A Romeo and Juliet drama gradually unfolds on Mr. Bernstein's divided street. Lily falls in love with Arthur Forshaw, the son of a local shopkeeper, provoking a cultural crisis. One Jewish girl on the street has already been shipped off to Australia by her family after being caught kissing a Christian, but this is worse. Mr. Bernstein's mother, who allows only a Shabbos goy to enter her house to light the fire on Friday nights, regards marriage to a Christian as death. In a hastily dictated letter to America, she begs for a steamship ticket for Lily. 
 ''I do not want to sit shivah for my daughter,'' she pleads. ''I do not want her to die.'' 
 Mr. Bernstein treats his material novelistically. He recalls in detail circumstances and conversations no 5-year-old could possibly remember, and he turns up, with uncanny frequency, close enough to witness or eavesdrop on important events. As a purely documentary record, ''The Invisible Wall'' strains credulity, but as an emotional experience and a vivid retelling of the author's past, it exerts uncommon power. 
 Mr. Bernstein, with great economy and skill, maneuvers an extensive cast of characters onto his small stage and lets their stories play out within the larger historical and social context. In the end, that little street turns out to be very big indeed.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Mel Evans/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); FAMILY (88%); CHILDREN (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); COHABITATION (75%); FABRIC MILLS (73%); TEXTILE MFG (73%); TEXTILE MILLS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: William Grimes; Harry Bernstein

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007



71 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: Atlanta-Based Lender Closes After Fund Sources Dry Up

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
A mortgage lender, SouthStar Funding, has closed its doors, the latest casualty in the battered subprime lending market, a company executive said yesterday.
 The privately owned SouthStar, based in Atlanta, which offered subprime and other mortgage products, closed out all accounts on Monday after its investment partners cut off financing because of payment defaults. SouthStar told its customers in an e-mail message that it would cancel any pending closings. 
''We really felt like we could weather the storm and that we would outlive some of the competition,'' said Tyler Wood, SouthStar executive vice president and director of governmental affairs. He is also president of the Mortgage Bankers Association of Georgia.
 ''Wall Street's appetite for the Alt-A and subprime market disappeared.''
 The subprime market caters to customers with poor credit, while Alt-A is a category between prime and subprime. The subprime market has suffered from payment defaults, and the credit troubles have crept into the Alt-A market.
 The M& T Bank Corporation, a regional banker based in Buffalo that also does business in the Alt-A market, said in a regulatory filing Friday that it was having trouble selling some of its loans. 
 More than two dozen subprime lenders have closed in recent months, and others are struggling to remain in business. Most of those closing have been relatively small lenders, like SouthStar.
 ''You're starting to see the smaller shops with limited diversified funding sources go first,'' said Matthew Howlett, an analyst with Fox-Pitt, Kelton. ''They don't have the power to withstand these Category 5 hurricane forces.''
 New Century Financial, once one of the nation's largest providers of home loans to high-risk borrowers, filed for bankruptcy protection on Monday.
 SouthStar generated close to $7 billion in mortgage loans and employed as many as 800 people a year ago, Mr. Wood said.
 It laid off about 200 workers at the end of last summer before hiring some back in the fall, when it thought it had turned a corner. Its president, Kirk Smith, said in an e-mail message to workers that two of the main purchasers of its loans recently refused to finance pools of money committed to the company, unless it reimbursed them upfront for all existing repurchase obligations.
 Another purchaser bought only a part of the loans it had previously committed itself to buying.
 After efforts to sell the company to two potential buyers fell through on Friday and Sunday, Mr. Smith said the company had no choice but to close.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBPRIME LENDING (93%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (91%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); HURRICANES (50%) Housing; Mortgages; Shutdowns (Institutional); Interest Rates

COMPANY: NEW CENTURY FINANCIAL CORP (90%); M&T BANK CORP (69%); FOX-PITT KELTON INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SouthStar Funding

TICKER: MTB (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (90%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%) GEORGIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007



72 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIX; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: 3,400 Layoffs Send a Message To Millions

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
Over the years, American companies have built a pretty extensive social safety net for their workers. The clearest examples of it are pensions and health insurance, which became popular during the wage freeze of World War II, when employers were looking for creative ways to give raises. Today, the United States is the only major country in the world where the private sector plays such a big role in caring for the old and the sick.
 But the corporate version of the welfare state is not just about retirement and health care. Another, much less obvious, piece of it is the steadily increasing pay that most workers receive over the course of their careers. All else equal, a typical worker in his early 60s makes about 50 percent more than a worker in his early 30s.
 This arrangement produces some enormous benefits for society. It allows Americans to enjoy ever-rising living standards over their lives and helps them pay some big expenses, like their children's college tuition and their parents' elder care, that start to hit in middle age. 
 In strictly economic terms, however, paying people based on their age is a bit skewed. Sixty-year-olds are indeed more productive than 30-year-olds, studies have shown, but not 50 percent more productive. Experience isn't quite as valuable as we might like to believe. In effect, most companies are underpaying their younger workers and overpaying their older ones. 
 This somewhat uncomfortable fact was a big part of the extraordinary layoff announcement from Circuit City Stores last week. On Wednesday, the company dismissed 3,400 people, or about 8 percent of its work force, not because they were doing a bad job and not because the company was eliminating their positions. Instead, executives said the workers were being paid too much and that the company would replace them with new employees who would earn less. It was the second such layoff at Circuit City in the last five years, and it offered an unusually clear window on the ruthlessness of corporate efficiency. 
 Whatever you think of the urge behind that efficiency -- whether you see it as the wellspring of American competitiveness or the source of middle-class insecurity -- there's no question that it is a cause of the dismantling of the private-sector safety net that has served the country well over the last half century. What, then, is going to replace that safety net?
 The laid-off Circuit City employees worked in the company's stores and warehouses, selling electronics, unloading boxes and the like. They generally earned $10 to $20 an hour, making them typical of the broad middle of the American work force. Nationwide, the median hourly wage of all workers is about $15.
 ''We just bought our first house about two or three months ago, and I'm afraid I'm going to lose it,'' Alan Hartley, a car-stereo installer in the Charlotte, N.C., area told the local NBC affiliate after he'd been let go. ''I'm not sure what I'm going to do. I'm hurt mainly because I love this company. I planned on retiring from it. I feel I've taken very good care of them, and I can't believe they did this.''
 Like a lot of companies, Circuit City sets ''pay ranges'' for its various jobs. Once associates reach the top of the range, they are not supposed to get further raises -- beyond the basic cost-of-living increases that also push up the pay range -- unless they are promoted.
 But Circuit City's store managers found it hard to stick to the policy. When they were divvying up the yearly pool of raise money, they would often increase the pay of all workers who had done a good job, even those at the range's ceiling, said Bill Cimino, Circuit City's chief spokesman. It just seemed like the decent thing to do.
 ''It's hard to say no,'' Mr. Cimino told me. ''It's only 3 or 4 percent.'' 
 Eventually, though, the company's executives decided they couldn't afford decency for decency's sake. In recent months, there has been a price war over flat-panel televisions that's an excellent case study of the benefits and drawbacks of globalization. The price cuts have made the televisions, which are manufactured in Asia and Mexico, affordable to many more families, but have also squeezed Circuit City's margins. 
 At the same time, the company has to reckon with cut-throat competition from Wal-Mart and Best Buy. Wal-Mart, in fact, has also been taking steps that seem aimed at pushing out more experienced workers, like setting wage caps for certain jobs and requiring people to work nights and weekends. In 2005, a top executive wrote Wal-Mart's board a memo, which McKinsey & Company helped put together, noting that ''the cost of an associate with 7 years of tenure is almost 55 percent more than the cost of an associate with 1 year of tenure, yet there is no difference in his or her productivity.''
 There is a real question about whether these chains will hurt themselves in the long run by damaging employee morale, customer service and, ultimately, productivity. (Circuit City is forcing fired workers to wait 10 weeks to reapply for their jobs, I assume because the company executives were afraid that workers whose pay had been cut wouldn't make effective sales associates.)
 But there's no question that corporate America is moving in the same direction as Circuit City. Companies are wringing out what they see as inefficiencies, like traditional pensions and health insurance coverage, and tying workers' pay more closely to their performance.
 It's probably not possible to halt these changes. It may not even be desirable. The flexibility of the American labor force seems to be one reason that recessions have become less frequent and unemployment is less of a problem here than in Europe, notes Jason Furman, a leading Democratic economist. In this country, fast-growing companies can hire new workers without worrying that they are making a 30-year commitment.
 But it would also be foolish to pretend nothing is changing. The corporate safety net of the 20th century is going away, and a fundamentally different private sector will require a fundamentally different public sector. 
 If companies aren't going to provide health insurance, the government will need to. It can do so directly, through a single-payer system similar to those in other countries, or indirectly, by pooling together the uninsured and helping them buy coverage, as Massachusetts is now planning. If companies aren't going to provide pensions, the government will have to provide better incentives to save, helping people overcome their natural instinct to choose a flat-panel TV today over an adequate retirement tomorrow. And if companies aren't automatically going to give workers raises over the course of their lives, the country will probably need a new strategy for giving older workers new skills, something considerably more ambitious than the current, meager retraining programs.
 This is the real message of the Circuit City layoff, and it's likely to be the great economic debate of the coming decade.

GRAPHIC: Photo: By deciding to lay off longtime workers, Circuit City has gone against the tradition that job experience pays off in better wages and benefits. (Photo by Elaine Thompson/Associated Press)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); TUITION FEES (74%); WORLD WAR II (72%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (72%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CIRCUIT CITY STORES INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (54%); SIC5731 RADIO, TV & CONSUMER ELECTRONICS STORES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007



73 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1489 words

HEADLINE: India's Edge Goes Beyond Outsourcing

BYLINE: By ANAND GIRIDHARADAS

 BODY:
Outsourcing is breaking out of the back office.
 For years, most service industry jobs that were moved to countries like India were considered relatively low-skill tasks like answering customer inquiries. But that has been changing in recent years, and increasingly the jobs of Western white-collar elites in fields as diverse as investment banking, aircraft engineering and pharmaceutical research have begun flowing to India and a few other developing countries.
In the view of most specialists on the phenomenon, the kinds of jobs that cannot be outsourced are slowly evaporating. 
 Boeing and Airbus now employ hundreds of Indians in challenging tasks like writing software for next-generation cockpits and building systems to prevent airborne collisions. Investment banks like Morgan Stanley are hiring Indians to analyze American stocks, jobs that commonly pay six-figure salaries on Wall Street. 
 The drug maker Eli Lilly recently handed over a molecule it discovered to an Indian company, which will be paid $500,000 to $1.5 million a year per scientist to ready the drug for commercial use -- work that would be significantly more costly if carried out by Americans.
 With multinationals employing tens of thousands of Indians, some are beginning to treat the country like a second headquarters, sending senior executives with global responsibilities to work there. For example, Cisco Systems, the leading maker of communications equipment, has decided that 20 percent of its top talent should be in India within five years; it recently moved one of its highest-ranking executives, Wim Elfrink, to Bangalore, the center of the Indian industry, as chief globalization officer.
 Accenture, the global consulting giant, has its worldwide head of business-process outsourcing in Bangalore; by December it expects to have more employees in India than in the United States.
 This is not a zero-sum game, in which every job added in India comes at the expense of an American or European one. 
 In many ways, the shift reflects a changing view at multinational companies as they find it easier to meet growing demand by taking advantage of the improved skills of newly educated people in the developing world. And some companies are returning certain jobs to the United States, finding that the work in India and elsewhere is not up to snuff. 
 But there are trade-offs as well. As Indian back offices become more sophisticated, Western companies are finding that large parts of their work, even high-end tasks, can also be done from India. From the consumer perspective, India has emerged as a pool of 1.1 billion potential customers for companies seeking faster growth. And so many companies are shifting their energy to where they see their futures being written.
 ''India is at the epicenter of the flat world,'' said Michael J. Cannon-Brookes, vice president for business development in India and China at I.B.M., which has reduced its American work force by 31,000 since 1992 even as its Indian staff mushroomed to 52,000 from zero.
 ''It's one of the world's two biggest pools of high-value skills, which we want to leverage both to help clients in the domestic marketplace and to help clients globally,'' he said. ''The two play off each other.''
 The increasing interest of Western companies in rapidly developing countries like India, China and Brazil came to the fore last week. Reports emerged during a visit to New Delhi by Citigroup's chairman, Charles O. Prince III, that the company planned to eliminate or reassign at least 26,000 jobs, 8 percent of its staff. It will move many jobs to less costly American cities, and others to India.
 The bank has 22,000 employees in India, who are not part of the cuts. That reflects its role as Citigroup's fastest-growing international market in terms of revenue, said Mr. Prince, who predicted that overseas operations would supply most of Citigroup's growth.
 To underline the shifting geography of opportunity, Mr. Prince suggested days after the planned cuts became known that he would increase Citigroup's Asian work force by more than 10,000, through acquisition of banks in Japan and Taiwan.
 Still, specialists warned that a continued flow of work to India required drastic improvements in its educational system and basic facilities. Water and power shortages are endemic, and industry experts predict that India could lack 500,000 engineers by 2010. Yet the country has already tapped a deep well of English-speaking engineers, attracting more outsourced work than any other country.
 Alan S. Blinder, a former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve and economic adviser to President Bill Clinton, recently described outsourcing as a ''third Industrial Revolution'' that, by his estimate, poses a risk to the employment of as many as 28 million to 42 million workers in the United States. 
 ''We have so far barely seen the tip of the offshoring iceberg, the eventual dimensions of which may be staggering,'' he wrote in the journal Foreign Affairs .
 But Mr. Blinder, who teaches at Princeton, added that the consequence should not be large-scale unemployment but a shift in Western job markets.
 The West, he argued, would shed jobs in easily outsourced fields, like accounting, and increase work among jobs like police officers and doctors, which must be done in person.
 At the forefront of the outsourcing business is Infosys Technologies, an Indian company that has pursued a strategy of reinvesting the profits from low-skilled work into a vast upgrading of skills to prove itself to Western companies and fend off rivals from China, Eastern Europe and elsewhere.
 Infosys devotes $65 of every $1,000 in revenue to training. I.B.M., by contrast, spends just $6.56, according to a 2006 proxy statement.
 A few years ago, Airbus and Boeing were outsourcing work like digitizing old hand drawings. But they have begun to rely on their Indian suppliers for even more complex work, hiring aerospace engineers from state-owned aviation companies and scholars from Indian engineering colleges.
 Airbus hired Infosys, which is based in Bangalore, to design part of the wing of the superjumbo A380 aircraft. It is working with another supplier, Tata Consultancy Services, to build software for cockpits, with up to half of the hundreds of switches removed and replaced by touch screens. Airbus has hired a third Indian company to design and build jet doors.
 In the forthcoming Boeing 787, two critical systems -- one to avert collisions in flight and another to land in zero visibility -- will be built to a substantial degree by HCL Technologies, an outsourcing firm that has its headquarters outside New Delhi.
 ''In theory, we could place the work anywhere,'' said Ian Q. R. Thomas, the president of Boeing India. ''We're here because we found a level of sophistication.''
 Investment banks like Morgan Stanley, which have used Indians for basic research, are now hiring them to write reports for institutional investors on American and European stocks.
 ''Our analysts will cover equities on their own,'' said an advertisement posted on an Indian career site last year by Thomas Weisel Partners, an American investment bank. ''They do not report to another analyst in the U.S. They will do their own research, come up with their own opinions on the stock and offer them directly to U.S. institutional investors. Simply put, we are not a back office in India.''
 And in the complex world of pharmaceutical research, Western companies have evolved from outsourcing slivers of research to India to outsourcing whole phases of drug development.
 Eli Lilly's deal with Nicholas Piramal, an Indian company, sent ripples through the industry. Lilly turned over ownership of a patented molecule it had discovered to Nicholas Piramal to usher the drug through the first two phases of clinical development, including the first human tests of the drugs. Moreover, Nicholas Piramal agreed to bear the risk of the project's failing, in exchange for much larger royalty payments if it succeeded. 
 ''Nicholas will do the whole thing, at their expense, at their own risk,'' said Gino Santini, a senior vice president at Lilly.
 High-end outsourcing is only half the reason that companies are investing so heavily in India, executives say. As India has become a more lucrative market in its own right, many Western companies are looking to take advantage of its vast potential market for growth.
 And many executives argue that having a growing market and an outsourcing hub in the same place enriches innovation. 
 Having actual customers at the doorstep makes employees think more creatively about the problems of their own society, according to Ravi Venkatesan, the chairman of Microsoft India. Now that the Indian workers have more autonomy, he said, they are focusing on problems, like building software for the illiterate, that might not have occurred to American researchers.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Employees of Infosys Technologies arriving to attend classes at the training center in Mysore, India. The company uses $65 of every $1,000 in revenue to upgrade skills and prove itself to Western corporate clients. (Photo by Aijaz Rahi/Associated Press)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Globalizing India''Some multinational companies are outsourcing higher-value tasks in India, as well as pursuing growing markets there.AccentureGlobal work force: 146,000Work force in India: 27,000Percentage in India: 18.5%Outsourced services: By December, Accenture expects to have more workers in India than in its home base, the United States.I.B.M.Global work force: 355,766Work force in India: 52,000Percentage in India: 14.6Outsourced services: Indian teams now autonomously develop software solutions from start to finish for global clients.AvivaGlobal work force: 58,000Work force in India: 7,400Percentage in India: 12.8Outsourced services: The British insurer, originally in India to set up basic call centers, is now outsourcing actuarial work.CitigroupGlobal work force: 327,000Work force in India: 22,000Percentage in India: 6.7Outsourced services: 600 India-based analysts do high-end outsourcing, like analyzing U.S. stocks and evaluating creditworthiness of U.S. companies.Figures for Aviva do not include its domestic insurance business.(Source by the companies)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (89%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (79%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMISTRY (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); CHEMICALS RESEARCH (76%); ENGINEERING (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (73%); RANKINGS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ACCENTURE PLC (84%); ELI LILLY & CO (83%); AIRBUS SAS (57%); BOEING CO (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (54%)

TICKER: ACN (NYSE) (84%); LLY (SWX) (83%); LLY (NYSE) (83%); LEL (LSE) (83%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); MS (NYSE) (56%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (83%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (57%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARNATAKA, INDIA (73%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007



74 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: Nonprofit Doesn't Mean You Can't Wheel and Deal

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
Running the Urban Justice Center -- an organization founded more than two decades ago to advocate for New York's homeless population -- might not seem like the best credential for making a killing in real estate. 
 In recent years, the center's client base has expanded to include prostitutes, street vendors, victims of domestic violence and others among those it calls society's ''most deprived and abused people.'' 
Raising money to support such causes can be a challenge. And, in fact, no individual donor has ever contributed more than $10,000 to the nonprofit group, said Douglas Lasdon, the founder and executive director.
 Yet Mr. Lasdon has managed to create a sizable nest egg for his organization through a series of shrewd real estate maneuvers. Along the way, he has absorbed some harsh lessons about real estate transactions and has also learned how to drive a hard bargain, even with his brokers.
 ''The school of hard knocks in the not-for-profit world has taught him to be really tough,'' said Jeffrey D. Haroldson, the president of HDG Mansur Capital Group, an international real estate company, and an Urban Justice Center board member who met Mr. Lasdon at Cornell Law School.
 In his biggest coup so far, Mr. Lasdon signed a contract last month to sell the office condo that Urban Justice Center has occupied for a decade -- 7,700 square feet at 666 Broadway, at the corner of Bond Street -- to a fashion company, Fraxy, for $5.7 million, or nearly 10 times what he paid for it in 1997.
 This week, his group will move into 20,000 square feet of newly renovated space at 123 William Street at the below-market annual rent of $27 a square foot. 
 An unlikely wheeler-dealer, Mr. Lasdon does not own a cellphone or home computer, much less a BlackBerry.
 He paid no rent at all when he moved into his first office in 1984, in a burned-out building in East Harlem. ''For five years, they renovated around me,'' he said. For the next decade, he gradually traded up, moving to the area around the then drug-infested Tompkins Square Park and then to the Flatiron district.
 In 1996, when his lease was about to expire and comparable space was renting for about $18 a square foot, a broker offered him the opportunity to buy the 10th floor at 666 Broadway in NoHo for $700,000. Mr. Lasdon said he realized that if he could pare the price to $600,000, his annual mortgage and maintenance costs would total only $11 a square foot.
 At the time, few businesses, nonprofit or otherwise, were buying their own space. ''I asked myself, 'What is the reason I shouldn't do this?' '' Mr. Lasdon said. ''I couldn't find one.''
 Arnold B. Peinado III, a board member and partner at the law firm of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCoy, said the directors weighed the question carefully. ''The organization's mission is not to be in the real estate business, but instead to serve its clients,'' he said. ''It seemed at the time to be a bit daring, but probably economical, to go ahead and take a chance on buying a floor.''
 The seller had agreed informally on the $600,000 price but later tried to raise it, Mr. Lasdon recalled. ''We had a handshake deal,'' he said. ''I said, 'I'm not going to do it, as a matter of principle.' '' A week later, he got the price he wanted. The down payment was $100,000. 
 ''It was the deal of the century,'' said the broker who handled the purchase, David N. Lebenstein, now the director of the nonprofit division at Colliers ABR. ''We hit the timing right. But even then, he was trying to cut the price down.''
 As the Urban Justice Center grew -- it now employs 62 people and has an annual budget of $4.5 million -- it rented additional space in the same building. But last year, when additional space there was not available, Mr. Lasdon decided it was time to move. Twice he came close to buying space in Lower Manhattan -- in one case, the seller changed its mind after agreeing to a sale. ''Nothing's a deal until it's signed'' was the lesson that Mr. Lasdon said he drew.
 A couple of other disappointments followed, eventually leading him to conclude that condo space was out of reach.
 Nonprofit organizations that find themselves occupying valuable real estate often face similar obstacles, Mr. Lebenstein said. ''The problem is, where do they go?'' he said. Clients need to find new quarters, as Mr. Lasdon did, before giving up the space they have, he said.
 In October, Mr. Lasdon agreed to a lease at 123 William Street after getting the landlord to reduce the rent and his new broker, Mark Mandell, a senior director at Cushman & Wakefield, to cut his commission.
 Initially, Mr. Lasdon planned to rent out the office at 666 Broadway, but he found no takers. ''It was a bit of a mess,'' Mr. Mandell recalled. ''It didn't show as well as it might have if it were vacated, or even demolished.''
 Then, in the fall, the fashion company, Fraxy, offered to buy the space for $5 million. ''I said, 'If they're willing to pay $5 million, let's see how high they're going to go.' '' But as the price began to rise, Mr. Lasdon said, ''I started to get nervous. I was going to outsmart myself.'' Mr. Lasdon also negotiated with another potential buyer.
 Ultimately, Mr. Lasdon was able to drive up the price to $5.7 million. He also got Mr. Mandell to reduce his commission by one-third. (Mr. Mandell would not discuss the commissions he received.)
 Mr. Lasdon said he would have to set aside $200,000 a year in income from this windfall to cover the increase in rent, but will have plenty left over for programs.
 And maybe some real estate. He said he would like to develop a building for the sole use of nonprofit organizations.
 The real estate world can be ''frustrating and maddening,'' he said. ''But if it works out, it's terrific.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: The center is moving into space at 123 William Street at an annual rent of $27 a square foot.
 Douglas Lasdon of the Urban Justice Center sold his group's office condo for $5.7 million, nearly 10 times what he paid for it in 1997. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (91%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); HOMELESSNESS (78%); COUPS (77%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (71%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (71%); DIVESTITURES (71%); LAW SCHOOLS (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (62%); FASHION & APPAREL (50%) Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Homeless Persons; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Condominiums; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Urban Justice Center; Fraxy (Co)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (53%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (53%)

PERSON: Douglas Lasdon; Terry Pristin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007



75 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1674 words

HEADLINE: No Longer Waiting for Rain, an Arid West Takes Action

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD and KIRK JOHNSON; Randal C. Archibold reported from Yuma, Ariz., and Kirk Johnson from Denver.

 BODY:
A Western drought that began in 1999 has continued after the respite of a couple of wet years that now feel like a cruel tease. But this time people in the driest states are not just scanning the skies and hoping for rescue.
 Some $2.5 billion in water projects are planned or under way in four states, the biggest expansion in the West's quest for water in decades. Among them is a proposed 280-mile pipeline that would direct water to Las Vegas from northern Nevada. A proposed reservoir just north of the California-Mexico border would correct an inefficient water delivery system that allows excess water to pass to Mexico.
In Yuma, Ariz., federal officials have restarted an idled desalination plant, long seen as a white elephant from a bygone era, partly in the hope of purifying salty underground water for neighboring towns.
 The scramble for water is driven by the realities of population growth, political pressure and the hard truth that the Colorado River, a 1,400-mile-long silver thread of snowmelt and a lifeline for more than 20 million people in seven states, is providing much less water than it had. 
 According to some long-term projections, the mountain snows that feed the Colorado River will melt faster and evaporate in greater amounts with rising global temperatures, providing stress to the waterway even without drought. This year, the spring runoff is expected to be about half its long-term average. In only one year of the last seven, 2005, has the runoff been above average.
 Everywhere in the West, along the Colorado and other rivers, as officials search for water to fill current and future needs, tempers are flaring among competing water users, old rivalries are hardening and some states are waging legal fights. 
 In one of the most acrimonious disputes, Montana filed a suit in February at the United States Supreme Court accusing Wyoming of taking more than its fair share of water from the Tongue and Powder Rivers, north-flowing tributaries of the Yellowstone River that supply water for farms and wells in both states.
 Preparing for worst-case outcomes, the seven states that draw water from the Colorado River -- Colorado, Wyoming, Utah and New Mexico in the upper basin and California, Arizona and Nevada in the lower basin -- and the United States Bureau of Reclamation, which manages the river, are considering plans that lay out what to do if the river cannot meet the demand for water, a prospect that some experts predict will occur in about five years.
 ''What you are hearing about global warming, explosive growth -- combine with a real push to set aside extra water for environmental purpose -- means you got a perfect situation for a major tug-of-war contest,'' said Sid Wilson, the general manager of the Central Arizona Project, which brings Colorado River water to the Phoenix area.
 New scientific evidence suggests that periodic long, severe droughts have become the norm in the Colorado River basin, undermining calculations of how much water the river can be expected to provide and intensifying pressures to find new solutions or sources.
 The effects of the drought can be seen at Lake Mead in Nevada, where a drop in the water level left docks hanging from newly formed cliffs, and a marina surrounded by dry land. Upriver at Lake Powell, which is at its lowest level since spring 1973, receding waters have exposed miles of mud in the side canyons leading to the Glen Canyon Dam. 
 In California, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger has sounded alarm bells by pushing for a ballot measure in 2008 that would allocate $4.5 billion in bonds for new water storage in the state. The water content in the Sierra Nevada snowpack has reached the lowest level in about two decades, state hydrologists have reported, putting additional pressure on the nation's most populous state to find and store more water. 
 ''Scientists say that global warming will eliminate 25 percent of our snowpack by the half of this century,'' Mr. Schwarzenegger said recently in Fresno, Calif., ''which will mean less snow stored in the mountains, which will mean more flooding in the winter and less drinking water in the summer.''
 In Montana, where about two-thirds of the Missouri River and half of the Columbia River have their headwaters, officials have embarked on a long-term project to validate old water-rights claims in an effort to legally shore up supplies the state now counts on.
 Under the West's water laws, claims are hierarchal. The oldest, first-filed claims, many dating to pioneer days, get water first, with newer claims at the bottom of the pecking order.
 Still, some of the sharpest tensions stem more from population growth than cautionary climate science, especially those between Nevada and Utah, states with booming desert economies and clout to fight for what they say is theirs.
 Las Vegas, the fastest-growing major city in the country, and the driest, developed the pipeline plan several years ago to bring groundwater from the rural, northern reaches of the state. The metropolitan area, which relies on the Colorado River for 90 percent of its water, is awaiting approval from Nevada's chief engineer. 
 Ranchers and farmers in northern Nevada and Utah are opposed to the pipeline plan and have vowed to fight it in court, saying it smacks of the famous water grab by Los Angeles nearly a century ago that caused severe environmental damage in the Owens Valley in California. 
 ''Southern Nevada thinks it can come up here and suck all these springs dry without any problems,'' said Dean Baker, whose family's ranch straddles the Nevada-Utah border, pointing out springs that farmers have run dry with their own wells. ''We did this ourselves. Now imagine what pumping for a whole big city is going to do.''
 Meanwhile, Utah has proposed a $500 million, 120-mile pipeline from Lake Powell to serve the fast-growing City of St. George and Washington County in the state's southwestern corner. Nevada officials have said they will seek to block that plan if Utah stands in the way of theirs.
 ''Utah is being very disingenuous, and we're calling them on it,'' said Patricia Mulroy, the chief executive of the Southern Nevada Water Authority, the agency responsible for finding water for Las Vegas and its suburbs. ''St. George, Utah, is growing as fast as southern Nevada, because the growth is going right up the I-15 corridor.''
 Dennis J. Strong, director of the Utah Division of Water Resources, said Nevada was protesting too much and instead should be cheering the Lake Powell project because Colorado River water that Utah does not use would flow in Nevada's direction. Mr. Strong said that Nevada's protests ''may be a bargaining chip.'' He said he hoped for a compromise that would allow both projects to move forward.
 In Yuma, near the Arizona border with Mexico, officials have pinned hopes on a desalination plant built 15 years ago. The plan then had been to treat salty runoff from farms before it made its way into Colorado River headed to Mexico, thus meeting the terms of an old water treaty.
 But a series of unusually wet years made it more efficient to meet the treaty obligations with water from Lake Mead, so the plant sat idle. Drought has changed all that. Arizona water managers, who are first in line to have their water cut in a shortage under an agreement with other states, called for the plant to be turned on. 
 Under an agreement with environmentalists, the federal Bureau of Reclamation plans to monitor the environmental effects of using the plant, and study, among other things, using the purified water for purposesother than meeting its treaty obligations, like supplying the growing communities around Yuma.
 ''It never made sense to me to just dump bottled-water quality water into the river anyway,'' said Jim Cherry, the bureau's Yuma area manager.
 What unites the Western states is a growing consensus among scientists that future climate change and warmer temperatures, if they continue, could hit harder here than elsewhere in the continental United States.
 ''The Western mountain states are by far more vulnerable to the kinds of change we've been talking about compared to the rest of the country, with the New England states coming in a relatively distant second,'' said Michael Dettinger, a research hydrologist at the United States Geological Survey who studies the relationships between water and climate.
 Mr. Dettinger said higher temperatures had pushed the spring snowmelt and runoff to about 10 days earlier on average than in the past. Higher temperatures would mean more rain falling rather than snow, compounding issues of water storage and potentially affecting flooding.
 In some places, the new tensions and pressures could even push water users toward compromise. 
 Colorado recently hired a mediator to try to settle a long-running dispute over how water from the Rocky Mountains should be shared among users in the Denver area and the western half of the state. Denver gets most of the water and has most of the state's population. But water users in the mountains, notably the ski resort industry, also have clout and want to keep their share. 
 Robert W. Johnson, the Bureau of Reclamation commissioner, said he shared the optimism that the disputes could be worked out, but he said he thought it might take a reconsideration of the West's original conception of what water was for.
 The great dams and reservoirs that were envisioned beginning in the 1800s were conceived with farmers in mind, and farmers still take about 90 percent of the Colorado River's flow. More and more, Mr. Johnson said, the cities will need that water.
 An agreement reached a few years ago between farmers and the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California, the chief supplier of water to that region, is one model. Under the terms of the agreement, farmers would let their fields lie fallow and send water to urban areas in exchange for money to cover the crop losses.
 ''I definitely see that as the future,'' Mr. Johnson said.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 9, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Wednesday about the drought in the West referred incorrectly to the level of Lake Powell on the Utah-Arizona border. While the lake is at the same level it was in 1973, it is not the lowest it has been since then. It was briefly lower in early 2005.

GRAPHIC: Photos: More than 80 feet below its normal level, the receding waterline at Lake Mead in Nevada has left a fishing pier suspended over the lake bed. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
The chalky ring along the shore of Lake Mead in Nevada, left, illustrates the drought's effect on the water level. At the Red Rock Country Club in Las Vegas, some turf is being replaced with plants that need less water.
 Cattle herders in Spring Valley, Nev. A proposed Nevada pipeline would carry groundwater from ranching regions to serve growing Las Vegas. (Photographs by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. A12)Chart/Map: ''Areas of Long-Term Drought''Areas suffering the worst drought over the past eight years are illustrated by the Standardized Precipitation Index (S.P.I.).* The S.P.I. is a measure of the amount of precipitation within specific climatic zones over time.More people, less waterIn the Southwest, drought conditions and a population increase of more than five million people since 2000 have renewed concerns over the distribution of water from the Colorado River.*Data for March '99 through February '07(Sources by Pennsylvania State University Department of Meteorology, National Drought Mitigation Center)(pg. A12)Map of the United States highlighting areas suffering the worst drought over the past eight years. (pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (90%); DROUGHT (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (78%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (78%); FLOOD CONTROL (77%); WATER RIGHTS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); METEOROLOGY (73%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (72%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); SUPREME COURTS (62%); LITIGATION (62%); POPULATION GROWTH (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (93%); YUMA, AZ, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (93%); WYOMING, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007



76 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: To Fight Childhood Obesity, A $500 Million Initiative

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation plans to spend more than $500 million over the next five years to reverse the increase in childhood obesity. It is one of the largest public health initiatives ever tried by a private philanthropy. 
 ''This is an epidemic that is going to cost the country in terms of morbidity and mortality and economically,'' said Dr. Risa Lavizzo-Mourey, the foundation's president and chief executive. ''The younger generation is going to live sicker and die younger than their parents because of obesity.''
The foundation estimates that roughly 25 million children 17 and under are obese or overweight, nearly a third of the 74 million in that age group, according to Census Bureau data and a 2006 study published in The Journal of the American Medical Association. 
 Many of those children are poor and live in neighborhoods where outdoor play is unsafe and access to fresh fruits and vegetables is limited. ''In many cases, the environment makes it almost impossible for them to choose healthy lifestyles,'' Dr. Lavizzo-Mourey said. ''We're going to try to change that.''
 The foundation plans to invest in programs to improve access to healthy food, encourage the development of safe play spaces, increase research to enhance understanding of obesity and prod governments into adopting policies to address the problem, among other things.
 Experts on childhood obesity welcomed the foundation's plans. 
 ''Government grants for biomedical research in general, including obesity research, are being funded at the lowest levels I've seen in my career,'' said Dr. David Ludwig, director of the Optimal Weight for Life Clinic at Children's Hospital Boston and author of a new book, ''Ending the Food Fight.'' ''So we are especially dependent on philanthropic support.''
 Philanthropy has long fueled improvements in health, from John D. Rockefeller, whose money produced a yellow fever vaccine, to Bill and Melinda Gates, who are underwriting new health technologies and vaccines to address a variety of global problems.
 Robert Wood Johnson, who built Johnson & Johnson into one of the world's largest health and medical care products companies, established his foundation at his death in 1968 with 10,204,377 shares of the company's stock. He committed it to improving the health of Americans. 
 The foundation played a major role in curbing tobacco use in this country, spending $446 million from 1991 to 2003 toward that goal, and it plans to use those experiences to shape its attack on childhood fat.
 Since 1995, the number of adult and teenage smokers has declined 12.6 percent and 18 percent, respectively.
 ''It was a very carefully thought-out strategic initiative,'' said Joel L. Fleishman, a professor of law and public policy at Duke University. The foundation underwrote research, prevention and smoking-cessation programs, and increased awareness of smoking's dangers.
 Over the last few years, the foundation has pledged $80 million to childhood obesity programs, like grants to the Food Trust to persuade supermarket operators to return to poor neighborhoods.
 Its new effort intends to capitalize on and enhance efforts by the food industry and school districts and governments to address the problem, Dr. Lavizzo-Mourey said. Several snack food producers are making changes in their packaging and ingredients, and three soft-drink companies said they would no longer supply sweetened drinks to school cafeterias and vending machines. 
 Several states have mandated changes in school menus, increased physical education requirements and begun reporting students' body mass index scores to parents. 
 In Arkansas, which has one of the most comprehensive programs aimed at the problem, obesity among the 450,000 children in 1,300 public schools has plateaued. 
 Rhonda Sanders of Bryant, Ark., said learning that her daughter, Samantha, had a body mass index in the 95th percentile ''was a wake-up call, really.''
 Samantha, a 5-foot-tall, 137-pound third grader at the time, started jumping rope and bouncing on the trampoline, and the family banned eating in front of the television. 
 ''We didn't do anything life-changing, we didn't take away every bit of candy and chips, we just put some limits on it,'' Ms. Sanders said. Three years later, Samantha's B.M.I. score is in the 50th percentile. She favors fruits and vegetables and is on the school dance team. 
 ''I know it's not as simple for every child,'' Ms. Sanders said, ''but because children's bodies are changing so rapidly, a few changes in the way they eat and their activity level can really make a huge difference.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Samantha Sanders, 13, has lost 30 pounds, with her mother's help. (Photo by Rollin Riggs for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OBESITY (94%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (92%); FOUNDATIONS (91%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); CHARITIES (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); EPIDEMICS (78%); NUTRITION (78%); SMOKING (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); WRITERS (74%); FOOD SECURITY (73%); MOSQUITO BORNE DISEASES (72%); BIOMEDICINE (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (70%); CENSUS (70%); VACCINES (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Weight; Children and Youth; Philanthropy

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (63%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (56%); US CENSUS BUREAU (56%) Johnson, Robert Wood, Foundation

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (63%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (57%); MELINDA GATES (57%); JAY ROCKEFELLER (50%) Stephanie Strom

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007



77 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: 8-Month Jail Term Ends as Maker of Video Turns Over a Copy

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, April 3 

 BODY:
Eight months after he went to jail for refusing to turn over a videotape of a violent protest to federal authorities, a freelance videographer and blogger was released on Tuesday, ending what has been called the longest incarceration ever of an American journalist. 
 The videographer, Josh Wolf, was released after appearing before a federal judge here on Monday and turning over a copy of the video he had shot of a July 2005 anticapitalist protest in which a police officer was injured and someone tried to set a police car on fire.
Mr. Wolf answered two questions about the protest here, which coincided with a meeting of the Group of Eight economic leaders in Scotland, said his lawyer, Martin Garbus. Mr. Wolf denied seeing anything regarding the attack on the officer or the police car, Mr. Garbus said, and also posted all the video on his Web site, www.joshwolf.net.
 Mr. Wolf, 24, was jailed in August for refusing to hand over the video or testify despite a grand jury subpoena. While Mr. Wolf never testified in front of a grand jury, the judge, William Alsup of Federal District Court, said in the release order on Tuesday that the United States attorney now had ''all the materials sought in the subpoena.'' 
 While some critics, including Judge Alsup, had questioned whether Mr. Wolf, who was unaffiliated with any news organization, actually qualified as a journalist, advocates for press freedom hailed his release.
 ''Josh gave up his freedom for 224 days because he believes that a free and independent press cannot exist without a trusting relationship between a journalist and his information sources,'' said Lucie Morillon of Reporters Without Borders, an international freedom-of-the-press group. 
 Mr. Garbus also characterized Mr. Wolf's release as a victory because he did not testify or identify people on the video, sentiments echoed in a brief statement released by Mr. Wolf.
 ''The government met Mr. Wolf's demands: release him without appearing before the grand jury and without having to testify,'' the statement read.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Josh Wolf, a videographer, waved as he left a jail in Dublin, Calif. (Photo by Ben Margot/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); SUBPOENAS (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (89%); WRITERS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); GRAND JURY (88%); RIOTS (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); JUDGES (76%); LAWYERS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); SCOTLAND (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007



78 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Very Young Populations Contribute to Strife, Study Concludes

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

 BODY:
Iraq, Afghanistan, Sudan and Congo have all suffered horrors brought on by disastrous governance and violent conflict. But they, and many of Africa's poorest countries, have something else in common: very young populations.
 While it is not clear exactly how the age of a population contributes to strife, research by Population Action International suggests that it is no simple coincidence that 80 percent of the civil conflicts that broke out in the 1970s, '80s and '90s occurred in countries where at least 60 percent of the population was under 30, and that almost 9 of 10 such youthful countries had autocratic rulers or weak democracies.
In poor countries with rapidly growing populations, intense competition for education, jobs and land among the young contributes to discontent and makes it easier for rebel groups to recruit, said Elizabeth Leahy, the primary author of a new report for Population Action, a nonprofit group in Washington. 
 William L. Nash, a retired Army major general who now directs Center for Preventive Action of the Council on Foreign Relations, said: ''You've got a lot of young men. You've got a lot of poverty. You've got a lot of bad governance, and often you've got greed with extractive industries. You put all that together, and you've got the makings of trouble.''
 One strategy is to reduce the birthrates and the mortality rates of infants and younger children, according to Population Action, which hopes its research will improve contraception programs, education for girls and health services for children and pregnant women. 
 ''The budget realities are such that unless you can show how your programs help achieve larger ends -- security, development, poverty reduction, democracy -- traditional rationales for humanitarian assistance aren't enough,'' said Tod J. Preston, a senior adviser at the group.
 In a December 2005 report titled ''More Than Humanitarianism,'' a Council on Foreign Relations task force with bipartisan leadership called population a neglected area of American policy, one that could help lower the odds of conflict.
 Population Action's report, ''The Shape of Things to Come,'' features Nigeria, Africa's most populous country with 132 million people and a major supplier of oil to the United States, as an example of the strategic risks posed by youthful, volatile nations plagued by corruption, instability and poverty. Rebels there, enraged by the distribution of oil revenues, have attacked the industry, which is important to rich nations.
 In Nigeria, almost three quarters of the population is under 30. Birthrates are very high, at more than five children per woman. Less than half the women have attended school and fewer than one in 10 use modern contraception. A fifth of children die before they turn 5 -- a factor specialists say encourages couples to have more children to ensure that some survive.
 Almost a billion people live in countries where birthrates average at least four children per woman, among them, Nigeria, Afghanistan, Iraq, Pakistan, Somalia and Sudan. Those countries need help to improve infant and child survival and the educational status of women, to reduce population pressures and to become more stable, the report says.
 If nothing changes, the authors say, the populations of such countries will double in 35 years.
 Advocates at Population Action are critical of deep cuts in international family planning programs in the Bush administration's 2008 budget proposal, but a Democratic-controlled Congress is likely to reverse them, as the Republican-controlled Congress did last year. The advocates acknowledged that the administration's efforts to increase financing of programs to combat AIDS and malaria are likely to help prevent the deaths of many children -- another goal.
 The group's researchers found that some countries that have aggressively pursued family planning programs have significantly changed their age structures in a relatively brief span of 25 years. The report cites Iran as an example. Since the 1990s, Iran has made modern contraceptives available free at public clinics. Births are down to two children per woman, from six and a half at the time of the 1979 revolution.
 Lt. Gen. Claudia J. Kennedy, who is a member of the Population Action board and was in charge of Army intelligence when she retired in 2000, said the United States needed to focus more on efforts to improve the status of women and ease population pressures in developing countries.
 ''When people think reproductive issues are girlie because it involves a woman's biology, they ignore the social, political and economic impact of not paying attention to these matters,'' she said. ''And it reflects a pervasive attitude that if it's about women, it's unimportant, but if it's about what huge weapons system to buy, that's more manly and more important.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Somalis displaced by drought. Almost a billion people live in countries, like Somalia, where birthrates average at least four babies per woman. (Photo by Michael Kamber for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (89%); CHILDREN (88%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); WOMEN (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); POPULATION GROWTH (72%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (72%); CONTRACEPTION (69%); BUDGETS (69%); CORRUPTION (65%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: POPULATION ACTION INTERNATIONAL (58%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (93%); NIGERIA (92%); SUDAN (92%); SOMALIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007



79 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 455 words

PERSON: Maria Julia Hernandez

HEADLINE: Maria Julia Hernandez, 68, Rights Advocate in El Salvador

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER

 BODY:
Maria Julia Hernandez, a prominent human rights advocate who braved death squads to speak for the victims of the long civil war in El Salvador, died Friday in San Salvador, the capital. She was 68. 
 The cause was a heart attack, said her aides at Tutela Legal, the human rights office of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of San Salvador, where Ms. Hernandez was the founding director.
She spent nearly 30 years gathering evidence of massacres and individual killings, interviewing survivors, seeing that they stayed alive and compiling a book of the dead. It grew into an encyclopedia of political violence. In a land where the rule of the law was weak, she saw herself as a force for solidarity.
 She worked in a barely furnished room decorated by a cross and two photographs of Archbishop Oscar Arnulfo Romero, the church leader who was assassinated in 1980 by right-wing forces in El Salvador. He was killed while celebrating Mass, after calling upon the army to stop the shadowy death squads who were attacking real and imagined opponents of the status quo.
 The killing of the archbishop was among the opening shots of a civil war that lasted until 1992, though its aftershocks continue in El Salvador. It was also a central event in Ms. Hernandez's life, which ended 27 years to the day after the archbishop's burial.
 She had worked with Archbishop Romero, who was installed in 1977, at the start of a 15-year wave of violence that pitted a relative handful of left-wing guerrillas against the ruling class, the armed forces and the government of El Salvador. Most of the 75,000 victims of that violence were peasants who were killed while passively resisting the powers of the state. Also among the dead were American nuns, Jesuit priests and urban political advocates.
 Even after the war ended in 1992, the conflicting forces remained at odds, with criminal gangs playing the roles that death squads held during the cold war.
 ''Human rights today is a very delicate subject here,'' Ms. Hernandez said in a 2005 interview published in The Nation. ''The majority of people are threatened every day -- by the gangs, of course, but also by bandits and even the national police, who are very corrupt and take bribes. They also still use torture.''
 ''The same causes exist that were here before the civil war -- social and economic inequality, the threat and reality of violence,'' she said. ''The politicians are shouting now instead of shooting, but the conditions are the same as before.''
 She was born in 1939 in San Francisco Morazan, Honduras, to Salvadoran parents. Her family returned to El Salvador shortly after her birth. She never married, dedicating her life to the church and its work among the people of her country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (88%); CORRUPTION (78%); TORTURE (78%); COLD WAR (78%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); POLITICS (75%); BRIBERY (67%); MARRIAGE (60%); POLICE FORCES (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

Tim Weiner

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) EL SALVADOR (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONDURAS (79%)

CATEGORY: Social Activism

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007



80 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: The African Connection

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN. 
Maureen Dowd is on vacation.

DATELINE: NAIROBI, Kenya 

 BODY:
Was anybody out there checking out jobs with the U.S. post office in 2005? Do you remember when you called that 800 number to get details? Sure you do. Do you remember how the voice on the other end of the line helping you had this soft British accent with a slight African lilt? Do you know why? Because you were routed to a call center in Kenya.
 So maybe you weren't looking for a job, but you had just bought a new computer. And when you turned it on, you clicked the icon for one of America's biggest Internet service providers to get broadband access. But you needed someone to talk you through getting it connected -- so you called that 800 number. The techie who helped you was also a Kenyan at that same Nairobi call center. 
It's called KenCall. It is located in an abandoned avocado processing plant, and it is the largest of Kenya's blooming outsourcing call centers, with almost 300 employees and annual revenues that have grown to $3.5 million since it opened three years ago. If you're surprised it's here, so are most of its customers.
 ''I was actually talking to someone in America who had just given birth and she was ordering high-speed D.S.L. for her new residence -- three or four hours after the birth,'' said Nina Nyongesa, a 25-year-old KenCall supervisor and I.T. graduate of Nairobi University. ''She said to me, 'Where are you?' I said, 'Nairobi.' And she said, 'Are you sure?' And she was really happy -- so she bought one for herself, one for her mother and one for her mother-in-law. So instead of making one sale I made three.''
 KenCall is one small reason that Kenya's economy grew 6 percent last year. Yes, Kenya still has all the ills of other African states -- from AIDS to abject poverty. But Kenya also now has a democratically elected government that is learning to get out of the way of Kenya's entrepreneurs and to get them the bandwidth they need to compete globally. It's way too early to declare Kenya an economic ''African Tiger,'' but something is stirring here that bears watching -- and KenCall is emblematic of it.
 The company was started by the half-English, half-Kenyan Nicholas Nesbitt, his brother Eric and his brother-in-law Stephen Liggins. Nicholas Nesbitt and Liggins had made successful careers on Wall Street. But after Kenya's democratic elections in 2002, they decided to come home and see if they could do good for their country and for themselves by taking advantage of Kenya's large pool of educated, English-speaking talent to break into the outsourcing industry. 
 There was one big problem. Kenya, like the rest of East Africa, was not connected to any global undersea fiber-optic cable that would give it the cheap high-speed bandwidth of the scale needed by call centers. The Internet here all came via satellite, which is more expensive to begin with and was made even more so by the fact that the Kenyan state phone company had a monopoly.
 In a rare move in Africa, the Kenyan government decided to give up that monopoly and open competition for satellite-provided bandwidth -- even though it meant laying off 6,000 government workers. The competition made KenCall's business possible. The Kenyan government is now working feverishly to get connected to the global fiber-optic network, via an undersea cable, which would make bandwidth here cheap and plentiful enough for all sorts of outsourcing. 
 KenCall opened in late 2004, taking orders for U.S. late-night TV commercials. Its Kenyan operators sold Yellow Page ads, security alarms and mortgages. But it has since grown its business to include data-entry for one of the premier Wall Street credit-rating firms and handling service calls for global banks and insurance companies. For an economy dependent on coffee, safaris and flowers, this is a real change of pace. 
 ''The concept of connecting to the outside world and attracting investors from the outside -- that has not been here before,'' remarked Stephen Ogunde, another KenCall supervisor.
 KenCall's employees can make in a month what half of Kenya's population makes in a year: around $350. They get health care and free transportation.
 Don't give up on Africa. KenCall is a reminder that with a little less government regulation, a little more democracy and a lot more bandwidth, African entrepreneurs can play this game too. ''In the old days, 'landlocked' meant you didn't have a harbor,'' said Mr. Nesbitt. ''In the new days, it means you don't have fiber broadband to the rest of the world. This whole market here is just waiting for that.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CALL CENTERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BANDWIDTH (77%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (76%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (70%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (70%); BROADBAND (69%); ELECTIONS (66%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NAIROBI, KENYA (90%) KENYA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007



81 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 326 words

HEADLINE: Stay on Track

 BODY:
Americans made 10.1 billion trips on public transportation last year, the highest that ridership has risen in nearly half a century. That's good for congestion on the roads as well as the pollution that goes with it. But any mass-transit renaissance will come to a grinding halt unless a commensurate investment is made in upkeep and expansion. 
 As Libby Sander reported recently in The Times, Chicago's elevated train system, known as the El, appears to be near a breaking point. The second-largest public transit system in America after New York's is suffering from rising commute times as the century-old system deteriorates.
Public transit systems are financed through a combination of federal and local money, so parochial priorities play a big role in underinvestment. For instance, the Chicago Transit Authority's financing formula hasn't changed since 1983. But at the same time, the federal gas tax -- which contributes money for public transportation systems as well as highways -- hasn't changed since 1993. That means it hasn't even kept up with inflation in maintenance and construction costs, much less rising demand.
 Part of the trouble with financing for mass transit is that the upfront costs always appear prohibitively large (for the next five years, Chicago's regional authority is seeking $10 billion in state and local money) while the benefits are long term and extremely diffuse. As a result, projects often linger. Planners have been trying to build New York's Second Avenue Line since the 1920s.
 Worse still, when money is scarce it is insidiously easy to delay maintenance.
 Once a system begins to break down, it can hurt the quality of life and economic growth of a city. And it isn't just a problem for city dwellers. Buses and rail systems serve rural areas as well. Government officials around the country should take heed of Chicago's problems. Meanwhile, Congress should at a minimum bring the gas tax in line with inflation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); FUEL TAX (68%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007



82 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: It Didn't End Well Last Time

 BODY:
Not since the Roaring Twenties have the rich been so much richer than everyone else. In 2005, the latest year for which figures are available, the top 1 percent of Americans -- whose average income was $1.1 million a year -- received 21.8 percent of the nation's income, their largest share since 1929. 
 Over all, the top 10 percent of Americans -- those making more than about $100,000 a year -- collected 48.5 percent, also a share last seen before the Great Depression.
Those findings are no fluke. They follow a disturbing rise in income concentration in 2003, and a sharp increase in 2004. And the trend almost certainly continues, spurred now as then by the largess of top-tier compensation, and investment gains that also flow mainly to the top. For the bottom 90 percent of Americans who are left with half the pie, average income actually dipped in 2005. The group's wages picked up in 2006, but not enough to make up for the lean years of this decade. 
 Sensing a political problem, administration officials from President Bush on down have begun acknowledging income inequality. But in their remarks, they invariably say it has been around for decades and is largely driven by technological change. Translation: ''We didn't cause it, and trying to do something about it would be silly.'' 
 Let's get a few things straight: First, the economic gains of the last few years have been exceptionally skewed. From the 1970s to the mid-1990s, the gap between rich and poor widened considerably, but produced nothing like today's intense concentration of income at the very top. And from 1995 to 2000, the long trend toward inequality was interrupted by general prosperity. The richest Americans did best, propelled by stock market gains. But the lower rungs also advanced. 
 Second, government policies do matter. Part of the reason for the shared prosperity of the late 1990s was an increase in the minimum wage and a big expansion of the earned income tax credit. During the same period, a strong economy coupled with fiscal discipline -- including tax increases, spending cuts and binding budget rules -- conquered budget deficits and furthered job growth while providing a foundation for reasonably adequate social spending.
 In contrast, the economic policies of the Bush years have failed to benefit most Americans. The tax cuts have overwhelmingly benefited the richest. As a result, the tax code does less to narrow the income gap now than it did as recently as 2000. At the same time, important social spending has been cut. That exacerbates disparities, because middle-class and poor Americans use government services more than affluent Americans. 
 The nation needs an administration that will offer solutions for the scourge of income inequality. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); TAX INCENTIVES (85%); TAX LAW (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); TRENDS (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (72%); MINIMUM WAGE (72%); INCOME TAX (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007



83 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1501 words

HEADLINE: Do We Have the National Will to Fight Cancer?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 As the articles in ''Humans vs. Cancer: Who's Winning Now?'' illustrate (Op-Ed, April 1), there is no shortage of ideas for how to deal with cancer. What appears to be missing, however, is a sense of urgency -- an appreciation of cancer as the grave and growing crisis it is -- and the national will to confront it.
If terrorists unleashed a biological attack on American soil that started killing more than 1,500 Americans every day, as cancer does, wouldn't we mobilize every national resource to find an antidote or a cure?
 It is a national shame that many Americans -- racial and ethnic minorities, the poor and those with little or no health insurance -- are less likely to receive quality cancer care and therefore more likely to die. 
 As the American public and both political parties did when launching the war on cancer more than three decades ago, we need to summon the will to make cancer a national priority once again.Nancy G. Brinker FounderSusan G. Komen for the CurePalm Beach, Fla., April 2, 2007To the Editor:
 As the director of an infectious diseases research institute that emphasizes the bridging of clinical and academic worlds, I applaud Susan Love's call to change the dialogue and approach to cancer research (''To Break the Disease, Break the Mold,'' Op-Ed, April 1).
 Scientific discovery that addresses underlying disease mechanisms requires a union of physicians and academic researchers to develop novel approaches that can adroitly explore areas like host genetics while looking out for new etiologic agents. 
 Unfortunately, such high-risk science that challenges prevailing doctrine has been a casualty in a federal fiscal environment where biomedical financing is approaching 1 in 10 grants. 
 The cancer field may need to turn to a Gates Foundation-type approach for diseases of the developing world, one that emphasizes creativity and new paradigms to solve old problems.David Perlin Newark, April 1, 2007The writer is the director of the Public Health Research Institute.To the Editor:
 What should be stressed when thinking about cancer is the importance of basic science research. Currently, administrators who control resources for cancer research often place enormous emphasis on ''translational'' studies, speculating that we know enough about the basic principles of molecular, cell and organismal biology to translate the knowledge to cancer cures. 
 But as this year's Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine has shown, we have recently gained early glimpses of mechanisms of genetic control that were wholly unanticipated from earlier studies, and it could take a dozen years or more for that information to translate to the clinic. 
 Despite the temptation to assume that we know enough of nature's secrets to harness and prevent cancer, those of us doing basic research can see many vistas yet unexplored. It will take years, with many more unanticipated discoveries, before we should fully shift our gaze to translational science.Ken Zaret Philadelphia, April 1, 2007The writer is senior member and leader of the cell and developmental biology program, Fox Chase Cancer Center.To the Editor:
 I am glad that politicians feel strong empathy toward both Elizabeth Edwards and Tony Snow, but none of it will count for much unless we resume the war on cancer President Richard M. Nixon began in 1971. 
 Any candidate who cares about what this disease is doing to our people should commit to raising taxes by a specific amount that will finance the National Institutes of Health and other research institutes so that they have the resources to eradicate this disease. 
 I know that candidates are risk-averse, but anyone who cannot stand up to the misanthropes who would not pay more taxes to save the lives of family members, friends and fellow Americans does not deserve to be president. 
 One of the candidates should announce right now that he or she will impose a cancer tax. M. J. RosenbergChevy Chase, Md., April 1, 2007To the Editor:
 The Op-Ed articles about cancer on April 1 didn't discuss the crushing disparities that leave ethnic minorities, the poorly educated and the economically poor failing to receive early diagnosis and timely treatment that could save many lives even with what we know today. 
 Behavioral and public health research has shown ways to reduce these disparities, but this research gets minimal support from federal granting agencies compared with their investments in genetics and basic biological research. 
 Behavioral and public health programs have helped millions quit smoking and could make similar contributions to reversing obesity and its risks for both cancer and heart disease. But the research and the programs are poorly financed amid heavy promotion of the dream of the genetic fix. 
 We need a balance of research into both biological breakthroughs and behavioral and public health approaches.Edwin B. FisherChapel Hill, N.C., April 1, 2007The writer, a professor of public health at the University of North Carolina, is the past president of the Society of Behavioral Medicine.To the Editor:
 From pesticides to plastics to cleaning and hygiene products, we spend our days in a cloud of carcinogens. For each product, we are told, the amount of poison is too small to cause cancer. 
 But who is studying the cumulative effect of all the cancer-causing agents in the substances we touch, breathe, ingest or bathe in? 
 Several April 1 Op-Ed writers mentioned genetic vulnerabilities, but what about the environmental factors that may trigger those vulnerabilities?
 I'm not surprised by the lack of research on this. The companies that finance cancer research are often polluters themselves.Patricia Gordon Lamanna Poughkeepsie, N.Y., April 1, 2007To the Editor:
 Re ''Feeding the Cancer Machine,'' by Shannon Brownlee (Op-Ed, April 1): The purpose of screening is not to catch disease at its late stages, when aggressive treatment offers ''marginal benefits'' in exchange for lucrative profits, but to catch it before it has a chance to grow or spread.
 If caught in Stage 1, aggressive treatment can achieve five-year survival rates approaching 90 percent for both breast and prostate cancer. But most Stage 1 disease is asymptomatic. Without screening, patients show up later, with larger tumors and potentially metastatic disease. Five-year survival for Stage 3 breast cancer is 36 percent. For Stage 4, it's 7 percent. Screening isn't about profits. It's about saving lives. Suhael Momin Cleveland, April 1, 2007The writer is a medical student at Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine.To the Editor:
 Shannon Brownlee (Op-Ed, April 1) and Ralph W. Moss (Op-Ed, April 1) denounce the profit motive that drives hospitals and pharmaceutical companies to pursue lucrative strategies and ignore other possibilities.
 The reduction of Medicare payments for M.R.I.'s as well as for chemotherapy seems like a futile attempt to foil the profit motive when what is needed are more screenings, more clinical trials and special support for unpatentable therapies that work.Albert Henderson Milford, Conn., April 1, 2007To the Editor:
 Thank you to Betty Rollin (''Talk for the Cure,'' Op-Ed, April 1) for describing the immediate kinship that those of us who've had breast cancer feel for those who have newly received a diagnosis of the disease. 
 Recently in a restaurant, I saw an obviously bald woman, with a scarf loosely tied around her head, sitting with that same numbed look I had on my face six years ago. I approached her and told her that ''things would get better.'' She grasped my hand and asked me how long it had been for me, and when I told her, she thanked me. 
 Thank you, too, to Elizabeth Edwards for her candor and understanding that life must go on: this is what gives us courage. Believing otherwise makes us captives of the disease, and no one wants that.Carol G. FeldmanBoston, April 2, 2007To the Editor:
 Re ''Much Wider Use of M.R.I.'s Urged for Breast Exam'' (front page, March 28): A heartfelt thank you to the 969 women who agreed to have an extra diagnostic exam as part of the study that ultimately revealed that an M.R.I. scan for the contralateral breast is more effective than mammography in detecting additional breast cancer sites. 
 They knew that they were risking a ''false positive'' reading, but 121 women went further and had biopsies, of which 30 were positive for previously unrecognized cancer. 
 The other women who did not directly benefit from such a discovery are still rewarded in the knowledge that they have made a contribution to better health care for millions more. 
 These women will forever be anonymous to science and to us all, so let's take this moment to thank all the volunteers who stepped up to help advance the quality and effectiveness of health care worldwide by participating in this important research.Cindy BarnardChicago, March 28, 2007The writer is the director of quality strategies at Northwestern Memorial Hospital. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Scott Laumann) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (94%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ONCOLOGY (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (87%); NOBEL PRIZES (78%); BREAST CANCER (78%); BIOMEDICINE (76%); SCIENCE FUNDING (76%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (76%); ETHNICITY (74%); WRITERS (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (73%); MEDICARE (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (72%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (71%); TERRORISM (71%); ETHNIC GROUPS (69%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); FOUNDATIONS (67%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (66%); BIOLOGY (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING (59%); RACE & RACISM (54%) Cancer; Cancer; Tests and Testing; Finances; Medicare; Cancer; Breasts; Magnetic Resonance Imagers; Cancer

ORGANIZATION: CANCER CARE (56%) Komen, Susan G, Breast Cancer Foundation; Public Health Research Institute; Fox Chase Cancer Center (Philadelphia)

PERSON: Nancy Brinker; David Perlin; Ken Zaret; M J Rosenberg; Edwin Fisher; Patricia Gordon Lamanna; Suhael Momin; Albert Henderson; Carol G Feldman; Cindy Barnard; Susan M (Dr) Love; Shannon Brownlee; Ralph W Moss; Betty Rollin

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (59%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007



84 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: HOME AWAY: When You Buy Before It's Built

BYLINE: By AMY GUNDERSON

 BODY:
When Seth Ferman looked into buying a $3 million three-bedroom condominium on West Caicos, a Caribbean island that is part of the Turks and Caicos, the development was little more than a pristine stretch of beach. Instead of walking through model units that duplicated the apartment's 3,300-square-foot floor plan and opening closet doors, he drove around the property in a Range Rover for a tour of where the building would eventually sit. 
 It was one of many times that Mr. Ferman visited the site -- which will eventually include a Ritz-Carlton resort and condo units managed by the hotel chain. He asked about interest from other potential buyers. And he met the developers running the project. It was only then that he gave a 25 percent deposit.
"I really made an effort to get to know the development team," said Mr. Ferman, 42, a real estate developer who llives in Bedford, N.Y. "That was a big part of the decision." He now frequently checks up on the construction 
 process, which is scheduled for completion at the end of 2008. He monitors the project's Web site, and makes phone calls to the developers every few weeks.
 Buying into a development before construction has begun is not a new phenomenon, but with the slowdown in the real estate market -- and in condo sales in many areas -- the rules are changing. A few years ago, the incentive to condo buyers was clear: You would buy early, sit back and, by the time the building was in place, be pretty certain that the unit's value had increased substantially. But the days of buyers lining up for a condo in a building that might be years from completion are long gone -- and developers are facing a new reality.
 ''The world has changed quite a bit,'' said Edward Baquero, a managing partner with Coalco New York, a developer with projects in New York, New Jersey and Florida, including Villa Magna, 787 condominiums in two waterfront towers in Miami that are now in preconstruction sales. 
 ''It took about a year to sell 200 units,'' Mr. Baquero said, adding that in the heyday of the South Florida condo frenzy, ''the whole building would have sold out in five months.''
 But even with the falloff, preconstruction sales are continuing, however sluggishly, in places as varied as Telluride, Colo.; Donnelly, Idaho; the Hawaiian island of Kauai; and Las Vegas, which has seen a huge growth in condominium development in recent years but is now in the midst of a slowdown. 
 What has truly changed is the developers' mindset. 
 ''I don't know many developers that say, 'If I build it, they will come,' '' said Peter Forsch, the president of the Club at Spanish Peaks, a second-home community in Big Sky, Mont., that includes the Lodge at Spanish Peaks, a 49-unit condominium project that started sales earlier this year before construction began. ''Rather it is, 'If I sell it, I will build it.' '' 
 More than ever, developers are relying on preconstruction sales to give them the green light to break ground. Which means that in the markets with the largest drop in activity, like Las Vegas, it is questionable whether some planned projects will actually be built.
 ''From a supply standpoint there are a significant number of potential projects out there,'' said Brian Gordon, a principal at Applied Analysis, a Las Vegas economic and real estate research firm. ''There are only a dozen that are actively preselling that haven't commenced construction. Those projects are facing some challenges in the ability to generate sufficient sales and allow them to go forward. There has been some cancellation of projects that don't make financial sense at this point.''
 People thinking of buying early at a new project that might be years from completion should take certain steps to make sure that they protect their investment and end up with what they expect. 
 Mr. Baquero, the developer of the Miami project, recommends that buyers looking at preconstruction sales negotiate an exit strategy in their contract, especially as lead times in some markets grow longer. ''If the developer doesn't build by a certain day,'' he said, ''it triggers your right to get out of the contract.''
 While deposit money is kept in escrow, minimizing financial risk if the project doesn't go forward, the deposit usually does not earn interest. If that is the case, Mr. Baquero suggests that buyers negotiate to get interest -- a request he says more developers are accepting. ''Those things are available,'' he said, ''and developers are giving them for long-term projects.'' 
 It is also prudent to question the developer on changes that can be made to the project once the sales contract is signed. In some projects in the very early stages, for example, finishes and details like appliances might not be set in stone.
 ''We really can't change the layout or the floor plan,'' said Bill Krokowski, the executive vice president of Monument Realty, which is at the preconstruction sales stage on Silverline, a condominium in Mountain Village, Colo., with ski in/ski out access to the Telluride Resort. But Mr. Krokowski said that options like alternative finishes could come into the mix during the 30-month construction process. He said that since Silverline has just 90 units, it is small enough for the developers to update buyers regularly by telephone.
 There are also other potential pitfalls. Because buyers usually see only floor plans, and perhaps artist's renderings or model bathrooms or kitchens, they do not know how much light an apartment will get or whether a large bed will fit in the bedroom. When the building is completed, the reality can be very different from what the buyer expected. 
 Another expectation that may not be met is the overall size of the apartment. Yes, the square footage is provided in the offering plan. But the small print may include a disclaimer noting that the actual square footage may be different. For these and other reasons, real estate specialists suggest that before placing a deposit, a buyer should consult a real estate lawyer.
 Anyone buying early should also ascertain the current state of the local market and gauge whether the developer is offering incentives to lure new buyers -- which, though attractive to buyers in the short term, can put a downward pressure on prices, developers say. 
 But even with all these caveats, many people feel the need to buy early. When John Robbins, 56, bought a four-bedroom condo at the Lodge at Spanish Peaks, he was well aware that it will not be completed until 2010 -- a fact he said was just fine with him. 
 ''I'm a believer that in the right development, if you are willing to take a little risk upfront and don't mind having your money tied up for a while, you can make good money,'' said Mr. Robbins, a developer who lives in Concord, N.C. 
 Besides, he predicted, ''we will be out of the slump before my condo is even a reality.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (Photo by Illustration by Nancy Doniger) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); HOTEL CHAINS (75%); BEACHES (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (78%) HAWAII, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (77%); COLORADO, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2007



85 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 2561 words

HEADLINE: Reader Responses

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
The following are excerpts to David Leonhardt's April 4 column on the layoffs at Circuit City and the corporate safety net:David, I'm surprised you would suggest there is no economic logic to increased pay for more experienced workers. If the only measure of worker quality were efficiency, it might follow that greybeards with bad knees aren't worth the extra pay. But workers are not just machines -- even workers who run machines all day -- and the quality of their work can't just be tracked empirically on a flow chart.
 Experienced workers who interact with customers can generate goodwill along with increased sales. Those who work in the "back room" (or on the factory line) can contribute important suggestions for jobsite improvements. They are also typically more reliable than younger workers. 
 But there is another economic logic behind more pay for more age. In one sense a career can be thought of as a wasting asset--when it "expires" (at retirement or death), that's it. Game over. Thus it stands to reason that individuals want to feel like their career "asset" is increasing in value before it expires. You'd expect the same from an oil field.-- Max AlexanderMax, I do think that there are some solid economic reasons pay rises more rapidly than productivity over a person's career. For one thing, it inspires loyalty (a point that Ed Lazear, the current chairman of President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers, has made in his academic work). But I think it's also in part a social custom. And more companies seem to be deciding it's a social custom they no longer want to follow. -- David LeonhardtYour article, while well-intentioned, lacks a certain completeness in analysis that undermines your credibility. It is agreed that social safety nets can help dampen the otherwise harsh effects of pure capitalism, especially when those effects have an impact on our older, presumably wiser population. However, your assertion that government should step in and "save the day" without any mention of an individual's responsibility to use his/her resources (labor, education, financial) wisely is tantamount to the argument that America can "make" Iraq a democracy through the increased use of force. That is, it is simply ridiculous.
 The fact that U.S. savings rates are near zero if not negative, that our nation has elected an administration whose priorities are squarely aligned with further enriching the wealthy, and that so many have purchased homes beyond their means suggests that the real issue is individual accountability by Americans. No amount of government meddling can overcome people who are unwilling to show a little restraint and discipline.-- Cecyl HobbsGreat article, thank you. I found Home Depot used similar tactics with my wages when I invested three years of my life with them. After getting a score of 4, out of a possible 5, I received a $0.00 raise, after which my efforts as a sales associate where negatively impacted.
 This, after making a real effort, was more than a person should be subjected to, in terms of being treated with "decency".- Colin CampbellThere a few things that need to be done: Begin career development earlier in the education process in order to graduate a workforce that can fill the higher level positions that go begging, and as a result are filled by foreign workers, create a robust training program, increase awareness around skills, continuing education for those people already in the workforce, and revise the current healthcare system.- Steve GuineA critical thing that I think got left out of this cold-hearted calculation of worker's worth, is how much it costs to hire and train new workers. I simply won't shop in places where the sales associates don't know the product, especially for technical gadgets and consumer electronics. It's far more helpful to do my research online and shop there. If the local retailers can't pay there people enough to educate them and retain their experience, I won't patronize them.
 So there's the cost of hiring, the cost of training, and the cost of lost sales no wonder Circuit City is doing badly, and my local CompUSA just went out ot business. Perhaps if they tried a more win-win model like personal service to counteract online sales they would build CUSTOMER loyalty. But you have to build WORKER loyalty first.- Michele MatossianYour article also explains why, when you wish to buy something at Circuit City, the knowledge of their employees and the service, if you find what you need to purchase, is dreadful. Waiting in line for 1 clerk, that handles internet sales, store sales, and returns is a challenge. It is also why I no longer shop at Circuit City or Wall Mart.- Linda MetnetskyI first heard the retraining panacea trotted out years ago by Robert Reich, on public radio. I was a young IT professional then, and already skeptical of the whole notion of retraining, knowing just how fast things change, how easy it was to fall behind, and how much harder it is to learn with passing time -- just a glance at my parents struggling with every new device and social change, and it was obvious. Now that I am an older IT professional in a far more merciless corporate environment than then, I cringe when I hear the words "retraining" clopping around at the back of the mental barn of liberal economists, like the vague afterthought it always is. It is no more viable a solution now than it was then.
 I am sorry, but the option that is not viable here is to let massive companies like Circuit City treat their employees like last year's stock. At least if we want to maintain the thin veneer of living in a civilization, as opposed to a Victorian industrial slum. Placing some controls over what companies do to their employees and how they can do it, even at the cost of higher unemployment and a welfare state, would be tragic only to folks who'd like to see us return to a 6x12 hour work week.-- Robert GuidoSometimes I wonder at the arrogance of the bottom-line mentalities in American enterprises. What makes these policy-makers worth enormous salaries while making judgments about people they never see and don't know, in business situations they never enter themselves. If this is what stockholders want--a quick return versus a good, steady, respected business, they will reap what they sow. When you disrespect your employees, you end up harming your business reputation--they disrespect customers and, since they have nothing to lose, don't treat co-workers collegially or treat other business contacts well. The enterprise gets a reputation as a lousy place to work, awful with suppliers, and many long-term customers feel dirty dealing with it--just look at Wal-Mart.-- Carl Ian SchwartzWhen companies provide perverse incentives to their management in the form of bonuses tied to improving productivity, reducing operating expenses, and "wringing out inefficiencies", you can bet your bottom dollar that unbridled greed and selfishness will come to the fore. No longer is the prospect of a pat on the back, a promotion, or a salary increase sufficient motivation. The chance for the (personal) big score, by those in middle management on up to the CEO, ensures that any sense of morality and righteousness be damned. For the right price, most people in power can rationalize anything. This is the difference between capitalism in America today and how it was 20 years ago. And it's frightening.- Richard SurwiloI notice you did not mention that the CEO did not take a pay cut of his overly lavish salary, which in comparison is 3 timesthe amount of the Best Buy CEO's base salary. The debate for the coming decade will be not about the pension and health insurance but about how badly (and gleefully) are the CEO's going to squeeze their employees to their own (and the company's) benefit. Logic would dictate that firing your best sales people is counter productive to sales over the long term. If you have bad sales help selling merchandise, overall customer service will suffer.- Thanos PerlegasMy experience as both a corporate employee and a consumer of corporate stuff leads me to believe that corporations are grossly (qualitative standard) ineffective at exploiting the experience of their workers. To offset that failure, the companies dumb down their products, services and marketing along with the requirements for the resources (people) who produce the goods or deliver the services.
 The "Salesperson" who's familiar with the contents of the entire store is replaced by the "Hardware Associate" who knows a bit about what's in the hardware section. The Associate is replaced by the "Door Hardware Aisle Expert" who is, in turn, replaced by the "Doorstop Genius". The job descriptions get loftier, The pay and morale gets lower. The products become more generic and less diverse. After-market service and support, for which there is no substitute for experience, disappears entirely. The cost of goods rarely goes down.
 I suppose that I'm bothered by reading an article that employs a dubious business model to explain away corporate behavior which is not only extraordinarily greedy (qualitative again), but often self-destructive. I'd much rather read an piece about why Circuit City didn't fire the managers who couldn't control cost while improving service or one about what Investment Bankers and their ilk really do that justifies their apparent exemption from your analysis.-- David CohenIt took 60 years for us to realize that Karl Marx was wrong about Communism; it has taken 20 years for us to realize he was right about Capitalism.- Bob DolsenCircuit City employees did it to themselves. Have you ever tried to buy anything there? The employees fall in right behind the airlines as incompetent and totally disengaged. I would drive by a Circuit City and go 15 miles out of my way to find products that I need versus stopping at one of their stores. The employee population of Circuit City needs to look in the mirror and admit to themselves "it isn't about usit is about our customers". By the way, I am not saying that Best Buy and Comp-USA are significantly better. They are simply less "worse" than Circuit City.- Tom DeGroffIt's incredulous that someone writing for the New York Times to not mention the decline of labor unions as a reason for the cuts at Circuit City and general decline of wages and benefits across the board for working Americans.
 Did you actually think corporations gave all those benefits out of the kindness of their hearts? No, those benefits were forced out of corporations with the threat of withholding labor. The simple fact is that corporations hold a lot more of the cards. This isn't about economics, it's about raw power and the working person's lack of it these days.-- Steve DondleyWhat people seem to failing to notice about this is the statement is making to the consumers. Circuit City, already not known for its customer service, is telling all of us that they can serve us, the customer, with anyone off the street. The people they are letting go are the cream of their crop; the people who know how to do the returns, how to fill out warranties, and provide what little service Circuit City feels like providing. This company sounds like it is run by a management team that has never purchased, or shopped, in Circuit City, much less worked in the store to know how things should be run.- Steve KlineThe stock price of Circuit City is basically unchanged in the last 5 years ($20/share). What has the board done about management and what have shareholders done about the Board? They have problems a lot larger than 3,400 overpaid ($18/hr average) workers.-- Jack StockGreat article. This really isn't a new occurrence. I went to work for Sears Roebuck in the early 70's as a sales person. After a period of about 6 months as a 'part time' worker, I was put on at full time.
 (Part time was a joke of sorts. They would put you on the work schedule for 40 hours a week for a few of months. As the full 40 hour work week approached where they would have to begin to offer benefits, retirement plans, etc., they would move you to a 29 hour work week avoiding the pay-out of the benefits.)
 Then, in the mid 70's, all the legitimate full time sales employees were laid off. Some of the sales staff had 15 to 20 years of service and were no longer in the prime hiring age. The department managers were unaffected by this. Sears then hired all part time sales staff.
 No benefits, retirement, etc. I don't think my mom has shopped at Sears since.- Kent McLaughlinYou list several things that the government was going to need to do, but nothing about changing the way businesses are taxed, like the little game of going off-shore to avoid taxes and such.-- A.M. SolomonRecently, my wife and I went into Circuit City to buy a new laptop for my son. The salesperson we were dealing with was professional and pretty much knew what he was talking about. The problem was that while we were talking two young guys, sales people, had the stereo's system on so loud we could hardly hear. They were also goofing off and wrestling. Needless to say, it was unprofessional. My wife and I mentioned it and the volume went down - a little. We finally left and decided not to buy the laptop at Circuit City.
 Week later, we went to Best Buy. Very professional staff, well organized, and we ended up buying from them. Is there a lesson here?-- Philip E. QuigleyIt is curious to note that while the "safety nets"for the average worker are being drastically cut for the sake of corporate efficiency, the "safety net" for the average executive is being drastically raised, in many cases this occurs in spite of poor performance. The average worker assumes , probably correctly, that the two are connected.- Lars BorgesonI respectfully disagree with your statement that "If companies aren't going to provide health insurance, the government will need to." This either/or dichotomy is a phony one, since there are other options. Namely, how about if individuals buy their own insurance and health care in a competitive free market? To begin with, people need to be educated about the real purpose of insurance: spreading the risk to protect against catastrophic loss. Expecting insurance to pick up the tab for routine exams and check-ups is as unreasonable as expecting car insurance to pick up the tab for routine auto maintenance, repairs, and fill-ups. Furthermore, having a third-party pick up the tab -- as if there is such a thing as a "free lunch" -- seriously distorts price mechanisms because consumers don't know the cost of the services they are receiving, don't care what the cost is, and there is no incentive for them to shop around for a better deal.- Heidi CrimminI very much enjoyed your excellent article. But please don't perpetuate the false dichotomy about the possibilities for universal health insurance. A single-payer system and a pool for the uninsured are not the only choices. I'm an American citizen who has lived in Europe (Germany and the Netherlands) for many years. Health insurance is simply compulsory. For those with jobs, the premiums are paid by employer and employee. For students, the unemployed, etc., there are special low rates and the government helps out. The result: there are virtually no ''uninsured'' residents!- Joel Ethan Fried

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); SAVINGS RATES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ED LAZEAR (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2007



86 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Asia's Automakers Show Sizable March Sales Gains

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
Detroit's automakers stumbled in March while their Asian competitors took a sizable leap forward.
 Figures released yesterday showed that dealership sales declined at General Motors, Ford Motor and the Chrysler division of DaimlerChrysler, even though all three said they would cut back on deliveries to rental car companies to focus on more profitable sales to individual consumers and were offering some of the largest discounts in months.
 Toyota's sales, meanwhile, increased 7.7 percent, to a record of 242,675 vehicles, according to Ward's AutoInfoBank. The Toyota Prius, a hybrid car once viewed as a niche product, was one of the top-selling models over all last month as its sales more than doubled. 
 Honda and Hyundai both set March records for sales.
 ''The import brands are winning because they're more competitive,'' said Ron Pinelli, president of the Autodata Corporation, an industry statistics firm in Woodcliff Lake, N.J. ''The products that the import brands have are just the ones that are hitting a chord with Americans right now. The domestic makers, the reason their sales are down is they're still dependent on their trucks.''
 Over all, vehicle sales were down 3 percent from last March, which was the industry's peak month in 2006.
 Toyota took 15.7 percent of the United States vehicle market in March, up from 14.2 percent a year ago, and ahead of DaimlerChrysler's 13.4 percent, Autodata's figures show. G.M.'s share fell to 22.2 percent, from 23.3 percent, while Ford's declined the most, to 16 percent, from 17.8 percent.
 Together, the Detroit companies held 51.6 percent of the market, one of their worst showings ever, while the Asian brands accounted for a total of 41.9 percent.
 The Detroit automakers expect lower sales nearly every month this year, compared with the month a year earlier, largely because of their plans to cut deliveries to rental car companies. In January and February, however, they still managed to increase sales at dealerships, even though overall totals were down.
 But in March, G.M. said its dealership sales fell 6.2 percent, and Ford's declined 10 percent. Chrysler executives said retail sales were lower, but would not give a specific number.
 Those decreases occurred despite higher discounts aimed at drawing in shoppers. Chrysler discounted its vehicles an average of $4,351 in March, when the company offered truck buyers a free upgrade to its more powerful Hemi engine, according to Edmunds.com, a Web site that gives car-buying advice to consumers. Ford and G.M. each discounted their vehicles about $3,000, roughly three times as much as Toyota and Honda.
 ''The problem is they're running out of options for what to do with incentives,'' said Alex Rosten, Edmunds.com's manager of pricing and market analysis. ''Rebates have lost their luster, and everybody's tightening their lending requirements.''
 Asian automakers are also using heavy discounts to sell some of their larger vehicles, but they are having more success than the Detroit companies.
 ''The dealers are blowing these things out at a few hundred dollars over invoice,'' Mr. Pinelli said. ''But you're not going to blow them out unless American consumers want the product.''
 Ford's chief sales analyst, George Pipas, said the company would have done better in March if dealers had had more F-series pickups available. He said Ford, which has cut F-series production several times because of lower demand, might need to increase output later this year to avoid missing out on possible sales.
 ''This is a category that has become intensely competitive,'' Mr. Pipas said in a conference call with reporters and analysts yesterday afternoon.
 A reason for the competition is the recent introduction of new trucks by General Motors and Toyota. Toyota officials said yesterday that they were pleased with the first two months of sales for their truck, the Tundra, although they conceded that most buyers had been people who already owned a Toyota rather than converts from a Detroit brand.
 G.M.'s sales analyst, Paul Ballew, said, ''We're not seeing a big impact from the Tundra.''
 Chrysler officials said the company's sales had been affected by uncertainty surrounding its future. Its parent, DaimlerChrysler of Germany, said in February that it would consider selling Chrysler, and board members are expected to receive a barrage of questions from shareholders about a sale at the company's annual meeting in Berlin today.
 A Chrysler spokesman, Jason Vines, said most consumers who live outside of Germany and the Detroit area ''wouldn't know anything about it.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Chevrolet Impala
Dodge CaravanChart: How the Industry FaredMarch 2006Cars: 691,270Light Trucks: 834,435Total: 1,525,705March 2007Cars: 720,854Light Trucks: 813,167Total: 1,534,021CHANGECars: +4.3%Light Trucks: -2.5%Total: +0.5%ADJUSTED CHANGE*Cars: +0.6%Light Trucks: -6.0%Total: -3.0%ANNUAL SELLING RATE (millions)Cars: 7.58Light Trucks: 8.66 Total: 16.24How Automakers FaredGENERAL MOTORSMarch 2007 Sales: 228,047Adjusted Change*: -7.5%Market Share: 14.9%FORDMarch 2007 Sales: 255,444Adjusted Change*: -13.5Market Share: 16.7DAIMLERCHRYSLERMarch 2007 Sales: 345,668Adjusted Change*: -7.4Market Share: 22.5TOYOTAMarch 2007 Sales: 143,392Adjusted Change*: +7.4Market Share: 9.3HONDAMarch 2007 Sales: 41,984Adjusted Change*: -3.1Market Share: 2.7NISSANMarch 2007 Sales: 111,141Adjusted Change*: +3.9Market Share: 7.2HYUNDAIMarch 2007 Sales: 242,675Adjusted Change*: +7.7Market Share: 15.8Most Popular Cars and TrucksData for the United States.FORD -- Ford F seriesMarch 2007 Sales: 71,481Change from March 2006 Sales: -18.1%CHEVROLET -- SilveradoMarch 2007 Sales: 55,626Change from March 2006 Sales: -11.8TOYOTA -- CamryMarch 2007 Sales: 42,254Change from March 2006 Sales: +4.5DODGE -- RamMarch 2007 Sales: 38,301Change from March 2006 Sales: -4.6HONDA -- AccordMarch 2007 Sales: 36,506Change from March 2006 Sales: +18.8TOYOTA -- CorollaMarch 2007 Sales: 34,355Change from March 2006 Sales: +2.5HONDA -- CivicMarch 2007 Sales: 29,721Change from March 2006 Sales: -1.1CHEVROLET -- ImpalaMarch 2007 Sales: 28,505Change from March 2006 Sales: +14.2NISSAN -- AltimaMarch 2007 Sales: 27,521Change from March 2006 Sales: +11.6HONDA -- Honda CRVMarch 2007 Sales: 19,658Change from March 2006 Sales: +49.2FORD -- EconolineMarch 2007 Sales: 19,445Change from March 2006 Sales: +4.8TOYOTA -- PriusMarch 2007 Sales: 19,156Change from March 2006 Sales: +133.2TOYOTA -- TacomaMarch 2007 Sales: 18,243Change from March 2006 Sales: +12.3CHEVROLET -- CobaltMarch 2007 Sales: 18,061Change from March 2006 Sales: -16.0DODGE -- CaravanMarch 2007 Sales: 17,921Change from March 2006 Sales: -30.1BIGGEST GAINER: +133.2% -- Chevrolet ImpalaBIGGEST LOSER: -30.1% -- Dodge Caravan *Based on average daily sales adjusted for any differences in the number of selling days in a month. Sales for DaimlerChrysler include Mercedes
sales for Ford include Volvo and Land Rover
 sales for General Motors include Saab.(Source by Ward's AutoInfoBank) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (72%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%) Automobiles; Sales; Renting and Leasing; Records and Achievements; Automobiles

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (87%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Ward's Auto Info Bank; General Motors Corp; Ford Motor Co; Daimlerchrysler Ag; Toyota Motor Corp; Honda Motor Co; Hyundai Motor Co

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: Nick Bunkley

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007



87 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1706 words

HEADLINE: Vermont Becomes 'Offshore' Insurance Haven

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
At conferences of the offshore insurance industry, next to the booth for Bermuda, can often be found one promoting Vermont.
 While that may seem strange for a chilly, landlocked state, Vermont is an offshore haven in one very real sense: It offers American companies lucrative tax breaks through unusual insurance arrangements.
''Vermont does the promotion the same way Bermuda does the promotion,'' noted Andrew Barile, an insurance industry consultant.
 More than 560 United States companies, including Wal-Mart Stores, Starbucks and McGraw-Hill, have set up Vermont-based entities to insure their biggest risks and liabilities, giving them a tax benefit in the process. Vermont now rivals the Cayman Islands and Bermuda as the insurance destination of choice for American companies. 
 The most recent arrival is Wells Fargo, which was granted a waiver by the federal Labor Department in February to provide life insurance and long-term disability insurance to its 153,000 employees through its own private unrated insurance company in Vermont.
 With its wholly owned insurer, known as a captive, Wells Fargo will benefit from improved cash flow, new investment income and tax breaks totaling at least hundreds of millions of dollars over the next 30 to 40 years, according to Karin Landry, an insurance consultant at the Spring Consulting Group in Boston. She does not work on the Wells Fargo captive, and she said she based her estimate on comparable ones for corporate clients of a similar size. 
 Wells Fargo says that operating a do-it-yourself insurer in Vermont, rather than buying coverage from an independent insurance company, will save it money and increase the benefits it pays to workers.
 But Vermont's success in attracting insurance captives also highlights the many ways that American corporations are allowed to minimize their tax bills by moving their profits, intellectual property or liabilities to places that provide substantial tax advantages, whether it is a Caribbean island, Ireland or Singapore. And while many states in the United States provide tax breaks and subsidies to companies that move or expand operations in state, the benefits offered by Vermont are much larger. 
 Big financial services companies typically spend $25 million to $100 million a year on insurance coverage. Being insured through a captive cuts that cost for them by 5 percent to 20 percent, according to Nancy Gray of Aon Insurance Managers in Burlington, Vt.
 Vermont has had laws allowing insurance captives since the early 1980s. But it was not until the late 1990s that the state began promoting itself as an alternative to traditional offshore insurance arrangements. In 2001, the governor at that time, Howard Dean, declared that the state would ''overtake Bermuda'' as the place with the most insurance captives.
 The captive insurance industry, including insurers and the law firms that service the captives, is now one of the 10 biggest employers in the state. And while the companies set up captives to minimize federal taxes, the state taxes they pay on premiums account for about 2 percent of Vermont's annual budget, according to Daniel D. Towle, the director of financial services at the Vermont Department of Economic Development. 
 ''It's a great industry for a small state,'' he said, adding that insurance industry conferences in the state also bolster tourism revenue.
 Most of the captive managers and service providers are in Burlington, in two buildings that overlook Lake Champlain. The state's annual captive conference in August features a golf tournament and attracts industry executives from around the world, including the Caribbean. 
 ''It's the largest of its kind in the world,'' Mr. Towle said.
 Global tax havens typically tend to be in small countries with a strong rule of law. Vermont, with its captive insurance industry, is no exception.
 ''Our economic development people thought that for Vermont, like any small state with a small economy, this would be a perfect fit,'' said Molly Lambert, president of the Vermont Captive Insurance Association.
 It probably also helps that Vermont, known for its dairy farms and covered bridges, has a squeaky-clean image compared with Caribbean havens that have been in the news because of money laundering and other shady dealings.
 At first, the captives set up in Vermont were used to insure companies' warehouses or oil rigs or to indemnify executives. In recent years, however, a growing number of companies have been setting up captives to insure their employee benefits.
 Nearly a dozen large companies, like Archer Daniels Midland, H. J. Heinz, Alcoa and Sun Microsystems, have won approval from the Labor Department to put employee benefits like medical and life insurance into their private insurers. More than two dozen states, South Carolina, Arizona and Hawaii among them, also have laws that allow private insurers, but eight of the approved companies have chosen Vermont for their benefits captives. 
 Now some companies are looking to put their pensions into their Vermont insurers, according to Ms. Landry.
 She said that as work forces age, medical costs rise and companies increasingly seek to deal with all their risks by themselves, private insurers are ''an attractive option'' that can bridge the gap between ''buying traditional insurance or eliminating the benefits altogether.''
 Federal pension regulations include safeguards intended to ensure that employers do not abandon covered workers. The Employee Retirement Income Security Act, or Erisa, covers employee benefits from pensions to insurance for group life policies, health, long-term disability and accidents. Among the safeguards was a rule that functionally prevented private insurers from handling employee benefits.
 But in 2000, at the urging of Columbia Energy, now called NiSource, the Labor Department relaxed that safeguard, allowing the utility to become the first company to manage Erisa-regulated employee benefits through a wholly owned private insurer, based in Vermont.
 To deflect criticism, the agency introduced new safeguards. Among them is a requirement that captives insuring or reinsuring Erisa benefits have their policies initially written by a major, respected insurer before that insurer turns the policies over to the captive. They also had to hire an independent fiduciary, not overcharge the employees, promise to increase the benefits to employees and set the insurer up in the United States, not in the Caribbean.
 ''As regulators, we have a little more responsibility, because we're also insuring the employee, who is not a sophisticated buyer,'' said Derick A. White, director of the captive insurance division at the Department of Banking, Insurance, Securities and Health Care Administration of Vermont.
 Still, Mr. Barile, the industry consultant, says such arrangements are likely to prompt lawsuits from employees whose claims are denied by their employers. 
 For years, Wells Fargo has been using its Vermont insurance subsidiary, Superior Guaranty Insurance Company, to insure most of its other risks, like those for its property -- the bank's headquarters are in earthquake-prone San Francisco -- and those for its top executives, should the company ever face a financial scandal, as well as its auto warranties. 
 With its captive, Wells Fargo will be setting the rates and paying itself. Wells Fargo pays MetLife and Minnesota Life ''fronting fees'' to issue life and long-term disability insurance policies for the entire company through the bank's private insurance subsidiary. Then, MetLife and Minnesota Life transfer the risk of the insurance to Wells Fargo's wholly owned Vermont subsidiary. 
 Wells Fargo sets the rates for the policies, and sells them to itself, with employees paying monthly premiums to their employer.
 Because Well Fargo pays the benefits premiums to itself, rather than to MetLife and Minnesota Life, it can deduct all premiums for all of the insurance, including property and casualty and director and officers, in its captive. Under Internal Revenue Service rules, employee benefits in captives are unrelated business that makes all the business of the captive deductible.
 William J. Thompson, an actuarial consultant who is the independent fiduciary hired by Wells Fargo under Labor Department rules to review the financial health of the private insurer, said that ''one of the reasons employers are looking to do this is to get the unrelated business up to get the tax benefit.''
 But Wells Fargo may also have an incentive to charge itself lower premiums, to help keep costs down. Wells Fargo can also use the steady income of monthly premiums from employees to generate investment income.
 The Vermont subsidiary will be liable for the policies unless it takes out a layer of its own reinsurance, which would transfer some of the risk back to a mainstream insurer like MetLife.
 Proponents say that putting all sorts of different risks into a single insurer dilutes the risk to any single type of insurance. But critics contend that the arrangement can mask risks. 
 ''With Enron still blazed on every employee's memory banks, it is a worry that all of our life insurance, workers compensation, long-term disability and our 401(k) retirement and employee cash balance plan is all heavily invested in Wells Fargo subsidiaries and/or managed by them,'' a Wells Fargo employee, Bill Malak, wrote to the Labor Department in January, as part of a process allowing employees to comment upon the proposal.
 Mr. Malak works for a separate Wells Fargo insurance subsidiary, Accordia. He wrote that he was worried that the Wells Fargo subsidiary, Superior Guaranty Insurance, was capitalized at only $57 million.
 Wells Fargo declined to comment on the specifics of its reinsurance, but an outside lawyer for the bank from the Groom Law Group, a prominent benefits law firm, wrote to the Labor Department in January saying that the captive had adequate capital and was covered by reinsurance. 
 Still, in a brief telephone interview, Mr. Thompson, the independent fiduciary for the Wells Fargo private insurer, acknowledged that ''captives aren't as strongly capitalized, so it's a more risky venture.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Derick A. White, who regulates captive insurers in Vermont. (Photo by Caleb Kenna for The New York Times)Chart: ''Rivaling the Islands''A growing number of American companies have set up their own insurance units, known as a captive, in Vermont, rather than in offshore insurance havens.Graph tracks the following since 1997: BERMUDACAYMAN ISLANDSVERMONTGUERNSEYBRITISH VIRGIN ISLANDS(Source by Business Insurance)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CAPTIVE INSURANCE (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); INCOME TAX (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); CASH FLOW (71%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); DISABLED PERSONS (53%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (95%); INDEPENDENT INSURANCE CO LTD (66%); WAL-MART STORES INC (57%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (95%); WMT (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BURLINGTON, VT, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) VERMONT, USA (99%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); BERMUDA (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (76%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007



88 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section H; Column 1; DealBook; STRATEGIES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1484 words

HEADLINE: Will a Hedge Fund Become the Next Goldman Sachs?

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
IN 1988, a very young-looking 19-year-old Harvard student sneaked past the receptionist at the Boston office of Merrill Lynch, found the manager in charge of convertible bonds and struck up a conversation about the technical aspects of valuing those bonds. 
 A few weeks and some discussions later, the student, Kenneth C. Griffin, asked Terrence J. O'Connor, the convertibles expert, to open an institutional trading account with $100,000 he had collected from his grandmother and his dentist, among others. At the time, the size of the average institutional account was $100 million.
 ''My boss thought I was crazy,'' recalled Mr. O'Connor, who nevertheless persuaded his boss to let him open the account. 
 That gamble doesn't look so crazy today. 
 Mr. Griffin is the chief executive of Citadel Investment Group, one of the most powerful and fastest-growing companies in the hedge fund business, with more than $13.5 billion of capital. One of its two flagship funds, Citadel Kensington, had an average annual rate of return of 20.34 percent from 1998 through 2006 -- making it among the best-performing funds over time. Success, however, has forced Citadel to face the fact that it straddles two different worlds: the freewheeling world of hedge funds and the intensely scrutinized world of grown-up financial service companies with pesky shareholders and layers of conflicts of interest. 
 It is a challenge faced by other big alternative investment companies, like the Blackstone Group, which recently filed plans for a public offering. 
 If Goldman Sachs is sometimes accused of being a hedge fund masked as an investment bank, Citadel has elements of an investment bank disguised as a hedge fund, minus the investment bankers. 
 Besides trading for itself, Citadel has a stock loan department and has become one of the largest options market makers in the industry. 
 It runs two reinsurance companies and recently disclosed that it would provide administration services to other hedge funds, a lucrative business that is usually offered for hedge funds, and not by them. 
 In December, a Citadel unit raised $500 million in debt, a groundbreaking move for a hedge fund that further enhances its independence from Wall Street. 
 Mr. Griffin has ''institutionalized much of his business along the lines of an investment bank,'' said Richard S. Fuld Jr., the chairman and chief executive of Lehman Brothers, which does extensive business with Citadel. ''He's certainly involved in some of the same activities that a hedge fund is, but he's built more than that. He also acts as a broker-dealer and creates liquidity for investors. We have found many good ways to work together.''
 At 38, Mr. Griffin is straight from hedge fund central casting, with a lanky six-foot frame, steely blue eyes and an affection for Ferraris and modern art. (He recently paid $80 million for Jasper Johns's ''False Start.'') Born in Daytona Beach, Fla., he lived in Texas and Wisconsin as a child, and returned to Boca Raton for middle school and high school. His father was a project manager for General Electric. 
 His wife is Anne Dias, a multilingual Harvard Business School graduate who runs Aragon Global Management, a smaller, value-focused hedge fund. Their wedding took place in the gardens of Versailles. The couple recently donated $19 million to the Art Institute of Chicago, where part of the Renzo Piano-designed addition will be named the Kenneth and Anne Griffin Court.
 Mr. Griffin has said that he and his wife enjoyed one of their first dates at the museum. ''For us, our relationship with this great, encyclopedic museum can be described as 'love at first sight,' '' he said.
 Art and love aside, Mr. Griffin has not made his fortune with charm and grace. Interviews with more than a dozen people who have invested with or worked beside or for Mr. Griffin paint a similar picture: arrogant, unapologetic and extremely smart. 
 ''Is Ken the nicest boss in the world?'' asked Mark W. Yusko, a former chief investment officer at the University of North Carolina's endowment fund, and now the president of Morgan Creek Capital Management, an investment advisory firm. ''He won't win that award. But he's a great guy to work for because if you buy into the philosophy and the process and the system, you will be part of a great organization.''
 Like most great investors, Mr. Griffin seeks disruptions in normal patterns to make money. When Enron collapsed, he sent a team around the country to interview hundreds of energy traders, meteorologists and quantitative researchers. He hired seven to start an energy trading business.
 When Amaranth, the $9.5 billion hedge fund, blew up on bad natural-gas bets last summer, Citadel teamed up with J. P. Morgan to buy the book of energy trades. Citadel made a killing on the transaction, investors say. Now, as the market for subprime mortgages has imploded, Citadel has been on a shopping spree, acquiring assets and a portfolio of loans from ResMae, a bankrupt mortgage originator; and bought a 4.5 percent stake in Accredited Home Lenders, a troubled mortgage company. 
 ''When everyone is running away, he is adjusting his portfolio and buying more,'' said Mr. Yusko, a longtime investor. 
 Mr. Griffin declined to comment for this article.
 His beginnings are the stuff of hedge fund legend. Mr. Griffin started trading options as a Harvard freshman. To get price feeds, he had a satellite dish installed on the side of Cabot House dormitory. 
 While it is widely thought that Mr. Griffin did not graduate from Harvard, he in fact did, a year early with an economics degree. 
 Frank Meyer, then the head of Glenwood Investment Corporation, an alternative investment group in Chicago, met Mr. Griffin, was impressed and gave him $1 million to trade. Mr. Griffin, just old enough to drink legally, produced returns of 70 percent trading convertible bonds. In November 1990, he opened Citadel with $4.6 million. After three blowout years, the convertible bond market crashed, his returns cratered and investors pulled out a lot of their money. At an unusually young age, Mr. Griffin learned an important lesson: Liquidity -- access to money to be able to make trades -- is critical, and in times of distress, is often unavailable. 
 During the 1990s, Mr. Griffin instituted strict lockups, meaning that his investors had to trust him with their money for longer periods. The last lockups were put in place less than a month before Long-Term Capital Management melted down in 1998, causing the Federal Reserve to organize a Wall Street bailout of the hedge fund. That year, the other Citadel flagship fund, Citadel Wellington, had a return of more than 30 percent, partly because Mr. Griffin had the capital to play in a confused market. 
 After the financial crises of 1998, Mr. Griffin accelerated a process already under way: cutting Wall Street out at every possible turn. That meant securing sources of money through lockups, thinking about how to tap the public markets and starting businesses like stock lending.
 Mr. Griffin's funds grew as he posted big-number returns: Citadel Wellington had a gain of more than 45 percent in 1999 and about 53 percent in 2000. 
 By 2006, reflecting both the explosive growth of hedge funds over all as well as its own mediocre returns in 2005, Citadel was the 11th-largest fund with $12 billion. Forbes listed Mr. Griffin as the 204th-richest American in 2006, with $1.7 billion. 
 Success has not come without blips. Rush Simonson, a mentor and friend, sued Mr. Griffin in 2006, accusing him of stealing a business plan the two had put together. He later dropped his suit. Mr. Simonson's lawyer, Edward A. Wallace, declined to comment. Citadel helped finance a group of investors, including the Republican lobbyist Jack Abramoff, in the purchase of SunCruz Casinos, a fleet of gambling boats.
 Mr. Griffin has not been involved in the day-to-day trading for years; instead, he manages the more than 1,000 employees of Citadel. But he does get involved with decisions in each of the firm's seven businesses. For example, in 2005, when the convertible arbitrage world was tanking, he came down to the desk and took over.
 As assets continue to flood the industry, and as Citadel continues to grow, returns will be harder to come by. Mr. Griffin conceded that point in a 2005 interview with the Harvard College Investment Magazine.
 ''I don't think any industry has attracted as much capital over such a short period of time throughout history,'' he told the magazine. ''With that much capital flowing into the business, it is reasonable to conclude that the prospect for better than market returns going forward is bleak.'' 
 Of course, he aims to be the exception. 
 ''He's just as intense today as he was 20 years ago,'' said Mr. O'Connor, now a managing director at Merrill Lynch. ''He still wants to be the best.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: DEALER -- Kenneth C. Griffin, chief executive of the Citadel Investment Group in Chicago. (Photo by J. N. Bowles/Bloomberg News)(pg. H1)
 THE FACE OF SUCCESS -- Kenneth C. Griffin in a print advertisement for a Chicago Mercantile Exchange promotion called ''Smart People, Great Results.'' (pg. H6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (93%); BONDS (91%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (77%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (73%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); STOCK OPTIONS (69%); STOCK OFFERINGS (69%); INSURANCE (64%); REINSURANCE (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Hedge Funds ; Special Sections; Company and Organization Profiles; Stock Options and Purchase Plans; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); CITADEL INVESTMENT GROUP LLC (56%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (54%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CITADEL (83%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%) Citadel Investment Group; Goldman Sachs Group

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); BX (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%)

PERSON: RICHARD S FULD (53%) Kenneth C Griffin; Andrew Ross Sorkin

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007



89 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: With Corzine's Signature, Taxpayers' Burden Lightens

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

DATELINE: TRENTON, April 3 

 BODY:
Culminating a nine-month effort to bring some measure of relief to property owners in New Jersey, Gov. Jon S. Corzine on Tuesday signed into law the centerpiece of a package of bills that will give a tax credit of up to 20 percent to homeowners and force municipalities to cap annual local tax increases at 4 percent.
 The effort began last summer with a series of hearings around the state by committees made up of lawmakers, who had been urged by the governor and their own leaders to come up with a broad array of ways to overhaul property taxes. It ended in the current legislative session amid compromises and recriminations in partisan votes in the Senate and the Assembly. 
''We have laid down a framework that if we execute it will make a difference,'' Mr. Corzine said. 
 Under the tax credit measure, homeowners will receive a tax credit of $1,100 on average, and elderly homeowners will receive a credit up to $1,250. In all, 1.9 million taxpayers with annual incomes up to $250,000 -- or 95 percent of all property owners -- will receive a tax credit, and 800,000 renters will receive a credit of up to $350.
 And there is the 4 percent cap on local taxes, although towns and school districts will be able to apply for exemptions to seek voter approval to exceed the limit. 
 Mr. Corzine predicted that the new strictures would prompt creative cost savings by local governments and entrepreneurial approaches to raising revenue.
 In a ceremony at the War Memorial here, Mr. Corzine and the Democratic leaders, Assembly Speaker Joseph Roberts Jr. and Senate President Richard J. Codey, acknowledged that the measures were the result of compromise and fell short of what many had hoped would result.
 But the governor insisted that the bills represented ''extraordinary'' progress on a problem that has bedeviled the state for more than 30 years and which has resulted in average 7 percent annual increases in local property taxes in the last five years.
 He called attention to other parts of the tax package and said that when combined with the credits to homeowners and the caps on municipal taxes, the state had created the beginnings of lasting reform.
 He was referring to the creation of an appointed state comptroller; changes in public employee pensions; establishment of a process to streamline and consolidate local governments and school districts; and a pending labor contract that holds annual wage increases at 3 to 3.5 percent.
 ''It will take years to see if this unfolds as we hope, but the tax relief is real and the credits are on their way,'' Mr. Corzine said.
 But before the ink was dry, Republican legislators -- including some who had approved the measures -- condemned them as unsustainable fixes and an election-year gimmick.
 ''It is disgraceful that after all the grandiose promises, the governor and the Trenton Democrats have made that the best they could deliver,'' said the Assembly minority leader, Alexander DeCroce of Morris County, who voted for the plan.
 The Senate minority leader, Leonard Lance of Ewing, who voted against the tax credit measure, called the package ''modest tax relief but not property tax reform.''
 Observing that recent estimates by the state treasurer and the Legislature's own experts foresee a deficit of $2.5 billion in the years to come, he said, ''I have the greatest concern about its sustainability in Year 2 and onward.''
 Nor was Mr. Lance alone in his concerns. James W. Hughes, the dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University, said that he would not call the series of actions ''property tax reform as yet.''
 Taking account of the state's projected budget deficits and increases in debt service, Mr. Hughes said the current economic projections suggested that ''it will be difficult for us to grow ourselves out of the structural deficit'' with rising tax receipts.
 This prospect, he added, made it seem likely that the Legislature would seriously have to consider Mr. Corzine's idea of selling or leasing such state assets as the Turnpike and the lottery to continue the tax credits, a move that Democrats and Republicans alike are wary of.
 Jon Shure, president of New Jersey Policy Perspective, a nonpartisan research group, said that the group was certain that Mr. Corzine and others were ''not deluding people by trying to sell this as the ultimate in property tax reform.'' 
 But Mr. Shure emphasized that real reform rested in deciding how to shift the financing of education from local property taxes to more broadly based state and county taxes.
 ''If you want to spend half as much or twice as much,'' he said, ''you need a fair and adequate way to raise the money, and we aren't much closer to that today than we were before this bill was signed.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (84%); CIVIL SERVICES (79%); APPROVALS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (64%); DIVESTITURES (59%) Taxation; Property Taxes; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Local Government; Education and Schools; Law and Legislation; Comptrollers; Government Employees; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Taxation; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Wages and Salaries

PERSON: JON CORZINE (92%) Jon S (Gov) Corzine; Ronald Smothers

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007



90 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1416 words

HEADLINE: Bush Splits on Greenhouse Gases With Congress and State Officials

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER and WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 3 

 BODY:
A day after the Supreme Court ruled that the federal government had the authority to regulate heat-trapping gases, President Bush said he thought that the measures he had taken so far were sufficient. 
 But the court's ruling was being welcomed by Congress and the states, which are already using the decision to speed their own efforts to regulate the gases that contribute to global climate change. As a result, Congress and state legislatures are almost certain to be the arenas for far-reaching and bruising lobbying battles.
 Mr. Bush made it clear in remarks on Tuesday that he thought his proposal to increase automobile fuel efficiency was sufficient for the moment; he gave no indication he would ask the Environmental Protection Agency to regulate emissions of heat-trapping gases.
 ''Whatever we do,'' he said, ''must be in concert with what happens internationally.'' He added, ''Unless there is an accord with China, China will produce greenhouse gases that will offset anything we do in a brief period of time.'' 
 But with Congress and the states more determined than ever to act, some of the nation's largest industries -- including automobile manufacturers and the oil companies that make their gasoline, and electric utilities and the coal companies that fire many of their boilers -- now face the increasingly certain prospect of expensive controls on emissions of carbon dioxide, the most common heat-trapping gas associated with climate change. 
 At least 300 bills have been filed in 40 states that address heat-trapping gases and climate change in some form, said Adela Flores-Brennan, a policy analyst with the National Conference of State Legislatures.
 In Washington, Congress has already begun a process that would eventually apportion both the responsibility for cuts in emissions that could cost tens of billions of dollars and the benefits and incentives that could mean billions of dollars of new income. 
 ''Obviously, nobody wants to bear a disproportionate share of the burden,'' said Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the newly created House Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ''It's now going to be a multidimensional chess game with the planet's future in the balance.''
 The way legislation apportions emissions cuts among industries -- and, as important, how the credits earned by companies that reduce emissions are allocated -- will be the focus of the lobbying, said Mr. Markey and lobbyists for environmental groups and industry.
 ''It's incumbent on everyone to roll their sleeves up, if they haven't already, to deal seriously with this problem,'' said Luke Popovich of the National Mining Association, the trade group for the coal mine operators who will be at the center of the lobbying. ''If pain concentrates the mind, there will be more concentration on the issue now.''
 Coal is the major source of electricity in more than half the states, and coal is the fuel most closely associated with high levels of emissions of carbon dioxide. And coal interests have a bipartisan audience. The United Mine Workers is a natural Democratic constituency, while the National Mining Association has been a reliable supporter of the Bush administration. 
 ''There are differences within the industry,'' Mr. Popovich said, ''but we are allied in favor of a solution that preserves coal's growth in the United States.''
 Next to the electric-utility sector, which is responsible for about 40 percent of emissions of heat-trapping gases, Mr. Markey said, comes the transportation sector, which contributes roughly 30 percent. 
 The auto industry has long opposed increases in fuel-efficiency standards, which automatically mean a reduction in heat-trapping gases. The oil industry has resisted controls on carbon dioxide emissions. Until recently, the two industries, while occasionally sniping at each other, had avoided explicit endorsement of the regulation that was most feared by the other.
 But, with the likelihood of Congressional action increasing, that informal nonaggression pact has ended. Executives of the Big Three auto companies testifying in the House last month explicitly supported regulation of carbon dioxide. And a senior oil industry executive earlier this year gave a speech advocating increases in fuel economy.
 The Supreme Court found Monday that the Environmental Protection Agency had erred in justifying its decision not to regulate carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping gases. The court said that by providing nothing more than a ''laundry list of reasons not to regulate,'' the agency had defied the Clean Air Act's ''clear statutory command.'' The ruling also said that the agency could not sidestep its authority to regulate heat-trapping gases unless it could provide a scientific basis for its refusal to do so.
 In Congress, controls on automobile emissions remain a work in progress. In more than a dozen states, beginning with California in 2002, they have become a fact -- although these laws have been stayed pending legal challenges. Those challenges were greatly weakened, however, by the Supreme Court ruling. 
 ''States are not going to wait,'' said Dennis McLerran, executive director of the Puget Sound Clean Air Agency, created by Washington State. ''States are going to continue to act on this. If there is some confusion from this or if it creates greater pressure on Congress, then that's all to the good.''
 Washington is among more than a dozen states that have followed California's lead in setting goals to restrict carbon dioxide emissions, and it is one of five Western states that have formed an alliance to combat climate change. States in the Northeast have formed a similar alliance. 
 Several environmental leaders said the court decision could persuade still other states to pass climate-change legislation.
 Terry Tamminen, the former secretary of the California Environmental Protection Agency under Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger and now a private consultant to states pursuing California-style caps on emissions, said he had recently worked with elected leaders in Wisconsin, South Carolina, Florida and Maryland. Some of these states are more conservative than states in the West and Northeast and have not been strongly associated with efforts to restrict pollution. The court ruling, Mr. Tamminen suggested, ''will give cover for those Republicans who feel they need to take action.''
 ''They can say, 'Look, the debate is now over,' '' he said.
 California has been in the vanguard, first with its bill to regulate carbon dioxide emissions from vehicle tailpipes in 2002, and then with its landmark 2006 law requiring a 25 percent reduction in the state's carbon dioxide emissions by 2020.
 Arizona, New Mexico, Oregon and Washington have joined California to pursue a regional plan to cut emissions. The idea is to make it profitable for industries to pursue pollution reduction through cap-and-trade plans that would allow companies with emissions lower than the allowed caps to sell credits to companies that exceed them. 
 Most of the legislation in Congress follows the cap-and-trade model.
 Outside the West and the Northeast, states are still finding their way. In North Carolina, government commissions are weighing measures like restricting auto emissions and establishing so-called renewable portfolios, which many states are proposing as a way to balance their energy supply between carbon-producing fuels like coal, oil and natural gas, and clean, renewable fuel sources like wind and solar power.
 In Illinois, Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich has proposed restricting carbon emissions to 60 percent of 1990 levels by the year 2050, said Steve Frenkel, an aide to the governor. 
 ''You've seen a lot of leadership coming out of the coasts,'' Mr. Frenkel said. ''Looking in the Midwest, where there's a lot of coal and industrial pollution, how we handle this here is important for how we handle this nationally.''
 With about half the states getting at least 50 percent of their electric power from coal, Congress will have to wrestle with the disproportionate impact that climate change legislation could have around the country. 
 ''You've got 35 senators reliably for a pretty strong program,'' said David Doniger, a lawyer with the Natural Resources Defense Council. ''How do you get that to 50 or 60? You have to get senators who come from states where coal is important, autos are important and agriculture is important.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 10, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Wednesday about reaction to a Supreme Court decision that said the federal government had the authority to regulate heat-trapping gases misstated the cuts in carbon emissions that Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich has proposed in Illinois. By the year 2050, the proposal would restrict carbon emissions to 40 percent of 1990 levels -- not 60 percent.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger signed an executive order in January setting new low carbon fuel standards. (Photo by Rich Pedroncelli/Associated Press)(pg. A10)Chart/Map: ''State Initiatives''Setting goals for emissionsMap of the United States highlighting states that have: Adopted plans that outline steps to reduce the state's contributions to climate change . . .. . . and set a statewide goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissionsVehicle emissionsMap of the United States highlighting states that have: Laws that limit carbon dioxide emissions from vehicle tailpipesLaws pending or under considerationRenewable fuel for vehiclesMap of the United States highlighting states that: Require that gasoline sold in the state contain a certain share of ethanolOffer tax incentives and/or grants for ethanol production and usePower plant emissionsMap of the United States highlighting states that have/are: Regulations in place to cap or offset emissionsParticipating in a multistate accord, taking effect in 2009, to reduce carbon dioxide emissionsMass. and N.H. fall into both categories.Renewable sources of electricityMap of the United States highlighting states that have: Mandates that electric utilities generate a specified amount of the state's electricity from renewable sourcesNOTE: Data as of February.(Source by Pew Center on Global Climate Change)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); LOBBYING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%); MINES & MINING (70%); COAL MINING (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (70%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (65%); COAL INDUSTRY (65%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%); EDWARD J MARKEY (58%); BETSY MARKEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007



91 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: Pelosi, Warmly Greeted in Syria, Is Criticized by White House

BYLINE: By HASSAN M. FATTAH; Hugh Naylor contributed reporting.

DATELINE: DAMASCUS, Syria, April 3 

 BODY:
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi arrived in Syria on Tuesday for a visit that is seen as part of an attempt to sway Bush administration policy on Iraq and the rest of the Middle East. 
 Ms. Pelosi, the third-ranking elected official in the United States, behind the president and the vice president, is the most senior American politician to visit Syria since relations between the countries faltered in 2003.
She was greeted Tuesday afternoon at the airport in Damascus, the capital, by Walid al-Moallem, Syria's foreign minister, and was taken on a tour of the old part of the city. She was to meet with President Bashar al-Assad and other senior officials on Wednesday. 
 At the White House, President Bush criticized Ms. Pelosi's visit, saying it sent mixed signals to the Middle East and to President Bashar's government.
 ''Sending delegations hasn't worked,'' Mr. Bush told reporters. ''It's just simply been counterproductive.'' 
 The United States, which has accused the Syrian government of providing militants with safe passage into Iraq and of meddling in Lebanon's politics after its army was forced to leave there in 2005, has sought to isolate Syria economically and politically. Damascus denies the charges.
 On Tuesday, Ms. Pelosi, who is leading a high-level delegation of lawmakers, was expected to have dinner with opposition members and members of Parliament at the American ambassador's house. 
 The house has been unoccupied since the ambassador was recalled in 2005 after allegations that the Syrian government might have had a hand in the assassination of Rafik Hariri, the former Lebanese prime minister. 
 On a tour of the city, she visited the centuries-old Ommayad Mosque, interacting with Syrians at the mosque and at a market. She did not make any public comment.
 Her delegation includes Representatives Henry A. Waxman and Tom Lantos of California, Louise M. Slaughter of New York, Nick J. Rahall II of West Virginia and Keith Ellison of Minnesota, all Democrats, as well as David L. Hobson, Republican of Ohio. 
 Arab and Western leaders, as well as many Democratic and some Republican lawmakers, have increasingly called for the Bush administration to engage Syria in dialogue as a means to stabilizing Iraq and settling some of the region's growing political crises.
 In Damascus, many welcomed Ms. Pelosi's arrival as a breakthrough. 
 ''There is a feeling now that change is going on in American policy-- even if it's being led by the opposition,'' said Ziad Haider, Damascus bureau chief for Al Safir, a leftist Lebanese daily. Syrian officials are increasingly betting on improved relations with American Democrats, whom they expect to lead the United States in coming years, Mr. Haider said. ''Pelosi's approach represents a more practical policy; the administration's policy over the last few years has been based on demands and ideology,'' he said.
 In Damascus's old section where Ms. Pelosi's name had become a household word, many spoke optimistically of an impending change in relations. 
 ''Ms. Pelosi is going to be very happy in Syria,'' said Izzat Abdoulkarim, who runs an optical shop in downtown Damascus. ''George Bush says we are bad, but she will see this is not true.'' 
 He added, emphatically: ''She views the world through a different perspective than Bush. She's more open-minded.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: A vendor offered a handful of nuts to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi yesterday during her tour of a downtown market in Damascus, Syria. (Photo by Hussein Malla/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); POLITICS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (93%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (73%); HENRY WAXMAN (59%); TOM LANTOS (59%); NICK J RAHALL II (58%); DAVID L HOBSON (58%); LOUISE MCINTOSH SLAUGHTER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); KEITH ELLISON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (94%) OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); SYRIA (95%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); LEBANON (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007



92 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: 'Good News' For Edwards On Cancer

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa, April 3 

 BODY:
Elizabeth Edwards, who began her cancer treatments late last week, said Tuesday evening that she had received encouraging news from her physician and was determined not to let public curiosity and concern over her illness overshadow her husband's presidential campaign. 
 ''I honestly believe in candor and in full disclosure, transparency and all that stuff,'' Mrs. Edwards, 57, said in an interview here. ''On the other hand, at some point, it becomes an impediment to getting the actual message across.''
Two weeks after announcing that her cancer had returned, John Edwards, a North Carolina Democrat, and his wife made their first trip back to Iowa. They barely mentioned her illness during a public forum with nearly 1,000 voters at a Cedar Rapids high school, but Mrs. Edwards discussed her treatment regimen after the campaign event. 
 After visiting her doctor last Friday in Chapel Hill, N.C., Mrs. Edwards said she learned that her cancer was more likely than previously expected to be controlled by drugs that control excessive hormone levels. She said that her doctor initially believed she had a ''triple negative'' form of cancer, which would be harder to treat this way, but that additional testing revealed otherwise.
 ''It was very good news,'' Mrs. Edwards said, talking Tuesday about her treatment for the first time. ''It means that the available medicines to treat me are a larger buffet.''
 Sitting in a home economics room here, she pointed to a dark bruise on her left hand, from her first intravenous treatment on Friday. She is taking Femara, an aromatase inhibitor, she said, and her regimen consists of a daily pill and a monthly, 15-minute IV treatment. She is also part of a medical research study. 
 Since announcing their decision to continue with Mr. Edwards's presidential bid, she said she feared that the campaign message could be overtaken by questions of her health. So she wrote a posting on the campaign blog this week, thanking her admirers for their concern, but asking them to turn their attention to advocating for cancer research or improving health care policy.
 At the campaign event here, where people waved signs expressing their support for her, Mrs. Edwards did not discuss her illness. She urged Iowa voters, who open the presidential nominating season next January, to ''pay attention to what the candidates are saying.''
 ''I'll be constantly trying to change the subject to the bigger issues,'' Mrs. Edwards said, a smile growing across her face. ''I don't just want to be the wife with cancer.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Elizabeth Edwards in Iowa. (Photo by Charles Rex Arbogast/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (91%); ONCOLOGY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); CONTUSIONS (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); ENZYME INHIBITORS (67%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (61%) Presidential Election of 2008; Election Issues 

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (92%) Elizabeth Edwards; John Edwards; Jeff Zeleny

GEOGRAPHIC: CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (90%) IOWA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007



93 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: What About Those Other Iraq Deadlines?

BYLINE: By Leon E. Panetta. 
Leon E. Panetta is a former chief of staff to President Bill Clinton and a member of the Iraq Study Group.

DATELINE: SEASIDE, Calif. 

 BODY:
WHAT has been particularly frustrating about the debate in Washington over Iraq is that everyone seems to be fighting one another and forgetting the fundamental mission of the war. 
 Whether one is for or against the war, the key to stability is to have an Iraq that, in the words of the president himself, can ''govern itself, sustain itself and defend itself.'' Achieving that goal is largely dependent on the political reforms that Iraqi leaders have promised but failed to put in place in their country.
 As a member of the Iraq Study Group, I found that every military commander we talked to felt that the absence of national reconciliation was the fundamental cause of violence in Iraq. As one American general told us, if the Iraqi government does not make political progress on reforms, ''all the troops in the world will not provide security.'' 
 Instead of dividing over the strategy on the war, the president and the Congress should make very clear to the Iraqis that there is no open-ended commitment to our involvement. As the Iraq Study Group recommended, Iraqi leaders must pay a price if they continue to fail to make good on key reforms that they have promised the Iraqi people.
 In calling for a specific withdrawal date, the House and Senate versions of the supplemental spending bill send a clear message to the Iraqis (even if they do face a certain veto). The worst mistake now would be to provide money for the war without sending the Iraqis any message at all about their responsibility for reforms. Both the president and the Congress at the very least must make the Iraqi government understand that future financial and military support is going to depend on Baghdad's making substantial progress toward the milestones Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki has publicly committed to.
 Unfortunately, with a few exceptions, little progress has been made. Consider efforts toward stabilizing democracy and achieving national reconciliation:
 The Iraqis promised to achieve, by the end of 2006 or early 2007, the approval of a provincial election law (so far, no progress); approval of a law to regulate the oil industry and share revenues (while the Council of Ministers has approved a draft, it has yet to be approved by the Parliament); approval of the de-Baathification law to reintegrate officials of the former regime and Arab nationalists into public life (no progress); and approval of a law to rein in sectarian militias (no progress).
 By March, the government promised to hold a referendum on constitutional amendments (no progress).
 By May, the prime minister committed to putting in place the law controlling militias (no progress); the approval of the amnesty agreement (no progress); and the completion of all reconciliation efforts.
 By June, the Iraqi government promised to hold provincial elections (no date has been set).
 As for security issues, things are not going much better. The Iraqis have increased security spending over 2006 levels as promised, but they are falling behind on the number of battle-ready Army units.
 By April, the Iraqis want to take over total control of the Iraq Army (not likely based on current progress).
 By September, the Iraqis want to be given full civil control of all provinces (to date they control 3 of 18 provinces).
 By December, the Iraqis, with United States support, want to achieve total security self-reliance (too early to tell, but does anyone really find this likely?).
 Yes, there have been some notable successes. For example, the Baghdad government has made good on its promise to appreciate the Iraqi dinar to combat accelerating inflation, and has increased domestic prices for refined petroleum products. 
 But particularly in terms of reforms needed to reconcile Sunnis and Shiites, progress has been minimal. And unless the United States finds new ways to bring strong pressure on the Iraqis, things are not likely to pick up any time soon.
 In seeking support for the so-called surge and the supplemental spending bill, the Bush administration argues that American forces have to provide temporary stability to enable the Iraqi leaders to negotiate political solutions. True, but after a while this becomes an excuse for inaction on the political reforms that are essential to stability itself. 
 This is why the Iraq Study Group report made clear that ''if the Iraqi government does not make substantial progress toward the achievement of milestones on national reconciliation, security and governance, the United States should reduce its political, military or economic support for the Iraqi government.''
 Until the Bush administration and Congress can jointly convince the Iraqi government that this threat is real, there will be little chance of reaching the one goal on which Republicans and Democrats can agree: a safe, stable and prosperous Iraq.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (88%); APPROVALS (85%); LEGISLATION (78%); VETO (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS (72%); APPROPRIATIONS (72%); ELECTION LAW (72%); REFERENDUMS (65%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (60%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007



94 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:
A NEW SIDE TO VERMONT -- Vermont, which offers American companies lucrative tax breaks through unusual insurance arrangements, now rivals the Cayman Islands and Bermuda as the insurance destination of choice for many companies. [Page C1.] GETTING IN ON GLOBAL POSITIONING -- The United States monopoly on satellite navigation is about to be challenged. Russia plans to launch eight navigation satellites by the end of the year, seeking to take on a role as navigation technology becomes ubiquitous in the economy. [C1.] A BROADER SENSE OF OUTSOURCING -- The outsourcing of jobs to countries like India has increasingly included the jobs of Western white-collar elites, in fields as diverse as investment banking, aircraft engineering and pharmaceutical research. 
[C1.]ANOTHER TRY FOR TRIBUNE? -- Eli Broad and Ronald W. Burkle, the two Los Angeles billionaires who lost the auction for the Tribune Company to Samuel Zell, reconvened with advisers to consider making a new bid for the company, according to a person close to them. [C1.] TAX PREPARER FRAUD -- The Justice Department took steps to shut down franchises of the Jackson Hewitt tax preparation chain, charging that more than 165 stores had enabled thousands of customers to fraudulently obtain $70 million by falsifying tax returns. The I.R.S. commissioner, Mark Everson, above, said that the government's action was limited to certain franchises, not the Jackson Hewitt headquarters. [C3.] U.S. SUES ANTITAX ADVOCATE -- The leader of a nationwide movement that contends most Americans are not required to pay income tax was sued by the Justice Department, which said that his followers had used his scheme to avoid paying $21 million in income taxes. [C3.] AUTO SALES IN MARCH -- General Motors, Ford Motor and the Chrysler division of DaimlerChrysler all reported declines in dealership sales in March. Toyota, meanwhile, reported an increase of 7.7 percent, and sales of its Prius doubled. [C3.]RECORD SPEED ON RAILS -- A French high-speed train broke the world speed record on rail, reaching 357 miles an hour in a test. [C4.] BUYOUT FOR AUSTRALIAN RETAILER -- A consortium has offered to buy the troubled retailer Coles, the second-largest retailer in Australia, on terms that would make it the largest takeover attempt in Australia. [C3.] STATES EMBOLDENED ON CLIMATE -- President Bush said that he did not intend to use his authority to regulate the gases that cause climate change. But the Supreme Court's Monday decision is creating political momentum in a growing number of states to bypass the Bush administration and make their own rules. [A1.] NEWS CORP. ASSET SWAP APPROVED -- Shareholders of the News Corporation have approved an $11 billion asset swap that increases Rupert Murdoch's control over the company and transfers the DirecTV Group to Liberty Media, controlled by John C. Malone. Under the agreement, signed in December, the News Corporation will buy back Liberty's 16.3 percent stake in the company, raising the Murdoch family's stake in the News Corporation to 38 percent, from 31 percent. [C6.] DOUBLECLICK'S NEW VENTURE -- DoubleClick, which delivers marketing messages to Web sites and monitors how many clicks they get, plans to announce that it is setting up a Nasdaq-like exchange for the buying and selling of digital advertisements. Advertising. [C6.] HOUSING DATA HELP STOCKS SOAR -- Shares surged, pushing the Dow Jones industrial average to a five-week high, as the housing market and consumers showed signs of resilience and falling oil prices gave investors an extra reason to rally. [C11.]OFFICES RESURGENT IN MANHATTAN -- The strength of Manhattan's commercial property market is causing developers to rethink plans to convert aging office buildings into residential condominiums. [C8.]JPMORGAN MAY BUILD SKYSCRAPER -- JPMorgan Chase is in negotiations to build a 1.3-million-square-foot skyscraper in Manhattan near ground zero and bring thousands of employees downtown from Midtown, according to government officials involved in the negotiations. [B1.] JAILED VIDEOGRAPHER IS RELEASED -- A freelance videographer and blogger was released from jail, eight months after he was incarcerated for refusing to turn over a tape of a violent protest, ending what has been called the longest incarceration ever of an American journalist. [A9.]ONLINETHE EXECUTIVE PAY PACKAGE -- The latest on the compensation packages of corporate executives, gleaned from proxy statements and other documents, and interactive features on executive pay are at nytimes.com/business. TIGHTENING MORTGAGE REINS -- A growing number of New Yorkers, often with six-figure salaries and reasonably good credit, have begun to find that mortgages are harder to get as lenders try to stem losses from loans to the weakest, or subprime, borrowers. A report and slide show are at nytimes.com/realestate.MANHATTAN MULTITASKERS -- On bicycle, on foot and often behind the wheel, users of digital devices present potentially dangerous situations every day. A report and slide show are at nytimes.com/multimedia.

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks share prices of News Corporation for the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (90%); TAX CONSULTING (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); RETAILERS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (88%); TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (78%); TAX FRAUD (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (77%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (77%); CLIMATOLOGY (74%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (72%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); APPROVALS (72%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (72%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); SHAREHOLDERS (65%); CLIMATE CHANGE (64%); TRAINS (61%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (81%); DIRECTV (60%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); FORD MOTOR CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (81%); NWS (ASX) (81%); DTV (NASDAQ) (60%); GM (NYSE) (53%); FORDP (PAR) (53%); F (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (60%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (60%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (60%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (72%); SAMUEL ZELL (68%); RON BURKLE (53%); ELI BROAD (53%); MARK W EVERSON (50%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); JOHN MALONE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (93%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007



95 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dream Home Diaries)

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2007

SECTION: REALESTATE

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: 'Don't Hire Us Save Your Money'

BYLINE: ALISON DAVIS


HIGHLIGHT: The attitude is: Who needs a new car when the '89 Volvo, although a little rusty, still runs fine?

 BODY:
One thing I love about New England (where I live part time) is that people are proud of how frugal they can be. 
The attitude is: Who needs a new car when the '89 Volvo, although a little rusty, still runs fine?
Or: Why buy an expensive Oriental rug when you can get a durable knockoff at Building #19? (In Paul's and my opinion, it's the best discount store in the universe. The store's motto: "Suffer a little. Save a lot.") 
Then there's my personal favorite: Let's say you hire a contractor to tile the bathroom. And you have an idea about extending the tile around the sink. In New England, the contractor is likely to answer: "You don't want to do that. That's too expensive. But I have a different suggestion that will save you a ton of money."
While I've grown to expect this Yankee frugality in Massachusetts, I never thought I'd find the same attitude in Beaufort, S.C. That's why I was surprised when Allison Ramsey, the architectural firm that we were interested in hiring, didn't seem to want to take our money - or, at least, not very much of it.
I called and asked whom I should speak to about hiring the firm to design a home. 
"Do you mean you want to buy house plans?" asked the nice woman who answered the phone. 
"I don't think so," I said. "We want to design a house from scratch."
I was referred to another nice woman, Carson Bruce, who at first wasn't in. I sent her an e-mail explaining what we wanted. When she wrote back, it was clear she didn't want to take our money.
"We certainly appreciate your interest in our firm," she wrote, "but to put it simply, it is much more expensive to design a house from scratch. We usually start with a per-heated-square-foot fee. For example, a 1,500-square-foot house at $5 per heated square foot would cost $7,500." At this point, I was thinking: "Cool. That price is a bargain compared with the $70,000 the other architect was going to charge us."
But while I thought this was a good price, Carson apparently didn't. "If you were to customize an existing house, the cost would be $750 to purchase the stock plans.Then we would calculate how long it would take to make the changes. For example, if it takes 20 hours to modify the plan to your liking, and those hours are charged at $55 an hour, that would be $1,100 more, for a total of $1,850. This is a much more economical way to go."
Maybe Carson was from Massachusetts? In any case, she was doing that New England thing: "You don't want to do that. It's too expensive." 
But Paul and I really believed we didn't want to use existing house plans. I could see that I was going to have to give Ms. Bruce a call.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (76%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (88%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



96 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2007

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 256 words

HEADLINE: Faster Trains to a Cleaner World?

BYLINE: JAMES KANTER


HIGHLIGHT: Americans are famously wedded to automobiles and short-haul flights. But the times may be changing. 

 BODY:

A French high-speed train speeds over a viaduct near Aix-en-Provence.
Claude Paris/AP
Americans are famously wedded to automobiles and short-haul flights. But the times may be changing: Now California is looking at putting a high-speed rail system between cities like San Francisco and Los Angeles. A delegation of legislators from the Golden State are in France this week to learn more about the famously punctual TGV (Train  Grand Vitesse) system that links far-flung cities like Paris and Marseille and, as Nicola Clark reports in Tuesday's IHT, has turned once-quiet provincial towns into thriving destinations. And as Ariane Bernard reports today, the TGV is getting even faster. At a dinner Monday night organized by the French-American Foundation in Paris, the speaker of the California State Assembly, Fabian Nez, praised high-speed train travel as a way to ease congestion, reduce emissions - and bring people together who otherwise sit in their cars and never meet. The California legislator also said such a system could help inject new life into economically less dynamic areas of the state. What is your experience of high-speed trains? How long does a trip have to be in your mind to justify taking a plane over a train, the train over your car? Would your city or part of the world benefit from such a service? Or do you think that high-speed rail lead to such a high volume of new projects - such as new shopping and convention centers - that they end up creating new sources of emissions and even more car journeys?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HIGH SPEED TRAINS (94%); TRAINS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); EMISSIONS (67%) Consumers

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (90%); ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2012



97 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 136 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Yonkers: Mother Arrested Over Panhandling

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by John Harney

 BODY:
An unemployed mother of five has been arrested after turning her five children into beggars, the Yonkers police said yesterday. The woman, Antoinette Jones, 37, pleaded not guilty to endangering the welfare of a child -- a misdemeanor -- when she was arraigned on Tuesday in Yonkers City Court. She was released without bail after Judge Charles Wood issued an order of protection that bars her from seeing her children. The police said they discovered the panhandling when Ms. Jones's 11-year-old son was reported missing at a Pathmark supermarket about 8 p.m. on Monday. When officers arrived, Ms. Jones's 18-year-old daughter told them that Ms. Jones had made them walk several miles from their home to the supermarket, where they were told to stand outside and beg. The boy returned to the store several hours later. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PANHANDLING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILD ABUSE (90%); ARRESTS (90%); MISDEMEANORS (88%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (86%); BAIL (73%) Child Abuse and Neglect; Beggars

PERSON: Antoinette Jones

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) Yonkers (NY)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2007



98 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: Women Entrepreneurs Take On Rugged Alaska

BYLINE: By WELD ROYAL

DATELINE: JUNEAU, Alaska 

 BODY:
It's 9 a.m., the air temperature is 15, the Taku winds are blowing and the gun-smoke gray sky spews snow over Juneau. The February snow stacks up on the boat docks of Harris Harbor, but cannot match the knee-length brown rubber boots Laurie Lindsey wears. 
 Ms. Lindsey, 50, climbs onto the Kirsten Anne, a 49-foot ketch that sleeps eight and has been around the world twice. She is a 50-year-old entrepreneur with short black hair, long earrings, a quick smile and few wrinkles, despite 20 years working outside and one failed business. She started as a cook on a crab boat that fished year-round on the Bering Sea and by the late 1980s, she and her husband at the time, Glenn Organ, had their own commercial fishing business.
Credit card companies and banks categorized her as self-employed and in a high-risk business and would give her neither a credit card, nor a business loan. Then salmon prices plummeted and her company was sued by a crew member. ''We had a seaman's injury case,'' she recalls. ''It was fraudulent, but it took us over the edge, and we pretty much lost everything in 1993.'' 
 Five years later, Ms. Lindsey had recovered financially and started a new business on her own, a sailing charter that takes scientists and tourists around Southeast Alaska. Ms. Lindsey says being a woman business owner is easier now. ''Things have changed incredibly in the last 20 years.'' 
 Still, progress, especially in Alaska, has been slow. A December 2006 study by the Center for Women's Business Research in Washington, shows that in Alaska, women hold majority stakes in about 17,000 private enterprises. That is about 26 percent of all the state's businesses, and that puts Alaska toward the bottom nationwide when it comes to business ownership by women. By comparison, in Washington, 35 percent of all businesses are owned by women. In Maryland, and Hawaii they own almost one-third.
 Gwen Martin, the center's research director, points to the macho businesses that dominate Alaska's economy. ''The construction industry is huge, transportation and warehousing are big,'' she said. ''Those are fields dominated by men, and that may be one reason for fewer women-owned businesses.'' Nationwide, Ms. Martin says, women are starting to make inroads into these fields.
 Visitors like to compare Juneau to San Francisco, with its steep, winding streets and public staircases of hundreds of steps that lead to century-old clapboard cottages trimmed in pastels and clinging to a mountainside long ago settled by gold miners.
 A few blocks from the harbor, the historic Silverbow Inn is a European kind of place, a cultural center whose lobby has a mix of period photos and posters advertising arts events. It serves strong coffee, fresh bagels with salmon from a nearby smokehouse, shows independent films and is expanding.
 Jill Ramiel, formerly of New York, owns the Silverbow Inn with her husband, Ken Alper. Showing off a gallery space recently, while an electrician installed track lighting, Ms. Ramiel said she planned to display local artists and about 20 of them have inquired about the space. 
 A decade ago, she came to Juneau from Seattle, after finishing a master's degree in architecture. At first, she said, she wanted to open a luncheonette, but fell in love with the 93-year-old structure, known as the Messerschmidt Building, and saw it as a bagel shop and inn. She was 29, though, and did not have much collateral or any experience making bagels, but had a notion of how small business worked. Her grandmother used to run a liquor store on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. 
 Ms. Ramiel managed to persuade a local banker to lend her about $500,000 to buy the building and adjacent restaurant. In 2006, she went to the same banker and the Alaska Industrial Development and Export Authority, a state lending agency, for $900,000 to upgrade and expand the inn's number of rooms to 11.
 Ms. Ramiel is surprised to hear that Alaska is tough for women entrepreneurs, but acknowledges that she is treated differently from her husband, who owns a minority stake in the business and runs it with her.
 ''There's an expectation for me to wake up every day, put a smile on my face, and be chipper and supportive, even when things are going wrong all around me,'' she said. ''Sometimes I'm at my desk thinking about how to solve a problem and someone will walk by and say 'Smile,' but they wouldn't say that to my husband.'' 
 Finding workers has been a struggle. At the start, she imported friends with skills. One owned a bagel shop in Morristown, N.J. Ms. Ramiel went there for a month to see how to make a traditional-style bagel and persuaded her friend to pack up his family and move to Juneau. Another friend, a chef trained at a culinary school, moved from Seattle and worked the grill. 
 ''It's a smaller labor pool in Alaska,'' Ms. Ramiel said. ''Now we find people we like because of their attitude and then write job descriptions to fit their skills.'' For instance, the bagel maker is a college student who arrives whenever his schedule allows, often in the middle of the night. 
 Alaska is a giant state that spawns grand myths. One of them holds that men way outnumber women. In a few rural communities they do, but statewide the gender makeup is almost balanced. In Anchorage, women actually outnumber men, according to the 2005 American Community Survey. That has not made business any easier for Sharon Athas Cote, 43. 
 Ms. Cote, reached by phone at her Anchorage headquarters, says she dislikes complaining about troubles women face winning contracts and was reluctant to become certified under the federal government's 8a procurement program. It is intended to give women and other disadvantaged entrepreneurs a leg up in bidding. Her construction and trucking business -- SBH Services -- qualifies because it is 51 percent owned by women. Having the status can make a big difference in Alaska, where federal contracts on military bases and for infrastructure projects add up to billions of dollars.
 Then three years ago, Ms. Cote was bidding on a landscaping and construction job and went to interview for the project. ''I had to listen to the company owner lecture me for about a half an hour about how women were taking jobs away from men. He said for that reason, he wouldn't give me the work,'' she recalls. 
 Ms. Cote walked out, called her husband and said she was going to apply for the preferential bidding status, which she now has. ''I try to differentiate myself through service, but the 8a status has opened a lot of doors for me.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jill Ramiel runs the Silverbow Inn in Juneau with her husband. A state agency and a bank are helping finance the inn's expansion to 11 rooms.
 Laurie Lindsay of Juneau, Alaska, owns and operates a sailing charter. Alaska ranks low in the percentage of businesses owned by women. (Photographs by Michael Penn for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); WOMEN WORKERS (90%); WOMEN (90%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (89%); BOATING & RAFTING (77%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); CREDIT CARDS (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (70%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (70%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (69%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (68%); LOBBYING (67%); MEN (60%); CONSTRUCTION (50%) Small Business; Women; Boats and Boating

ORGANIZATION: Center for Women's Business Research; Silverbow Inn (Juneau, Alaska)

PERSON: Jill Ramiel; Laurie Lindsay; Weld Royal

GEOGRAPHIC: JUNEAU, AK, USA (96%) ALASKA, USA (96%); BERING SEA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Alaska

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2007



99 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Why That Hoodie Your Son Wears Isn't Trademarked

BYLINE: By HAL R. VARIAN. 
Hal R. Varian is a professor of business, economics and information management at the University of California, Berkeley.

 BODY:
The growth of the Internet has created significant challenges for intellectual property law. Virtually every day there is another story about online copyright infringement of some form or another. Music, photos, film, video, books -- all the content-producing industries are being shaken up.
 The legal motivation for patents and copyright is written into the United States Constitution: to promote the progress of science and useful arts. By granting innovators an exclusive right to their writings and discoveries, Congress provided a strong incentive to engage in innovation. As Abraham Lincoln put it, the patent system added ''the fuel of interest to the fire of genius.'' 
But intellectual property law is not the only way to provide such incentives. Ideas, for example, cannot be patented. Yet university professors churn out hundreds of thousands of publications each year that are full of ideas, both good and bad. The social norms in academia, among them citation requirements and plagiarism taboos, seem to work pretty well.
 Another industry that seems to get along well without intellectual property protection is the fashion industry. Brand names and logos are protected by trademark, but the design of clothing is generally not protected in the United States.
 Recently, two law professors, Kal Raustiala of the University of California, Los Angeles, and Chris Sprigman of the University of Virginia, wrote a fascinating paper that outlines the workings of the fashion industry and how it manages to function without much intellectual property protection. 
 At one time, the fashion industry did have a self-imposed system of intellectual property protection. In the 1930s, the Fashion Originators' Guild prohibited copying among its members and urged retailers not to sell items from those who copied other designs. The guild was reasonably successful in these efforts. But in 1941, the Supreme Court held that its practices violated antitrust laws, and since then the fashion industry in the United States has had no intellectual property protection for designs.
 A result has been that ''piracy'' of designs is common in the fashion industry. Designers constantly experiment with new shapes and colors. If a particular style catches on, it is quickly copied. Skinny jeans have been fashionable for the last few years, but there are signs that the trends are now moving toward straight-leg designs. If the tide changes, pretty soon everybody will be selling straight-leg jeans.
 According to Mr. Raustiala and Mr. Sprigman, the fashion industry can survive without intellectual property protection because of two interacting factors that they refer to as ''induced obsolescence'' and ''anchoring.''
 The first factor means that clothes become unfashionable before they wear out, so trendy people have to keep buying new clothes every year. When you are wearing the same thing as your cool friends, that's great. But when you start seeing that style on decidedly uncool people, it's time for something new -- which the fashion industry is happy to provide.
 But how do the fashionable decide what the next big thing is? Or perhaps more to the point: how does the fashion industry convey to their consumers what they should be wearing? How does the industry ''anchor'' the consumers in this season's fashions? This is where copying comes in. If all the designers are showing baby doll dresses in the spring of 2006, then there's a good chance that is what everybody will be wearing by the summer of 2006.
 Mr. Raustiala and Mr. Sprigman argue that the lack of intellectual property protection actually promotes the functioning of the industry. If the extension of copyright to fashion prevented clothes manufacturers from copying each other, the industry would be ceding a major role to the lawyers and become much less creative. We'd see the same thing year after year. In other words, women's fashion would look much more like men's fashions -- boring, boring, boring.
 Since I have the same fashion sense that most economists have -- that is, none whatsoever -- I cannot attest to the accuracy of the law professors' description of the fashion industry. But it is consistent with other examples of what happens when there is no intellectual property protection.
 The United States did not protect copyrights of foreign authors until 1891, since it was just too tempting to ride free on the production of those great 19th-century British authors. Clipper ships used to carry copies of Charles Dickens's latest book to America, where it was quickly rushed into print by dozens of printers and sold for next to nothing.
 Critics complained that these hastily produced books were poorly printed and cheaply manufactured. That may have been bad for books, but it is not such a big deal for that cheap, but fashionable hoodie sweatshirt your teenage son bought a few months ago, since he isn't going to wear it next season anyway.
 The United States started recognizing international copyright in 1891 partly to protect American writers from cheap foreign competition like the Dickens volumes. This was almost certainly the right thing to do, particularly since copyrights held by Americans received reciprocal recognition abroad.
 But not every industry necessarily benefits from strong intellectual property protection. In some cases, it appears that lack of protection can lead to a more vibrant and dynamic industry.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 9, 2007

 CORRECTION:
The headline on the Economic Scene column in Business Day on Thursday, about the effect of the Internet on intellectual property law, misidentified one of the areas facing the most significant challenges. It was copyrights, not trademarks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (96%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (92%); TRADEMARK LAW (91%); TRADEMARKS (90%); PATENT LAW (90%); COPYRIGHT (90%); ONLINE PIRACY (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (90%); COPYRIGHT LAW (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); PATENTS (90%); TRENDS (78%); PLAGIARISM (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); RETAILERS (66%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%) Apparel; Copyrights; Design; Trademarks and Trade Names

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (54%)

PERSON: Hal R Varian; Kal (Prof) Raustiala; Chris Sprigman

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2007



100 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: Quota Quickly Filled on Visas For High-Tech Guest Workers

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The federal Citizenship and Immigration Services reached its 2008 limit for skilled-worker visa petitions in a single day and says it will not accept any more, to the dismay of technology companies that rely on the visas to hire foreign employees. 
 The agency began accepting petitions Monday for the fiscal year starting Oct. 1 and said it received about 150,000 applications by midafternoon.
The temporary H-1B visas are for foreign workers with high-technology skills or in specialty occupations. Congress has mandated that the immigration agency limit the visas granted to 65,000, although the cap does not apply to petitions made on behalf of current H-1B holders, and an additional 20,000 visas can be granted to applicants who hold advanced degrees from American academic institutions.
 The agency said it would use computers to pick visa recipients randomly from the applications received Monday and Tuesday. It will reject the rest of the applications and return the filing fees.
 Employers seek H-1B visas on behalf of scientists, engineers, computer programmers and other workers with theoretical or technical expertise. About one-third of Microsoft's 46,000 employees in the United States have work visas or are legal permanent residents with green cards, said Ginny Terzano, a spokeswoman for the company.
 ''We are trying to work with Congress to get the cap increased,'' Ms. Terzano said. ''Our real preference here is that there not be a cap at all.''
 Compete America, a coalition that includes Microsoft, the chip maker Intel, the business software company Oracle and others, voiced its opposition to the visa cap in a statement Tuesday.
 ''Our broken visa policies for highly educated foreign professionals are not only counterproductive, they are anticompetitive and detrimental to America's long-term economic competitiveness,'' said Robert E. Hoffman, an Oracle vice president and co-chairman of Compete America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN LABOR (94%); IMMIGRATION (93%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (92%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (91%); PETITIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CITIZENSHIP (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); ELECTRONICS (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (76%); REFUGEES (73%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (72%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (50%) Computers and the Internet; Foreign Labor; Immigration and Refugees; Visas; Quotas; Labor; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (92%); INTEL CORP (84%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Citizenship and Immigration Services

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (92%); INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2007



101 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: The Consequences of Corn

 BODY:
By now most farmers know what they'll be planting this spring. And all across the country the answer is the same: corn, corn, corn. The numbers are surprising. Farmers will plant some 90.5 million acres of corn this year -- 12 million more than last year and the most since 1944. Soybean acres are down by more than 10 percent, and there are similar decreases in wheat and cotton. The reason for this enormous shift is, of course, the ethanol boom and the corn rush it has created. 
 If it were just a matter of shifting the balance in already planted acreage -- more corn, less wheat -- a point of economic equilibrium might be found soon enough. The real trouble comes at the edges. This corn boom puts pressure on land that has been set aside as part of the United States Department of Agriculture's Conservation Reserve Program. Since the mid-1980s, farmers have enrolled some 37 million acres of farmland in the program. This is land that has been returned to nature, and it is part of what Americans pay for through the farm bill. Much of it is unsuitable for crops -- too hilly, too wet, too valuable as wildlife habitat -- but when corn prices are this high, the idea of suitable changes swiftly.
Agricultural interest groups have begun to call on the Department of Agriculture to release some of this land from the reserve so that farmers can put it into corn production. The U.S.D.A. has temporarily halted new enrollments in the program, and though it will probably not release land this year, the pressure to do so will only increase.
 Much as we like the idea of ethanol production -- and especially the potential of cellulosic ethanol, from sources other than corn -- it would be a tragic mistake to jettison two decades of farm-based conservation for short-term profit. Corn ethanol will replace only a small fraction of the petroleum we use, and if it does so at the cost of a new agricultural land rush, then we will have lost much more in conservation than we gained in energy independence.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOFUELS (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); CROP & LIVESTOCK ALLOCATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ALCOHOLS (89%); CORN FARMING (89%); ETHANOL (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (88%); CORN MARKETS (78%); AGRICULTURE & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (77%); WILDLIFE (77%); SOYBEAN FARMING (73%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (73%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (68%) Grain; Editorials; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Ethanol; Crop Controls and Subsidies

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (83%) Agriculture Department

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2007



102 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: What We Can Learn From Britain About Iran

BYLINE: By Vali Nasr and Ray Takeyh. 
Vali Nasr is a professor at the Naval Postgraduate School and the author of ''The Shia Revival: How Conflicts Within Islam Will Shape the Future.'' Ray Takeyh is a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and the author of ''Hidden Iran: Paradox and Power in the Islamic Republic.''

 BODY:
THROUGH the capture of and subsequent announcement that it would release 15 British sailors and marines, the Islamic Republic of Iran sent its adversaries a pointed message: just as Iran will meet confrontation with confrontation, it will respond to what it perceives as flexibility with pragmatism. This message is worth heeding as the United States and Iran seem to be moving inexorably toward conflict.
 The timing of the Britons' capture was no accident. The incident followed the passage of a United Nations resolution censuring Iran for its nuclear infractions, the dispatch of American aircraft carriers to the Persian Gulf and the American sanctioning of Iranian banks. Although the Bush administration has been busy proclaiming its increasingly confrontational Iran policy a success, Tehran's unsubtle conduct in the Persian Gulf suggests otherwise.
Had the British followed the American example, once the sailors and marines were seized, they could have escalated the conflict by pursuing the matter more forcefully at the United Nations or sending additional naval vessels to the area. Instead, the British tempered their rhetoric and insisted that diplomacy was the only means of resolving the conflict. The Iranians received this as pragmatism on London's part and responded in kind. 
 The United States, meanwhile, has pursued its policy of coercion for two months now, and one is hard-pressed to find evidence of success. Beyond even the symbolic move of apprehending the British sailors, Iran's intransigent position on the nuclear issue remains unchanged. To underscore that point, Iran has scaled back cooperation with the International Atomic Energy Agency and released a new currency note adorned with a nuclear emblem.
 Moreover, although Iran has proved willing to talk to Saudi Arabia, especially regarding Lebanon, it has yielded no new ground. In fact, Saudi Arabia's concerns, relayed to Iran's chief nuclear negotiator, Ali Larijani, during his visit to Riyadh in January, went unanswered. And if the March 10 meeting of neighbors in Baghdad was supposed to bring a chastened Iran to the table, the opposite happened. Far from being accommodating, Iran boldly asked for a timetable for the withdrawal of American troops from Iraq. But the meeting was noteworthy in making a show of Iran's regional influence and its importance to the future of Iraq. 
 The United States faces a stark choice: it will have to either escalate its confrontational policy or adopt a policy of engagement. Far from arresting the Iranian danger, escalation would most likely present the United States with new perils. Given the balance of power in the region, a continued confrontational course with Iran would saddle the United States with a commitment to staying in the Persian Gulf indefinitely and deploying to other conflict areas in an environment of growing radicalism. It would place the United States at the heart of the region's conflicts, leaving it all the more vulnerable to ideological extremism and terrorism at home and abroad.
 Beyond such concerns, a continued policy of confrontation will also complicate America's Iraq policy. Just as Iraqi Sunnis have cultural and political ties with Sunni Arab states and look to them for support, Iraqi Shiites trust and depend on Iran. An Iraq policy that allies the United States with Sunni Arab governments to eliminate Iranian influence in Iraq will be construed as biased against the Shiites. Such a policy will not win the support of the Shiite-dominated government on which the success of the new American strategy depends. 
 Since the United States entered Iraq in 2003, Washington has complained about Iran's meddling, and about its involvement with radical groups and militias. Still, Iran, far more than any of the Sunni Arab regimes, has also supported the Shiite-dominated government and the Iraqi political process that brought it to power. If Iraq were to exclude Iran and seek to diminish its regional influence, Iran would have no further vested interest in the Iraqi political process, and it could play a far more destabilizing role. Therefore, the current policy will not reduce the Iranian threat to Iraq but rather increase it.
 An American conflict with Iran would also undermine regional stability, jeopardize the economic gains of the Persian Gulf emirates and inflame Muslim public opinion. Persistent clashes with the United States will radicalize the Iranian theocracy and, more important, the Iranian public. 
 Iran today sees regional stability in its interest. It abandoned the goal of exporting its revolution to its Persian Gulf neighbors at the end of 1980s and has since acted as a status-quo power. It seeks influence within the existing regional power structure. It improved its relations with its Persian Gulf neighbors throughout the 1990s, and in particular normalized relations with Saudi Arabia. Iran supported the stabilization of Afghanistan in 2001 and that of Iraq during the early phase of the occupation. Conflict will change the direction that Iranian foreign policy has been following, and this will be a change for the worse and for the more confrontational. 
 A judicious engagement policy will require patience and must begin with a fundamental shift in the style and content of American diplomacy. The breakthrough in American-Chinese relations during the Nixon administration followed such a course. Beijing responded favorably to engagement only after two years of unilateral American gestures. As part of a similar effort toward Iran, the Unites States should try to create a more suitable environment for diplomacy by taking actions that gradually breach the walls of mistrust. 
 Washington can begin by ending its provocative naval deployments in the Persian Gulf, easing its efforts to get European and Asian banks to divest from Iran and inviting Iranian representatives to all regional and international conferences dealing with the Middle East. Along this path, the language of American diplomacy would also have to alter. The administration cannot propose negotiations while castigating Iran as part of an ''axis of evil'' or the ''central banker of terrorism'' and forming a regional alliance to roll back Iranian influence. 
 Once a more suitable environment has been created, the United States should propose dialogue without conditions with the aim of normalizing relations. For too long, proposed talks with Iran have focused on areas of American concern: nuclear proliferation and Iraq. A more comprehensive platform would involve the totality of disagreements between the two countries and also address Iran's regional interests. 
 On the nuclear issue, Iran would have to accede to a rigorous inspection regime to make certain that its nuclear material would not be diverted for military purposes. In the meantime, more cooperative relations between the two parties could benefit stability in Iraq, where both Tehran and Washington support the same Shiite-led government. 
 After 28 years of sanctions and containment, it is time to accept that pressure has not tempered Iran's behavior. The announced release of the British captives shows that the Islamic Republic is still willing to mitigate its ideology with pragmatism. A policy of patient engagement will change the context, and that may lead Iran to see relations with America to be in its own interest. Only then will Tehran chart a new course at home and abroad.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); NAVIES (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (75%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (74%); RELIGION (73%); TERRORISM (60%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%)

PERSON: ALI LARIJANI (55%) Vali (Prof) Nasr; Ray Takeyh

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (78%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) INDIAN OCEAN (91%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); IRAQ (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); GULF STATES (90%); IRAN (79%); LEBANON (79%) Iran; Great Britain; Iraq; Iran

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2007



103 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: Tech-Driven Metro Areas Renew Their Population Gains

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
Several metropolitan areas that either lost population or experienced a decline in its growth when the high-tech bubble burst appear to have recovered in the year ended last July 1, new census figures for the nation's metro areas show. But Rust Belt and many coastal areas continue to hemorrhage people.
 ''It's a tale of two kinds of cities,'' said William H. Frey, a demographer with the Brookings Institution. ''Growing and 'new economy' metros that have rebounded from early-decade woes, and large coastal and Rust Belt metros where high housing costs or diminishing employment prospects propel continued out-migration.'' 
''Among the former,'' Dr. Frey said, ''are a series of high-tech-driven centers like Austin, San Francisco, San Jose, Seattle, Salt Lake City, Boise, Raleigh and Atlanta, where growth slowdowns were reversed or modest growth has accelerated.''
 Metropolitan Seattle, for instance, which grew by fewer than 20,000 residents from 2002 to 2003, gained more than 55,000 from 2005 to 2006, reaching 3.3 million. In Raleigh, the increase was 25,000 from 2002 to 2003 but more than 42,000 in the year ended July, for a total of almost one million. Metropolitan San Jose, which recorded a population loss from 2001 to 2002, grew by 25,000 in the latest period, to 1.8 million.
 The South and the West accounted for nearly all the metro areas with the fastest-growing populations. Houston gained the most people, nearly 187,000, or 3.5 percent. Phoenix, which grew by 160,000, gained the most from domestic migration, with 96,000 newcomers. The metro area of St. George, Utah, near the Arizona border, recorded the highest rate of growth, 6 percent, or 7,100 people.
 Metropolitan Atlanta swelled by 890,000 residents from 2000 to last July, the most of any metropolitan area in that period, for a total of 5.1 million. The population of the St. George area grew nearly 40 percent, to 126,000. 
 The latest analysis of changes in metropolitan areas confirmed the effect of Hurricane Katrina, which swept ashore in August 2005. Metropolitan New Orleans lost more people than any other metro area in the latest one-year survey, 289,000, or 22 percent. The storm's effect was also reflected in the gains in Houston, where the increase from domestic migration was just 8,700 in 2004-5 but 86,600 in 2005-6. Baton Rouge, La., gained 35,100, or nearly 5 percent, making its rate of growth the second-fastest among large metro areas.
 Metropolitan New Orleans's loss of 291,000 to domestic migration -- the number of people who left minus the number who moved there from other parts of the country -- was even greater than the declines in two much bigger metro areas, New York, which recorded a net loss of 268,000 in domestic migration, and Los Angeles, which lost 229,000.
 Over all, metropolitan New York barely registered a gain, although one outer exurb, Allentown, Pa., recorded among the highest growth rates, 1.3 percent, of any area in the Northeast or the Midwest, as affordable housing made it more appealing to commuters. 
 The District of Columbia's net decline of migrants, more than 45,000, placed it sixth in that category.
 ''In addition,'' Dr. Frey said, ''a series of Midwest, western Pennsylvania and upstate New York metros continue to bleed migrants, led by better employment prospects and amenities, to the South and West. Buffalo, Cleveland, Pittsburgh, Toledo, Dayton and Detroit show accelerating population declines.''
 He attributed the expansion of fast-growing areas like Provo, Utah, and Stockton, Calif., to ''struggling young couples, middle-aged empty nesters and retirees who put a premium on urban settings, but on a smaller scale.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (91%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); CITIES (90%); CENSUS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); POPULATION DECLINE (78%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); HURRICANES (72%); COASTAL AREAS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); HURRICANE KATRINA (65%); EMPLOYMENT (55%) Population; Population; Census

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%)

PERSON: Sam Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (93%); ST GEORGE, UT, USA (92%); BOISE, ID, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (91%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (87%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); UTAH, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (87%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Seattle (Wash); San Francisco (Calif); Raleigh (Nc); Atlanta (Ga); Austin (Tex); San Jose (Calif); Boise (Idaho); New York City; Los Angeles (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2007



104 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Our Crumbling Foundation

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
Fifty-nine years ago this week -- on April 3, 1948 -- President Truman signed the legislation establishing the Marshall Plan, which contributed so much to the rebuilding of postwar Europe. Now, more than half a century later, the U.S. can't even rebuild New Orleans.
 It doesn't seem able to build much of anything, really. According to the American Society of Civil Engineers, the U.S. infrastructure is in sad shape, and it would take more than a trillion and a half dollars over a five-year period to bring it back to a reasonably adequate condition. 
If there's a less sexy story floating around, I can't find it. It certainly can't compete with the Sanjaya Malakar saga, or with the claim by Keith Richards that he snorted his dad's ashes with ''a little bit of blow.'' 
 But, as we learned with New Orleans, there are consequences to neglecting the infrastructure. Just a little over a year ago, a dam in Hawaii gave way, unleashing a wave 70 feet high and 200 yards wide. It swept away virtually everything in its path, including cars, houses and trees. Seven people drowned.
 On the day after Christmas in Portland, Ore., a sinkhole opened up like something from a science fiction movie and swallowed a 25-ton sewer-repair truck. Authorities blamed the sinkhole on the collapse of aging underground pipes.
 Blackouts, school buildings in advanced states of disrepair, decrepit highway and railroad bridges -- the American infrastructure is growing increasingly old and obsolete. In addition to being an invitation to tragedy, this is a problem that is putting Americans at a disadvantage in the ever more competitive global economy.
 Felix Rohatyn, the investment banker who helped save New York City from bankruptcy in the 1970s, has been prominent among those trying to sound the infrastructure alarm. Along with former Senator Warren Rudman, he has been criticizing the government's unwillingness to invest adequately in public transportation systems, water projects, dams, schools, the electrical grid, and so on.
 He recently told a House committee that Congress should begin a major effort to rebuild the American infrastructure ''before it is too late.''
 ''Since the beginning of the republic,'' he said, ''transportation, infrastructure and education have played a central role in advancing the American economy, whether it was the canals in upstate New York, or the railroads that linked our heartland to our industrial centers; whether it was the opening of education to average Americans by land grant colleges and the G.I. bill, making education basic to American life; or whether it was the interstate highway system that ultimately connected all regions of the nation.
 ''This did not happen by chance, but was the result of major investments financed by the federal and state governments over the last century and a half. We need to make similar investments now.''
 Politics and ideology are the main reasons that government has turned away from public investment over the past several years. Zealots marching under the banner of small government have been remarkably effective in thwarting efforts to raise taxes or borrow substantial sums for the kind of public investment that has always been essential to a dynamic economy.
 That this is counterproductive in a post-20th-century world should be as obvious as the sun rising in the morning. There is a reason why countries like China and India are racing like mad to develop their infrastructure and educational capacity.
 ''A modern economy needs a modern platform, and that's the infrastructure,'' Mr. Rohatyn said in an interview. ''It has been shown that the productivity of an economy is related to the quality of its infrastructure. For example, if you don't have enough schools to teach your kids, or your kids are taught in schools that have holes in the ceilings, that are dilapidated, they're not going to be as educated and as competitive in a world economy as they need to be.''
 Mr. Rohatyn and Mr. Rudman are co-chairmen of the Commission on Public Infrastructure at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. They believe that failing to move quickly to address the nation's infrastructure needs -- through the establishment of a national trust fund, for example, or a federal capital budget -- could lead to long-term disaster.
 But words like trust fund and long-term and infrastructure find it very difficult to elbow their way into the nation's consciousness. We may have to wait for another New Orleans before beginning to take this seriously. David Brooks is on vacation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INFRASTRUCTURE (76%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (76%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (76%); ENGINEERING (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (71%); POWER FAILURES (69%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); CHRISTMAS (66%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (64%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (63%); SCIENCE FICTION & FANTASY FILMS (50%) United States Economy; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL PLAN (84%); AMERICAN SOCIETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERS (57%)

PERSON: KEITH RICHARDS (53%) Bob Herbert

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2007



105 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:
TALKS ON A CHRYSLER DEAL DaimlerChrysler confirmed for the first time that it was in talks with a number of bidders about a deal for its troubled Chrysler Group. The announcement, at the company's annual meeting in Berlin, seemed to be aimed at placating restive shareholders. [Page A1.] FORD STICKING WITH THE PLAN The Ford Motor Company's chief executive, Alan R. Mulally, insisting that he saw no need for deeper cuts beyond those called for by its recovery plan, dismissed speculation by some analysts that Ford would require a third round of cuts on top of the two already announced. [C1.] GET HEALTHY AT WAL-MART Wal-Mart has quietly introduced an ambitious program that seeks to turn its 1.3 million workers into models for its 200 million customers on issues ranging from personal health to the environment. 
[C1.] SHELL HOPES TO RESUME IN NIGERIA Royal Dutch Shell says that it expects to resume full oil operations in Nigeria within six months, a year after being forced to shut operations because of attacks from a rebel group. ''We see this year as a year when we start clawing back our production,'' said Basil E. Omiyi, above, Shell's managing director for Nigeria. ''I don't see anything standing in our way of restarting our production.'' [C1.] UNION TRUST TAKEN TO COURT A lawsuit filed in federal court contends that a retirement plan offered by a federation of New York teachers unions accepted millions of dollars from an investment firm in exchange for endorsing the firm's products. [C1.] GAZPROM IN DEAL FOR YUKOS ASSETS Two Italian energy companies won an auction for assets of the bankrupt Yukos oil company, then promptly announced they would sell most of the assets to the state-owned Russian gas giant Gazprom. [C3.] LONE STAR'S EXIT STRATEGY? Lone Star Funds, the private equity firm embroiled in a dispute with South Korean prosecutors, said that it would divest itself of two of its Korean holdings, fueling speculation that it would exit the country. [C12.]UNIVERSITIES AND LOAN COMPANIES The directors of financial aid offices at Columbia University, the University of Texas at Austin and the University of Southern California profited from the sale of shares they held in a student loan company, which each of the universities recommends to student borrowers, according to an investigation by Andrew M. Cuomo, New York attorney general. [A1.] YOUTUBE BLOCKED IN THAILAND Thailand's government blocked access to YouTube because of a video clip that denigrated the country's monarch. Google refused to remove the clip. [C12.] A BONUS (ONLINE) ISSUE The newsmagazine The Week will publish an extra issue online, rather than in its regular printed format. The issue will focus on the environment -- hence the decision to spare trees. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C4.] AN ALL-GREEN TV CHANNEL Discovery Communications, the cable channel operator, plans to start a 24-hour channel focused on eco-friendly living, as part of a push into the rising environmental movement. [C3.] SEEKING OPPORTUNITY IN ALASKA For women entrepreneurs, starting and sustaining a business in Alaska can pose special challenges. Small Business. [C11.] MARKETS EDGE HIGHER Stocks advanced slightly, as oil prices dropped and economic data offered little incentive to buyers. [C14.] HINTS OF A WEAKENING ECONOMY Growth in the service sector fell to a four-year low last month while the job market showed only modest improvement, according to reports that reinforced views of a weakening economy. [C3.] A GOOD QUARTER FOR BEST BUY The Best Buy Company, the nation's biggest consumer electronics chain, reported an increase of 18.5 percent in its quarterly profit. Its rival, Circuit City Stores, swung to a loss of $12.2 million, as it continued to struggle with charges related in part to store closings. [C12.] NOT YOUR NORMAL W-2 Google paid its top executive, Eric E. Schmidt, a salary of $1 and a holiday bonus of $1,723 in 2006, according to a regulatory filing. But Mr. Schmidt's personal security cost shareholders $532,755, representing the bulk of his compensation. [C3.] GOOD MORNING. YOU'RE REPLACED. CNN, disappointed with ratings for its news program ''American Morning,'' is replacing the anchor team of Soledad O'Brien and Miles O'Brien and installing Kieran Chetry and the former CBS News correspondent John Roberts. [E10.] ONLINEPAY FOR PERFORMANCE? At many companies, changes in chief executives' pay last year roughly corresponded with changes in their shareholders' total return. But there were exceptions, most of them in favor of the chief executives. A graphic and other reports on executive pay is in a special section at nytimes.com/business. WEEKEND BUSINESS REPORT In a weekly podcast, reporters and editors from The Times's Sunday Business section offer perspective on the week in business and beyond. Information on subscribing is at nytimes.com/business.UNCERTAINTIES IN A GUIDELINE The American Cancer Society has recommended that all women at high risk for breast cancer should undergo magnetic resonance imaging, but the issue is a complex one. A report is at nytimes.com/health.

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks the daily closing price of Best Buy shares for the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (85%); STUDENT LOANS (84%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (84%); AUCTIONS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); LITIGATION (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); TEACHER UNIONS (65%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (94%); FORD MOTOR CO (93%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (83%); OAO NK YUKOS (81%); OAO GAZPROM (67%); LONE STAR FUNDS (64%); GOOGLE INC (50%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); RDSA (LSE) (83%); RDSA (AMS) (83%); RDS.B (NYSE) (83%); RDS.A (NYSE) (83%); OGZD (LSE) (67%); GAZP (RTS) (67%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (83%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (83%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (67%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (67%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (67%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (67%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (67%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (64%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (64%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

PERSON: ALAN MULALLY (56%); ANDREW CUOMO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) NIGERIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); THAILAND (65%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2007



106 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 292 words

HEADLINE: Growth in the Service Sector Slowed in March

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Growth in the service sector fell to a four-year low last month while the job market showed only modest improvement, according to reports yesterday that reinforced views of a weakening economy. 
 The Institute for Supply Management said its nonmanufacturing index slid to 52.4 in March, down from 54.3 in February, confounding expectations for a rise. Despite the weakness, the institute's inflation gauge rose.
The report coincided with unexpectedly weak factory orders data for February, released by the Commerce Department.
 ''It's looking pretty dark,'' said Richard J. DeKaser, chief economist at National City Corporation in Cleveland, after the institute's release. ''On the whole, it speaks to the sluggish pace that the economy is moving at in recent quarters.''
 The services reading from the institute came two days after it reported that manufacturing growth slowed in March while price pressures increased.
 The weakness in the institute's March manufacturing report was also reinforced by yesterday's factory orders data for February. New orders at factories rose 1 percent in February, below expectations for a rise of 1.8 percent.
 After revisions, January's fall in factory orders worsened to 5.7 percent, which was the biggest decline in more than six years. Orders for durable goods, items meant to last three years or more, were revised lower to a 1.7 percent gain in February from an initial rise of 2.5 percent reported last week.
 There was some positive economic news, however. Planned job layoffs fell 42 percent, to an eight-month low in March from February, though the outlook remained bleak in sectors related to the troubled housing market, a report by the global outplacement consultant Challenger, Gray & Christmas Inc. showed.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gabriela Rodriquez working at a Joseph Abboud garment manufacturing plant in New Bedford, Mass. Factory orders for February were unexpectedly weak, according to the Commerce Department. (Photo by Michael Dwyer/Associated Press)Chart: ''Factory Orders''Manufacturers' total new orders, seasonally adjusted.Feb.: +1.0%Jan.: -5.7Dec.: +2.6Graph tracks manufacturers' total new orders, seasonally adjusted, since 2005.(Source by Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); FACTORY ORDERS (92%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); NEW ORDERS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (76%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); DURABLE GOODS (73%); APPAREL MFG (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); CHRISTMAS (68%) United States Economy; Factories and Industrial Plants; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (71%); NATIONAL CITY CORP (71%); CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (65%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%) Institute for Supply Management; Commerce Department; Challenger Gray & Christmas 

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (71%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (71%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW BEDFORD, MA, USA (59%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2007



107 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: Flying Toward Competitive Skies

 BODY:
International air travel is an example of an industry where arcane, out-of-date rules have held back growth and investment for too long. The deal between the European Union and the United States to modernize and rationalize the governance of the $18 billion trans-Atlantic aviation market is a welcome one for consumers. 
 But it would have been even better if the Bush administration and Congress could have gone further and opened up the American market to more competition, and the superior service and lower prices that come with it. We hope that politicians will embrace the free-market principles they so frequently tout in the next round of negotiations, and not let protectionist and nationalist sentiments harm consumer choice.
Before the so-called open skies pact, the United States had separate agreements with individual European countries, or in some cases, none at all. As a result, a German airline like Lufthansa could not operate flights from Paris to New York. In the new environment, that kind of intra-European competition will soon be possible -- and should lead to vigorous new entrants in once-sheltered markets.
 It is the consumer, cheaper ticket in hand, who benefits. The European Union transport commissioner says he expects that over the next five years the number of passengers flying between Europe and the United States will grow to 75 million annually -- an increase of 26 million. Even a fraction of that would be an enormous gain in business.
 But while Americans like to think of Europeans as the stodgy ones with ossified markets, the United States did not go nearly as far in pulling down artificial barriers to competition as Europe did. American airlines will be allowed to operate flights between E.U. cities, say from London to Amsterdam, but European airlines will still be prohibited from flying, say, from Boston to Chicago. And the United States still limits a foreign company to owning 25 percent of voting shares in an airline operating here.
 Embedded in these rules is a pessimistic assumption that American airlines would suffer in a competition with foreign ones. The United States has been at the forefront of aviation since the Wright Brothers flew at Kitty Hawk. On the manufacturing side, Boeing has enjoyed considerable success against its European rival Airbus. The industry should go back to thinking like the free-marketeers this country has always encouraged and valued.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (79%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); AVIATION TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (68%) Airlines and Airplanes; Editorials; Treaties

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (58%); AIRBUS SAS (56%); BOEING CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%)

TICKER: LHA (FRA) (58%); BOE (LSE) (52%); BAB (BRU) (52%); BA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (56%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (73%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); NETHERLANDS (78%) European Union

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2007



108 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: IRAN SETS FREE 15 BRITONS SEIZED AT SEA IN MARCH

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL; Michael Slackman contributed reporting from Cairo, and Edward Wong from Baghdad.

DATELINE: LONDON, April 4 

 BODY:
Iran on Thursday morning released the 15 British sailors and marines it seized at sea nearly two weeks ago, resolving a diplomatic impasse with what Iran's president called a ''gift'' to the British people. 
 In announcing his intentions on Wednesday, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, said that although Iran had every right to try the Britons on charges of trespassing in Iranian territorial waters, it would instead forgive them and allow them to go home.
The captives met with the British ambassador to Iran late Wednesday night, the Foreign Office said. But a spokesman said they were still in Iranian custody and that their travel arrangements were still being made.
 About 7 a.m. Thursday in Tehran (4:30 a.m. in London), the Britons arrived at the airport for an 8 a.m. commercial flight to London, Reuters said. Shortly before 8:30, Iran Radio reported the plane had left. 
 On Wednesday, Iranian state television showed the president smiling, chatting and shaking the hands of some of the captives. Dressed in ill-fitting clothes apparently issued by their captors, the Britons waited in line to meet the president, looking almost as if they were a visiting sports team. ''We are grateful for your forgiveness,'' one said to Mr. Ahmadinejad, seemingly off the cuff.
 News of the planned release, after days of behind-the-scenes diplomatic maneuvering, brought a peaceful, almost anticlimactic end to a crisis that began on March 23 when the Britons were seized in the disputed waters of the Shatt al-Arab waterway, just north of the Persian Gulf. 
 In London, Prime Minister Tony Blair suggested that the resolution was a vindication of Britain's two-pronged strategy of conciliation laced with toughness. 
 ''Throughout, we have taken a measured approach, firm but calm, not negotiating but not confronting either,'' Mr. Blair said. Britain bore no ill will toward the Iranian people, he told reporters, and respected Iran's ''proud and dignified history.''
 Officials denied that concessions were made for the Britons' release. But on Tuesday, an Iranian diplomat held by Iraqi forces for eight weeks was released, and on Wednesday, American officials said they were reviewing an informal request from the Iranian government for an envoy to visit five Iranians imprisoned after an American raid in northern Iraq in January. [Page A8.]
 Neither Iran nor Britain admitted to backing down. Iran has argued throughout that the Britons strayed into its territorial waters; Britain has said that the group -- seven marines and eight sailors, including one woman -- was conducting a routine, United Nations-sanctioned operation in Iraqi waters. 
 Throughout the crisis, Iran vacillated between pugilistic statements and conciliatory ones in a seeming reflection of internal power struggles. British officials said that when Ali Larijani, secretary of Iran's Supreme National Security Council, went on British television on Monday and intimated that Iran was looking for a diplomatic solution, the balance seemed to have tipped.
 ''We got the sense that the Iranians were sort of taking stock during the course of Monday and Tuesday,'' a government official said, speaking on condition that his name not be used, according to British government policy. 
 A flurry of activity on Tuesday culminated in a breakthrough phone call Tuesday night between Mr. Larijani and Sir Nigel Sheinwald, Mr. Blair's top foreign policy adviser, the official said. The Iranians also appeared to react positively to comments Tuesday night by Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett in which she ruled out a military solution. 
 In the end, both countries achieved what they wanted, up to a point. Britain got the promise of its crew back unharmed and, at least to outward appearances, was not forced to make the apology that Iran had originally demanded. Instead, it agreed only to disagree with Iran about exactly what had happened. 
 For its part, Iran had the chance to look magnanimous and found a graceful way to avoid an escalation. 
 ''I think Iran was becoming increasingly aware that what they had done was a mistake and that the longer they held these people, the more the whole thing began to resemble the ugly hostage crisis of 1979,'' Wayne White, former deputy director of the State Department's Middle East intelligence office, said in a telephone interview. 
 ''In addition, in the context of the ongoing nuclear impasse,'' Mr. White said, ''the last thing Iran needed was to become involved in yet another affair that furthered the impression -- particularly in the West but also in some regional capitals -- that Iran was dangerous and could be dangerously irresponsible in its behavior.'' 
 Almost from the start, Iran seemed unsure of how to handle the captives. It showed them on television along with poignant handwritten letters from the only woman in the group, Leading Seaman Faye Turney, saying she wanted to go home and confessing, possibly under duress, that the Britons had been trespassing. One Iranian official said Seaman Turney would be released; another said she would not.
 For the first few days, it appeared that there was little movement on either side. But in addition to seeking the support of the United Nations Security Council and the European Union, Britain also reached out to Turkey and to many of Iran's neighbors, the government official said, and things began to improve last weekend with an exchange of notes between the sides. 
 Still, the British government was apparently taken by surprise Wednesday by Mr. Ahmadinejad's announcement, which came in the midst of a long, elaborate and rambling news conference. There was a disapproving lecture about American and British foreign policy, a discussion of the Security Council (equally disapproving) and a burst of lavish praise -- and a medal -- for the members of the Revolutionary Guards who seized the Britons in the first place. Then, almost as an afterthought, came the announcement. 
 Even in Tehran, there were signs that the detention had been unpopular and a blow to the influence of Mr. Ahmadinejad, who is vying against the country's pragmatists for more influence over Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran's supreme leader. 
 ''Iranian leaders never imagined the consequences when they seized the sailors off Iranian or Iraqi waters,'' said Mehrdad Serjooie, a political analyst at the Center for Strategic Research, part of a group run by Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, a former president and a challenger to Mr. Ahmadinejad.
 ''The televised confessions of the sailors provoked sympathy from the international public opinion, and such conditions were pushing Iran further into isolation,'' Mr. Serjooie said in an interview. 
 Hossein Rezamanesh, an Iranian shopkeeper, said that the British detainees had been innocent victims of ''a political game'' in which the British and the Iranian governments were equally at fault. 
 ''They gave an official description of this incident, but they were settling their scores on other affairs,'' Mr. Rezamanesh said in an interview, referring to the two governments. ''Moreover, international pressure increased on Iran and the Iranians were afraid of horrible consequences. Thank God, our people were spared.''
 In London, Meir Javedanfar, co-author of ''The Nuclear Sphinx of Tehran: Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and the State of Iran,'' said that the resolution was a victory of sorts for the country's pragmatists, chief among them Mr. Larijani. 
 ''It just goes to show that the Iranian regime is prioritizing its needs,and that the priority is a nuclear program and trying to have an economic program and to avoid further sanctions,'' Mr. Javedanfar said in an interview. ''This has not been very helpful in international circles, where Iran is already isolated.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran talked with Leading Seaman Faye Turney, left, one of the British captives, in Tehran yesterday. (Photo by European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. A8)
 The British sailors and marines in Tehran yesterday after the president of Iran said they would be freed as a ''gift'' to the people of Britain. (Photo by Morteza Nikoubazi/Reuters)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); AIRPORTS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (63%); CRIMINAL TRESPASS (56%); SPORTS (51%); SPORTS & RECREATION (51%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Foreign Service

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (90%); TONY BLAIR (79%); ALI LARIJANI (58%) Sarah Lyall; Mahmoud (Pres) Ahmadinejad; Tony (Prime Min) Blair

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) INDIAN OCEAN (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN (90%); GULF STATES (74%) Iran; Great Britain; Iraq; Iran

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2007



109 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Budget Gains For Fish And Farms, Not Judges

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER; David Staba contributed reporting.

DATELINE: ALBANY, April 4 

 BODY:
New York State is getting its first fish pathologist. A million dollars is going to jump-start the effort to provide cellphone service along a major highway in the Adirondacks where a Brooklyn man died, unable to get a signal. And the state's dairy farmers will get $30 million to help them recover from a bad year.
 There are eight million stories buried in Gov. Eliot Spitzer's first state budget, which was passed last weekend as the governor squared off with Republicans in the State Senate over education aid to suburban districts and with the health care workers' union and a hospital association over his plans to reduce Medicaid spending. 
 The health care battle was especially fierce, with multimillion-dollar ad campaigns on both sides. Mr. Spitzer used half a million dollars of his own money, in addition to campaign funds, on his television ads, an aide said. 
 While Senate Republicans have been vociferously claiming victory, the governor toured the state proclaiming that he was the winner of his first budget battle. During a stop in Chili, a suburb of Rochester, on Wednesday, the governor was asked about Senator Joseph L. Bruno's recent comments suggesting that he was the big winner. 
 ''The only person I know who should be gloating is the taxpayer in the state of New York, because I won on every issue,'' Mr. Spitzer said. ''If he's gloating, he misunderstands what happened. Health care reform, education reform, property tax reform, fiscal discipline -- these are the issues I fought for, and these are the issues I won.''
 There were other issues that played out mostly below the radar. Here are just a few of them:
 The fish pathologist -- who is expected to help the state deal with invasive species, and with diseases killing off fish in the Great Lakes -- is one of 109 positions being added to the Department of Environmental Conservation, whose staff was reduced by the Pataki administration. The department is getting more lawyers for its enforcement division, more engineers, chemists and biologists -- and a new office of climate change. That office will have up to a dozen workers overseeing the state's efforts to limit pollution from power plants and cars, and to find other ways for the state to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. Environmentalists cheered the additions.
 And the Department of Environmental Conservation finally has a new commissioner. The confirmation of Alexander B. Grannis, a former Democratic assemblyman from Manhattan, was held up by Republicans in the State Senate for months -- so long that his supporters took to brandishing signs that said, ''Free Pete,'' referring to him by his nickname. Over the weekend, as a budget agreement came together, the Senate finally voted to confirm him.
 The budget also includes $1 million that could be used to help the state get cellphone towers along a stretch of Interstate 87 known as the Northway that goes through the Adirondacks. Attempts to extend cellphone service there have fizzled, as environmentalists have won restrictions on what kind of towers can be built, and cellphone companies have expressed concerns about the profitability of providing service there. 
 The debate over service was renewed earlier this year when a man froze to death after his car veered off the road and his wife was unable to get a cellphone signal to call 911. 
 State Senator Elizabeth Little, a Republican who represents the area, said in a statement: ''The goal is to provide service that is fully funded by a cellphone carrier, not requiring support from the state. But given the existing state policy that restricts the height of cellphone towers in the Adirondacks, a state subsidy may be appropriate.'' 
 The $30 million for the state's dairy farmers is supposed to help them recover from economic conditions last year, when they found themselves squeezed by price controls that kept milk prices low as feed and fuel costs rose quickly.
 ''There was a huge number of farmers who were borrowing money every month to meet their needs,'' said Assemblyman William Magee, a Democrat from the central part of the state, who pushed for the aid along with Senator Cathy Young, a Republican. 
 On Sunday, as the final budget bills were passed, Mr. Magee wore his success in winning the farm subsidy around his neck, in the form of a necktie that showed cows drinking beer. ''They're celebrating,'' he said.
 Some stories are notable not for what happened, but for what did not happen. Judges across the state are furious that they did not get pay raises they were seeking. Lawmakers said they were unlikely to raise the pay for judges without raising their own pay, and so far there has been no deal for a legislative pay raise. So the judges must wait.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 5, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article on April 5 about details of Gov. Eliot Spitzer's first New York State budget included erroneous information from a Spitzer aide about the position of fish pathologist for the Department of Environmental Conservation. (The error first appeared on Feb. 5 in the Empire Zone column, about Mr. Spitzer's first month in office.) The budget adds one position to those that already exist; the fish pathologist to be hired will not in fact be the state's first.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PATHOLOGY (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (85%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (75%); EDUCATION REFORM (75%); SUBURBS (75%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (75%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (75%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (75%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); DAIRY FARMING (72%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (70%); HOSPITALS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (69%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (69%); TAX REFORM (68%); CLIMATE CHANGE (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); TAX LAW (65%); PROPERTY TAX (65%); BIOLOGY (62%); EMISSIONS (61%); GREENHOUSE GASES (60%) 

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (79%) Michael Cooper; Eliot (Gov) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (90%); GREAT LAKES (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2007



110 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: Discovery to Start Channel Focusing on Green Movement

BYLINE: By RICHARD SIKLOS

 BODY:
Discovery Communications, the cable channel operator, plans to start a 24-hour channel focused on eco-friendly living, as part of a push into the rising environmental movement. 
 The company, based in Silver Spring, Md., will next year rebrand its Discovery Home Channel with a name that has not been selected but will reflect its position as the centerpiece of an initiative called PlanetGreen.
 In addition to the cable channel, which will be carried initially in 50 million homes, other Discovery outlets including its flagship Discovery Channel will carry documentaries and other programming highlighting the new green lifestyle channel, said the chief executive, David M. Zaslav. 
 The first such project is ''Ten Ways to Save the Planet,'' and is scheduled to be shown in the second half of next year.
 Additionally, the company said the initiative, which is to be announced today at the company's presentation in Manhattan, will feature Internet components. Discovery will also look at extending the green channel concept into the 170 counties where it has channels. 
 PlanetGreen is one of the biggest efforts that a media company has made to tap into the growing movement that has spawned everything from green cars, food and architecture to green weddings and talk of a green Olympics. 
 Magazines like Vanity Fair, Domino, Outside and Fortune have recently published green issues, and of course, the Oscar-winning documentary on global warming, ''An Inconvenient Truth,'' which featured Al Gore, is at the vanguard. 
 In addition to satisfying the interests of viewers, Mr. Zaslav said that advertisers now have distinct green budgets in the same way that they have online budgets.
 Mr. Zaslav said that the Discovery Channel and its offspring, which includes the Animal Planet and the Learning Channel, have always championed environmental causes like wildlife preservation. However, the new cable channel would specifically promote an environmentally friendly lifestyle. 
 He noted that the channel would be in more homes -- 50 million -- than the media baron Rupert Murdoch's anticipated business news channel, which is expected to start later this year. 
 ''To be able to rebrand an existing channel and launch with over 50 million homes in 2008 is a big statement to where the world is today,'' Mr. Zaslav said in an interview. ''Five years ago, people would have said 'who are those lefties talking about green?' '' 
 He added: ''Today, green means responsible.'' 
 Mr. Zaslav, who has shaken up the executive ranks of Discovery since becoming its president and chief executive in November, said a priority was to create a companywide green initiative that he viewed as a natural progression of the cable operator's core business in documentaries and other nonfiction programming. 
 As part of PlanetGreen, the company's headquarters is expected to become carbon neutral.
 Also, Discovery plans to hold a PlanetGreen Innovation Conference gathering business leaders, scientists and conservation experts. 
 For the last two weeks, the main Discovery Channel has gained acclaim and viewers for a documentary series, ''Planet Earth,'' which it produced with the British Broadcasting Corporation and began showing two Sundays ago. 
 Asked if the rebranding of Discovery Home suggested that some of the company's other 14 domestic channels might also be rebranded, Mr. Zaslav said he was looking closely at the portfolio. 
 Where Discovery Home was concerned, he said he wanted to differentiate the channel by featuring topics like home improvement, cooking and gardening. The channel's current lineup includes shows with titles like ''Cookin' in Brooklyn,'' ''Toolbelt Diva'' and ''Garden Police.'' 
 ''The channel is doing well economically,'' Mr. Zaslav said, ''but it's not serving this higher purpose.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTALISM (92%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); GREEN MARKET (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); BRANDING (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (68%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (63%) Television; Environment; Names, Organizational; Documentary Films and Programs; Television

COMPANY: DISCOVERY COMMUNICATIONS INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Discovery Channel

TICKER: DISCA (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%)

PERSON: DAVID M ZASLAV (89%); AL GORE (57%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (54%) David M Zaslav; Richard Siklos

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MARYLAND, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2007



111 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL A3-10Iran Sets Free 15 Captured BritonsIran released 15 British sailors and marines it seized at sea nearly two weeks ago, resolving a diplomatic impasse with what Iran's president called a ''gift'' to the British people. A1 American officials are reviewing a request from the Iranian government for an envoy to visit five Iranians imprisoned since an American raid in Iraq in January, a military spokesman said. A8Israel Objects to U.S. Arms DealA major arms-sale package that the Bush administration is planning to offer Saudi Arabia and other Persian Gulf allies to deter Iran has been delayed because of objections from Israel. Israel says that the weaponry would erode its military advantage in the region, according to senior United States officials. 
 A1 U.N. Issuing Climate ReportThe latest United Nations assessment of the role of humans in global warming has found with ''high confidence'' that greenhouse gas emissions are at least partly responsible for a host of changes already under way. A6 Pelosi Meets With Syria LeaderNancy Pelosi, the speaker of the House, said she had frank words with President Bashar al-Assad and other Syrian officials in Damascus, pressing the president over Syria's support for militant groups and insisting that his government block militants seeking to cross into Iraq. A3 Clashes Continue in GazaIsraeli soldiers shot dead a Palestinian who was trying to plant explosives in the Gaza Strip, Palestinian and Israeli officials said. A3 NATIONAL A12-17 Inquiry on Loan Companies Reveals New InformationOfficials at three universities profited from the sale of shares held in a student loan company, an expanding investigation into the relationships between student loan companies and universities has found. A1 Obama Raises $25 MillionSenator Barack Obama's presidential campaign announced raising $25 million in the first three months of the year, settling the matter of whether he could stand toe to toe with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, at least in raising money. A15 Bush's Picks Anger DemocratsPresident Bush used the Congressional recess to push through his choice to be ambassador to Belgium and to fill two domestic policy positions -- provoking Democratic ire with all three appointments. A15 Arrests in Immigration RaidImmigration agents arrested two managers and 60 other employees of an industrial cleaning company on immigration violations and charges of identity theft in a raid at a central Illinois meatpacking plant. A12 Metro Areas Regain PopulationSeveral metropolitan areas that lost population or saw growth fall off when the high-tech bubble burst appear to have recovered in the year that ended July 1, new census figures show, but many coastal areas continued to hemorrhage people. A14 Study Finds Flaws in ScreeningA highly promoted and widely used computerized system for examining mammograms known as computer-aided detection, or CAD, is leading to less accuracy, not more, researchers are reporting. A14 NEW YORK/REGION B1-6City Plans to Fight AIDS By Promoting CircumcisionNew York City's Department of Health and Mental Hygiene is planning a campaign to encourage men at high risk of AIDS to get circumcised in light of the World Health Organization's endorsement of the procedure as an effective way to prevent the disease. B1 New Jersey Pension AuditGov. Jon S. Corzine of New Jersey said he would ask independent auditors to examine state financial records to determine how severely the pension fund for state and local workers has been jeopardized by underfunding. B3 Racial Imbalance in SchoolsThe overwhelmingly white and wealthy town of Greenwich, Conn., is beginning to confront the racial imbalance in its well-groomed neighborhood schools head-on for the first time, more than 50 years after the landmark desegregation ruling in Brown v. Board of Education. B1OBITUARIES B7Eddie RobinsonThe football coach at Grambling State University who helped bring racial awareness to a segregated Southern society, he was 88. B7 ARTS E1-12 Village Claims Etruscan ChariotA mountain village in Italy is caught up in a tug of war with the Metropolitan Museum of Art over the 2,600-year-old Etruscan chariot that is a highlight of the museum's new Greek and Roman galleries. E1BUSINESS DAY C1-14 Talks to Sell ChryslerDaimlerChrysler confirmed that it was in negotiations about a deal for the troubled American unit. A1 Business Digest C2 EDITORIAL A18-19Editorials: Running for dollars; flying toward competitive skies; the consequences of corn; not an Orange Revolution.Column: Bob Herbert.Bridge E6TV Listings E11Crossword E6Weather B8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); STUDENT LOANS (86%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (86%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); IMMIGRATION (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); COASTAL AREAS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); EMISSIONS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); GLOBAL WARMING (68%); GREENHOUSE GASES (68%); ARRESTS (64%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (63%); FOOD INDUSTRY (63%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (62%); CENSUS (62%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (60%); CITY LIFE (60%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (60%); BREAST CANCER SCREENING (60%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (50%); IDENTITY THEFT (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (94%); SYRIA (93%); IRAQ (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); GULF STATES (58%); BELGIUM (52%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2007



112 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 140 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Claims Rise by 11,000

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 5 

 BODY:
New jobless claims rose by 11,000 last week, more than was forecast, but analysts said the labor market remained on solid ground. 
 Initial filings for state unemployment insurance aid for the week ended March 31 increased to a seasonally adjusted 321,000, from an upwardly revised 310,000 the previous week, the Labor Department said Thursday.
 ''Jobless claims are still running at a relatively low level, and are not what we'd expect to see in a recession, rather in a healthy economy,'' said Gary Thayer, chief economist with A. G. Edwards & Sons in St. Louis. ''If we were in a recession, we'd be up 400,000, not 300,000.'' 
 A four-week moving average of claims, which smooths out weekly volatility to provide a better sense of underlying job-market trends, fell to 315,750 in the week ended March 31, from 317,250 in the previous week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); TRENDS (88%) Labor; Unemployment Insurance

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2007



113 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1561 words

HEADLINE: Piers of California: At Sea Without a Sail

BYLINE: By HENRY SHUKMAN

 BODY:
A PIER is a folly, a highway to nowhere. Whether lined with fishermen or filled with the cries and clattering of a roller coaster, whether thick with the aromas of hot dogs and fries or freshly gutted fish, they are there for nothing but the pleasure of humanity. 
 They didn't all begin that way. Piers are not quays or wharves, but many originally were. Most piers in Southern California started life as wharves where steamers could tie up, before the coastal shipping lines were superseded by railroads and highways.
 Gold in the 1850s, black gold from the 1890s, the silver screen since the 1910s -- there has always been a glistening dream to lure people to California, but perhaps none so powerful as the promise of a long pleasure shore, where work is play and enterprise a spiritual adventure. 
 The great amusement piers, including Santa Monica, Ocean Park, Venice, Long Beach -- came along in the early 20th century, and some no longer exist. But whether they began life for industry or amusement, just about all Southern California's piers sooner or later turned into pleasure decks, the special home of that most leisurely of pursuits, fishing. The recently restored and reopened Malibu Pier, once the dilapidated bohemian landmark of perhaps the first committed surfing scene in the mainland United States, was originally built in 1905 as a freight point for Malibu tiles and other goods from the Rancho Topanga Malibu Sequit, a 13,000-acre holding that dated from the days of Spanish control. Today, the pier is the refuge of fishermen.
 The history of the piers is tied not only to shipping but also to the arrival of the Big Red Car. Newport, Balboa, Huntington and several other piers were erected to coincide with the coming of Henry Huntington's trolley line from Los Angeles. Some, like Huntington Pier itself, seem to represent a triumph of human will over nature. The area of Huntington Beach around Huntington Pier, a fairly bleak spot between swampland filled with rocking oil derricks and the ocean, can look a little forbidding on a gray winter day. Yet even on a day like that there's a scene there -- kites, surfers, 22 volleyball courts lining the pier, families, the rules of the pier up on a board, a lifeguard enforcing one of them on his megaphone (''No Rollerblading on the pier'') -- the whole human panoply is here.
 ON the day I visited Newport Pier just after Christmas such a fierce wind was blowing that the tide raced under the pier like a fast river. Strollers became staggerers, shielding their eyes from scouring sand. Trash cans gave up their lids to the wind. The whole pier trembled like the sound box of a viola, and mist seethed from the piled up white breakers.
 On a day like this, what is a pier for? For getting out to sea in a blazing bright storm without ever leaving land. For looking back at the hills and town as you never could from shore. And for feeling O.K. about doing nothing in particular. 
 ''Mostly, out on the pier you understand that you're not really on the way to somewhere else. You're already there,'' is how Jean Femling put it in ''Great Piers of California.''
 At the lifeguard tower at the foot of Newport Pier, hunky guys with weather-beaten faces and temple-hugging shades surveyed the strand. One of them filled me in on the history. 
 Newport Pier may well be the oldest on the coast, originally built in 1888 as McFadden's Wharf. Ships could easily navigate there, thanks to an undersea canyon that keeps the seas calm. Mr. Huntington brought his trolley line down to Newport Beach in 1905, opening up the area. 
 Most piers along this coast have undergone structural changes caused by weather, economics, even politics, and Newport is no exception. In a giant September 1939 storm, 30-foot waves destroyed the last 400 feet; the pier reopened the next year with a huge fish-fry at which three tons of fish were said to have been eaten. The seas here are certainly rich. Even today, in the lee of the white clapboard restaurant at the end of the pier, closed for the gale, a handful of fishermen tweaked and plied their lines. I spoke with a young man in shades, and it turned out that his mum was from Banbury, England, 20 miles from where I grew up. That's what piers are for, too: idle chat with strangers, where an ad hoc bond forms under the semblance of being at sea.
 Children seem to understand the point of a pier intuitively. They can't help but charge around on it, slaloming toward the end, running desperately to pace themselves against passing waves. But a pier is the natural home of courting couples, too, who cavort as the wind whips their hair and coats about, of elderly couples who try to stroll sedately, of families who are out for multigenerational bracing breaths of air and of gulls, which in a wind like this day's, must enjoy the feeling of flying at great speed while hovering motionless above the rails. 
 The gale blew itself out in the night. Around 7 the next morning, when the shadows were long and the early surfers were out on the glassy, post-storm water, the Newport dory men were coming in. It was quite a sight. The old salts revved their boats and aimed straight at the beach. The surfers paddled desperately to get out of the way. Then the boats rammed straight up the sand. Meanwhile, as a small crowd gathered at the dory men's encampment of old huts, one fellow was busy cutting and selling fish rolled in brown paper. The seaside is one of the last places where you regularly see the loss of life associated with food.
 According to Ms. Femling, Santa Monica Pier has quite a history. First there was the Shoo-Fly Landing, then in the 1890's the mile-long Long Wharf was built; in 1909 the city fishing pier went up. The adjacent Looff Pier dates to 1916, with its roller coaster and carousel and La Monica Ballroom (1924), which could hold about 10,000 people.
 On New Year's Day, Santa Monica Pier was a zoo. Parking alone took 20 minutes. Under all the crowded humanity, it was a wonder the pier didn't give a groan and settle into the waves. The light was perfect, though -- rich and creamy -- so the whole scene seemed gilded. Waves thundered in the background, people chattered, laughed, yelled. The roller coaster rumbled and clattered. A man with a machine filled the air with large bubbles that drifted over Arlington West, the field of white crosses set up every Sunday on the beach by the pier to remind us that America is at war.
 THE reason I was there on New Year's Day in a fragile morning-after state was not to ride the yellow roller coaster but to get into Santa Monica Pier Seafood (258 Santa Monica Pier, 310-394-9683), an unprepossessing place with plastic tables, metal chairs and a long counter where vats of self-service ketchup and mayo wait with congealed spouts. An extractor fan ground away in the background. But behind the counter on a grill, halves of giant lobster were deliciously flaming.
 And this place happens to serve one of the most restorative dishes on earth. The spicy Korean seafood soup -- scallion, squid, mussel, crab, hunks of halibut with fins spiking off them, clams, Asian turnip, little green chilies, tomatoes -- is a kind of Pacific Rim bouillabaisse ($21.75), and a faultless restorer after a big night. With every mouthful my gratitude to Calisto Vasquez, its modest maker, swelled, while outside the human throng enjoyed the carnival rides, the sea air, the sunshine.
 There's no better way to arrive on San Clemente Pier than to climb onto a stool at the bar of the Fisherman's Restaurant (611 Avenida Victoria, 949-498-6390) for a half-dozen oysters ($8.95). It's hard to beat the European method -- a squeeze of lemon, a grind of pepper -- but the horseradish is ferocious there, and a dab on each was bracing and seemed to match the exuberance of the crowd of boisterous customers and crash of the wild white rollers outside. The wind was back, and it was the kind of wind that makes just being out in it a sporting activity deserving of a nourishing reward. If you need a greater reward, try the White Horses (610 Avenida Victoria; 949-429-1800), a new restaurant opposite the pier, for dishes like garlic shrimp with grilled romaine hearts (about $35 to $50 a person).
 Allegedly used as a drop-off during Prohibition, the San Clemente Pier was in effect a gift to the town from Ole Hanson, its developer. Twenty-five men and many mule teams built the pier in 1928. It received a lot of damage in 1939 and 1983 but is thriving now, with a popular bait-and-tackle stall near the end, as well as Schleppy's espresso bar, graced by a pelican weathervane.
 Part of the charm of these piers comes from the way they thread through the affluence of California with an ordinary workadayness: fishermen pulling up their lines and crab baskets, the Amtrak Pacific Surfliner croaking and clanking by in San Clemente and the rough wooden boards through which you can see the green water stirring in some places. A pod of dolphins might cruise by, a few sea lions might bark hoarsely from the pilings, and a pelican might patrol the long swells. For a moment -- far from the suburbia, the freeways, Hollywood and Los Angeles -- it might all be a scene from Steinbeck's ''Cannery Row.'' In the mellow air under the creamy sky out over the water, all California seems to be a place of innocence.

GRAPHIC: Photos: ON THE STRAND -- The Newport Pier is among the oldest in Southern California. (Photo by Jamie Rector for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
HOOKED -- Build a pier, and a fisherman will find it. The pier in Malibu was originally built in 1905 and was recently reopened after renovations.
CATCH OF THE DAY -- A ray taken in February from the waters off the pier in Malibu.
 RECREATION -- A variety of activities are available at the municipal piers, including dining in Newport Beach and fishing and street performances in Santa Monica. (Photographs by Jamie Rector for The New York Times)(pg. F6)Map of Southern California highlighting prominent ocean piers. (pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SURFING (88%); MARINE SHIPPING (76%); ROLLERBLADING & ROLLERSKATING (73%); CHRISTMAS (68%) Recreation; Piers

PERSON: Henry Shukman

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) California

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2007



114 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1642 words

HEADLINE: Dutch Soldiers Stress Restraint In Afghanistan

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS

DATELINE: QALA-E-SURKH, Afghanistan 

 BODY:
The Dutch infantrymen stood on a ridge near the Baluchi Valley, an area in south-central Afghanistan controlled by the Taliban and tribes opposed to the central government.
 Whenever they push farther, the soldiers said, they swiftly come under fire from rifles and rocket-propelled grenades. ''The whole valley is pretty much hostile,'' said one, a machine gunner.
But rather than advancing for reconnaissance or to attack, the Dutch soldiers pulled back to a safer village. ''We're not here to fight the Taliban,'' said the Dutch commander, Col. Hans van Griensven, at a recent staff meeting. ''We're here to make the Taliban irrelevant.''
 Thousands of fresh Western troops have flowed into Afghanistan since last year, seeking to counter the resurgent Taliban before an expected spring offensive. Many American units have been conducting sweeps and raids. 
 But here in Uruzgan Province, where the Taliban operate openly, a Dutch-led task force has mostly shunned combat. Its counterinsurgency tactics emphasize efforts to improve Afghan living conditions and self-governance, rather than hunting the Taliban's fighters. Bloodshed is out. Reconstruction, mentoring and diplomacy are in. American military officials have expressed unease about the Dutch method, warning that if the Taliban are not kept under military pressure in Uruzgan, they will use the province as a haven and project their insurgency into neighboring provinces.
 The Dutch counter that construction projects and consistent political and social support will lure the population from the Taliban, allowing the central and provincial governments to expand their authority over the long term.
 Insurgency and counterinsurgency tactics have long been subjects of intensive tinkering and debate, as military and police forces from different nations, and even different units within nations, have chosen conflicting approaches.
 The Dutch-led force of about 2,000 soldiers has adopted what counterinsurgency theorists call the ''oil spot'' approach. Under this tactic, it concentrates efforts in less hostile areas, especially a basin around Tarin Kowt, the provincial capital, which overlaps an economic development zone designated by Hamid Karzai, the Afghan president.
 The central idea is that if foreign military forces show restraint and respect, and help the local government to govern, then these areas will expand, slowly but persistently, like an oil stain across a shirt. As they grow, the theory says, the Taliban's standing will decline.
 To date, the Dutch, aided by American soldiers and contractors who train Afghan police officers and soldiers, have helped Afghan units to coordinate security and build police posts. Simultaneously, they have sent teams of specialists and Australian engineers to choose development projects and plan them with village leaders. They have built or repaired schools, mosques, police garrisons, courtrooms and a hospital inside the more secure areas. A bridge and a police training center are under construction or in design. They also have opened a trade school that teaches Afghan laborers basic job skills, including carpentry and generator repair.
 To encourage expansion of the government's influence, the Dutch infantry conducts patrols around the secure zones, and reconstruction teams try to identify future projects and allies who can extend the ring of influence. ''Inside the inner ring, we try to do a lot of long-lasting development projects,'' said Lt. Col. Gert-Jan Kooij, the task force's operations officer. ''It's not like it is 100 percent safe there. It never is. But it's permissive at least. And by showing that we have projects in the permissive areas, we hope the people in other areas will see that it gets better when they work with their government.''
 Such counterinsurgency tactics are not new; they are only back in vogue, with a new generation of officers drawing lessons from past military operations in Indonesia, Malaysia, Borneo, Vietnam and elsewhere. 
 Similar tactics have reappeared in American units in Iraq, as both the Army and the Marine Corps have been rewriting doctrine along the same lines. 
 But the Dutch have embraced the theory more fully than most, to the point that most Dutch units now take extraordinary steps to avoid military escalation and risks of damage to property or harm to civilians. (When armored vehicles damaged a grove of mulberry trees, a captain came by the next day to negotiate a compensation payment for the farmers.)
 When Dutch units patrol, they usually avoid known hostile zones, which include expansive patches of Uruzgan Province. When a Dutch unit is attacked, it typically withdraws from enemy range. In areas where the Taliban are less prevalent, soldiers do not wear helmets, which the Dutch say makes them more approachable.
 Dutch commanders say they also draw from their army's experiences in southern Iraq from 2003 through 2005, where similar tactics were used. They say their units had better relations with Iraqis, and faced less fighting, than did American units. Civilian deaths and property damage caused by American tactics in Iraq and Afghanistan, they said, have hardened villagers' attitudes, which helps the insurgents with recruiting, intelligence and protection.
 Dutch officers also say the approach has yielded promising results here. Sometimes villagers have warned them of ambushes or roadside bombs, and in several villages the Dutch are rarely attacked. Since the task force began operations last August, it has not suffered a combat fatality. Colonel van Griensven also said the task force had developed underground contacts in Taliban-controlled regions.
 ''If you look at what we have done in eight months, I am optimistic,'' he said. ''We have a good start with the basics.''
 He added that he could deploy his units on sweeps, searches and raids, and chase the Taliban away. But each time after his infantry left an area, he said, the Taliban would simply move back in.
 Not everyone is convinced, and some participants openly worry that the formula is out of balance, undermined by too great a reluctance to use force. Large areas of Uruzgan remain Taliban havens. The local government, plagued by corruption, remains so weak that it does not yet have a significant program against soaring poppy production, which helps underwrite the insurgency. One Afghan interpreter who works with the Dutch said their approach was passive.
 ''The Dutch, if the fight starts, they run inside their vehicles every time,'' said the interpreter, who asked that his name be withheld because he risked losing his job. ''They say, 'We came for peace, not to fight.' And I say, 'If you don't fight, you cannot have peace in Afghanistan.' ''
 Uruzgan is also clearly not as safe as casualty statistics suggest. Neither the United Nations nor any foreign aid organizations work here, because they judge the province too dangerous. The insurgents often plant bombs and conduct ambushes, although so far the bombs have not been as powerful as those in Iraq, and Afghan marksmanship has often been poor. In late March a suicide bomber struck an armored vehicle, and this two-day patrol near the Baluchi Valley entrance was warned that two suicide car bombers were stalking them.
 The Dutch must move slowly on dirt roads, searching for mines. And a Dutch patrol base in Poentjak, near the Baluchi Valley, is a lonely fortress, often coming under rocket and mortar fire.
 One platoon commander, First Lt. Rick, who according to Dutch rules for junior soldiers could be identified only by his rank and first name, noted that anger at foreign troops persisted even in the secure areas. In Tarin Kowt, a city of about 100,000 people, the population in most neighborhoods tolerates Dutch patrols. But on the city's western side, he said, people throw stones or stare icily, slowly running their fingers across their throats.
 For soldiers trained to fight, the soft approach is at times uncomfortable. A noncommissioned officer, Cpl. Niels, recalled the terrorist attacks in America in 2001. ''We are soldiers,'' he said. ''We saw the planes coming in and we wanted to go to Afghanistan and fight. But other people don't see if that way.''
 Pvt. Kai noted that Afghanistan's Pashtun tribes had resisted outside influence for more than 1,000 years, and said it was unlikely the isolated population of Uruzgan would accept the central government in a time frame anything like what Dutch military planners hope for.
 In some respects, the soldiers said, the Dutch must seek support from two populations: one in Afghanistan, the other back home. The Netherlands is more averse to casualties than the United States, the soldiers said, which influences choices in the field.
 Still, of roughly two dozen soldiers and officers interviewed, none felt that avoiding casualties was the driving force behind their tactical choices. And Dutch officers point out that Dutch special forces are operating here, and fight the Taliban directly. In the past week, they said, those forces had at least four engagements, which included airstrikes or artillery support.
 Military officers further noted that successful counterinsurgency efforts typically required a decade or more -- not months. Colonel van Griensven estimated that the task force's approach would require at least 10 years. But the Dutch government has thus far committed to a two-year mission, ending in 2008, raising the question of whether their tactics will endure should the Dutch depart or reduce troop levels.
 Colonel van Griensven said he understood the arguments over where the balance should lie between fighting and seeking friends. ''There is no right answer,'' he said.
 ''The only thing we believe is that using too much fighting is counterproductive. Will we be successful? I cannot tell yet.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dutch soldiers with a member, right, of the Afghan National Police recently in Qala-e-Surkh, Afghanistan. This Dutch-led unit shuns combat. (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
The unit stopped and searched a vehicle recently in south-central Afghanistan. It was diverted because of military operations in the region.
Some residents in Uruzgan Province met recently with the Dutch soldiers, whose tactics emphasize efforts to improve living conditions.
Dutch soldiers patrolling the Afghan countryside, in Uruzgan Province where the Taliban openly operate. But the unit generally shuns combat.
 In Qala-e-Surkh, Afghanistan, a Dutch-led task force, prepared for another day after sleeping outdoors. The unit stresses diplomacy. (Photographs by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)(pg. A12)Map of Afghanistan highlighting Qala-e-Surkh: The Dutch-led unit operates in and around Qala-e-Surkh. (pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); POLICE FORCES (87%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (69%); RELIGION (50%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: Taliban (Afghan Group)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (58%) C J Chivers

GEOGRAPHIC: NETHERLANDS (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%) Afghanistan; Uruzgan Province (Afghanistan); Netherlands; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2007



115 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; EXHIBITION REVIEW; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1898 words

HEADLINE: An Upgrade For Ye Olde History Park

BYLINE: By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN

DATELINE: WILLIAMSBURG, Va. 

 BODY:
Patrick Henry was sitting just to my left in the Virginia House of Burgesses as the debate raged about the events that had been following the Boston Tea Party. Mr. Henry was a brilliant hothead, of course, though not yet moved to pose his famous nonnegotiable alternatives, demanding liberty or death. But when Governor Dunmore of the Virginia colony strode into the room, even Mr. Henry rose, out of respect to the authority of the king, as did we all, even those of us carrying digital cameras, umbrellas and souvenir bags. 
 Then the governor announced to these local legislators, landed gentry every one, that he was dissolving the House of Burgesses because of their rebellious deliberations. Discussion about the imminent political crises of 1774 were adjourned to the tables of the Raleigh Tavern.
We hangers-on would have been happy enough to join in or just listen. But further debate was not to be heard until later, leaving time to check in with the saddlemaker, with whom I discussed battles in the not-yet-fought Revolutionary War. Then it was off to a small room of another 18th-century building, where I overheard three slaves debating alternatives after reading a declaration from Dunmore promising them freedom if they escaped and joined him in defense of the crown. 
 Being a colonial tourist is a bit disorienting, particularly on days like the recent ones I spent, in rain and off-season, with scarcely another person in modern dress to be seen. Instead there were ruffles and bonnets and velvet cloaks, the coal fires of the blacksmith, and much to-do among the gentry about gunpowder and taxes. 
 Colonial Williamsburg, where all this took place (about 150 miles south of Washington), is variously called a historical village or a living museum. But that means much more now than it once did. Aside from dramatizing historical controversies, the town is also caught up in living ones: debates about who writes history and how it is told, about what historical realism is and how it should be portrayed, even about what aspects of our past are to be celebrated in this strange combination of education and entertainment. 
 Everything here, for example, is from late-18th-century Virginia, with crucial exceptions including: no slavery apart from the dramatizations (although until just a few decades ago here forms of discrimination and segregation were still commonplace), flush toilets and freshly painted buildings as carefully tended as suburban developments, which in some ways Colonial Williamsburg resembles. 
 One doesn't really step into the past here, or in any of the other historical villages developed after Colonial Williamsburg's pioneering success. Despite the obsession with authenticity -- historical techniques and period tools reign, the blue-gray glaze on the bricks is reproduced using local clay and hardwood fires, 88 Colonial buildings have been restored and more than 400 created based on research by architects and archaeologists -- nothing seems quite real. Reproductions and renovations and innovations intermingle, creating an image of the past so carefully constructed that it is a re-creation in all senses of the word. 
 But what an astonishing enterprise it is, and what a difficult task Colonial Williamsburg now faces. It was always meant to be an inspiration. In the early 20th century the Rev. William Archer Rutherfoord Goodwin, rector of the local parish, imagined creating ''a living shrine that will present a picture, right before our eyes, of the shining days'' when the town was ''a crucible of freedom.'' He won the support of John D. Rockefeller Jr., who later said the historical village ''teaches of the patriotism, high purpose and unselfish devotion of our forefathers to the common good.'' At its opening in 1934 President Franklin D. Roosevelt visited and pronounced its central Duke of Gloucester Street ''the most historic avenue in all America.'' Since then almost every president has toured the premises; President Ronald Reagan even held an economic summit of industrialized nations here in 1983. 
 But that symbolic weight may now be a burden. This living museum's very point -- a celebration of the origins of the United States -- is often greeted with skepticism. In their preoccupation with this country's past flaws and failures, organizers of the nearby Jamestown's 400th-anniversary events in May have shunned the term celebration in favor of commemoration. 
 Even if it were flush with cultural confidence, though, can a 301-acre historical village now hope to compete with more extravagant theme parks? Attendance at Colonial Williamsburg has been increasing in recent years, according to a spokesman -- there were 745,000 paid visitors in 2006 -- but the peak was in 1985 with 1.1 million. 
 The Colonial Williamsburg Foundation, which runs the village under the direction of its chairman and president, Colin G. Campbell, recently announced plans to sell a 400-acre plantation called Carter's Grove, on the banks of the James River, partly because of declining attendance and shifting priorities. 
 Yet with the cushion of a $774 million endowment and continued fund-raising the foundation has added more extensive dramatizations for its costumed interpreters, increased its children's activities, renovated its conference center, is introducing audio tours for teenagers and has just opened a new Abby Aldrich Rockefeller Folk Art Museum, which has 5,000 objects. Plans call for continued growth of traditional museum space but -- significantly -- not for the high-tech annexes that other historical sites are establishing to lure audiences, which would undercut the institution's claims to colonial realism. 
 Meanwhile Colonial Williamsburg has been changing its symbolic character. Instead of offering itself as a model colonial town, it presents itself as a town whose colonial past provides an opportunity to explore the United States' defining dramas. As Richard Handler and Eric Gable point out in their 1997 book, ''The New History in an Old Museum: Creating the Past at Colonial Williamsburg,'' the perspective changed under the influence of social and political historians in the 1970s. For the most part (and to the disappointment of those authors), this has meant not radical self-skepticism, but the establishment of a broader perspective, understanding, for example, as the institution's literature has said, ''how patriots and loyalists reached their different points of view.'' 
 It has also meant incorporating something previously ignored. As its Web site puts it: ''During the 18th century, half of Williamsburg's population was black. The lives of the enslaved and free people in this Virginia capital are presented in re-enactments and programs by Colonial Williamsburg's Department of African American Interpretation and Presentations, founded in 1988.'' Black craftsmen and guides are now familiar figures, as are interpreters playing the roles of slaves. 
 ''That the future may learn from the past'' was the motto Rockefeller chose for Colonial Williamsburg. But as even the institution's history and coffee-table book, ''Colonial Williamsburg'' by Philip Kopper, suggests, the area's own past may also hold some lessons. Before Colonial Williamsburg there were living museums in Europe, but the closest thing in the United States was Henry Ford's Greenfield Village in Dearborn, Mich., which had opened a few years earlier, in 1928. A patched-together reflection of Ford's vision of America's past, it included everything from the childhood home of Robert Frost to the one-room schoolhouse Ford attended. 
 Williamsburg was something else. It really was Virginia's capital, a Southern counterpart to Boston, a political incubator for ideas about governance and liberty, where one of the colonies' first newspapers, The Virginia Gazette, was published. But after the capital moved to Richmond in 1780 under Gov. Thomas Jefferson, Williamsburg descended into sleepy irrelevance until Rockefeller secretly began to buy up houses in the late 1920s, under Goodwin's guidance. 
 He eventually poured $68 million into the project, hiring architects and researchers and almost single-handedly creating an American culture of historical restoration (and perhaps, along with it, an association between America's 20th-century gentry and its Virginian predecessors). Life tenancies and relocations were offered to the 20th-century inhabitants of Williamsburg; now residences of employees and artisans mix with staged historical displays. 
 The enterprise has always had its critics. One 1920s resident, Maj. S. D. Freeman, challenged his fellow citizens to imagine their future: ''Will you not be in the position of a butterfly pinned in a glass cabinet, or like a mummy unearthed in the tomb of Tutankhamen?'' In 1938 Frank Lloyd Wright described the project as an example of America's ''mawkish sentimentality for a past that wasn't any good.'' In their book Mr. Handler and Mr. Gable call it a ''Republican Disneyland,'' accusing it of hiding American history's darker aspects. And Ada Louise Huxtable, a former architecture critic for The New York Times, attacked the groomed artifice of its picturesque past in her book ''The Unreal America.'' 
 It is impossible to stroll the village without feeling that sense of artifice, beginning with an introductory film shown in the cavernous Visitor Center. A 1957 historical mini-epic, ''Williamsburg: The Story of a Patriot,'' invokes the sentiments of its cold war era, being ''dedicated to the principles of liberty wherever and whenever they may be threatened.'' Shot on site, the film can veer toward camp, with its images of smiling plantation slaves and story of a landowner won over by Patrick Henry's revolutionary convictions.
 The film is dated in manner and vision, but for all its flaws, it still has an effect: It dramatically captures many of the colonial era's issues, provides a sense of the period and reasons to pay attention to it, and provokes curiosity. Ultimately, its sentiments seem far less dated than they do at first. 
 That same shift takes place while experiencing Colonial Williamsburg itself. The place is artificial and always was. But the debates I witnessed that rainy day among gentry legislators and anxious slaves provided glimpses of the significance and character of colonial-era Williamsburg; the repeated exposure to crafts seriously executed gave some sense of the devotion and labor that characterized colonial culture; and the hints of pain and shadow were enough to suggest the complications of the past, without eclipsing reasons to celebrate it. 
 It is not the injustices that make Williamsburg unusual, but the steps taken there to seek more just forms of governance. The place's artifice eventually casts its spell, even while acknowledging that artifice is indeed at work. Perhaps that makes Colonial Williamsburg more postmodern than colonial. Fifes, Drums, DebateColonial Williamsburg is about 150 miles south of Washington, midway between Richmond and Norfolk off Interstate 64 at Exit 238. It is open year round; hours through June 17 are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. A one-day pass is $36; $18 for ages 6 to 17. Passes are available for periods from two days up to a year, and discount passes are available for guests in Colonial Williamsburg hotels. Information: (757) 229-1000, www.history.org.

GRAPHIC: Photos: An exchange of past and present: an interpreter discusses rare livestock breeds, like Leicester Longwool sheep, which may have been raised in 18th-century Williamsburg. (Photo by David M. Doody/Colonial Williamsburg Foundation)(pg. E38)
 Colonial Williamsburg -- Despite a gloss on negative aspects of colonial times, slavery is part of the picture at this historical village, amid debate about conveying such aspects of the past. (Photo by Colonial Williamsburg Foundation)(pg. E31) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); SLAVERY (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); RACE & RACISM (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (71%); DISCRIMINATION (66%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (63%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (55%); MISC LEATHER GOODS MFG (53%); SUBURBS (50%) Reviews; History 

PERSON: Edward Rothstein

GEOGRAPHIC: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (95%) VIRGINIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Williamsburg (Va)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2007



116 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: Not Just New Jersey

 BODY:
It would be naive to believe that the rot in New Jersey's public pension system is limited to New Jersey. The Times's Mary Williams Walsh reported on Wednesday that over the last decade, various New Jersey legislatures and governors have routinely shortchanged the state's public pension fund, while overstating the amounts that were contributed, sometimes by hundreds of millions of dollars. 
 Among the unorthodox and possibly illegal tactics, state officials pretended that a stock market windfall from 1999, which had disappeared with the dot-com bubble, was still on the books. They also counted funds earmarked for health care benefits as pension contributions. The gap between what officials said was contributed and what the records show is so large that it's currently impossible to say how much is actually in the state pension system. But one thing is sure. The reported assets of $79 billion are far too low to meet future obligations to the state's teachers, firefighters, police officers and other public employees.
In New Jersey, the state Constitution forbids cutting earned pension benefits, so the payments will have to be made. To make good, the state will have to raise taxes, cut spending, sell assets or some combination of the three. At present, the New Jersey Turnpike is reportedly being considered for the auction block. It all adds up to extreme fiscal pain, mostly self-inflicted. 
 While other states may not have indulged in iffy accounting to the extent that New Jersey has, many have faced the same political pressure: constituents demand tax cuts, but do not want to endure the government spending cuts that lower revenue implies. So officials are tempted to fiddle with the state pension law, using the money that would otherwise fund the pension for more immediate gratifications. In California, the teachers' pension fund is currently suing the state for withholding a $500 million contribution, first delayed under the previous governor, Gray Davis, and held up to this day under Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger. 
 Worse than the lack of money is the failure of elected officials to honestly explain to voters that tax cuts must be paid for -- and that starving the state pension funds is not a lasting or moral solution. For states that don't yet have their backs to the wall, New Jersey should be a cautionary tale. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (93%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); TAX LAW (87%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (71%); ETHICS (68%) Editorials; Government Employees; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Ethics; States (US)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2007



117 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Cellphones, Maxi-Pads and Other Life-Changing Tools

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: NAIROBI, Kenya 

 BODY:
For decades, the world has asked: How do we free Africa from its yoke of poverty, disease and misgovernance? In asking Kenyans that question, I've been struck at the simple, common-sense solutions they offer. Four in particular stand out: transparency, telephones, Tergat and Kotex.
 Naisiae Tobiko is a 28-year-old dynamo who grew up in Kenya's Masai region. She runs a public relations firm, but when we met all she wanted to talk about was Kenya's shortage of sanitary napkins for girls. Here's why, she explained: Her family could afford to send her to school, where she thrived. As she got older, though, she started to notice something about the less well-off girls -- they missed four days of class every month, ''and I could not understand why.'' When she finally asked, they confided that they did not come to school when they were menstruating -- because their parents could not afford sanitary napkins. 
''They would say, 'How can I come to a place when I am bleeding?' '' she recalled. ''Some were using rags or soil or mud.'' Because of those lost school days, many eventually dropped out. So Ms. Tobiko recently teamed up with the Girl Child Network and other N.G.O.s here and started a project in the countryside to distribute free sanitary napkins. They have targeted 500,000 girls, and so far have reached 189,000. More school days means more educated women and better mothers.
 ''We're keeping girls in school,'' said Ms. Tobiko. If women get education, ''we want nothing else,'' she added. ''We will fight our way into every field, but we need the main key -- which is education.''
 Kenya first began holding multiparty elections in 1992, and its next national election is slated for December. (By the way, Kenyans love the fact that Barack Obama, whose father was Kenyan, is running for president of the U.S. since, they joke, someone from his Luo tribe could never get elected president of Kenya!) The field here is already crowded with presidential wannabes. But the most revealing conversation I had on this subject was with someone not running.
 Vimal Shah owns an oil services company in Kenya, Bidco, and he was eager to tell me that with eight months until the election he had decided to make a big investment to expand his business. So what? I said. ''People here never invest in the year before an election,'' he explained. The fear is always that the new guy will change all the rules -- often for his cronies. But Mr. Shah, like others here, believes Kenya's evolution to democracy, with more transparent rules, has now reached a point where ''even if the government changes, it won't change the rules. The politicians can't stop this.'' 
 It is striking how just the little improvement in governance here can start a torrent of cash flowing in. But so could more cellphones. 
 Rose Lukalo Owino, a Kenyan author, told me this story: ''I was recently in Ngutani, east of Nairobi. I was reporting for a book and interviewing these women who raised goats.'' The women complained that for years they had been swindled by middlemen who would get them to sell their goats for a pittance, because the women didn't know the price in the Nairobi markets. ''But when I interviewed them, these women were holding so much money,'' said Ms. Owino. Why? Fourteen villages got together and bought one cellphone, which they now share to check the market prices in Nairobi for goats before they sell. ''They were talking to me about opening a microlending bank with their profits,'' she said.
 But Africa doesn't just need more phone models. It needs more role models. I met one of the best here -- Paul Tergat, the great Kenyan distance runner who's earned five world cross country championships and two Olympic silver medals. Mr. Tergat recently won a contract from the government to promote anticorruption themes. For starters, he organized some of Kenya's greatest distance runners to carry a torch from Mombasa to the Ugandan border. The torch represented a spotlight on corruption. Kenyans turned out to cheer them all along the route.
 He used Kenya's runners, Mr. Tergat said, because unlike politicians, when they win a medal it ''is open, and genuine, and clean, and they practiced for 10 years to get it. The message is to say to young people, 'Look here, you don't have to be corrupt. You can do it if you are patient.' ''
 Add all this up and you have what impresses me most here: the way Kenya's emerging democracy is unlocking Kenya's best minds to find Kenyan solutions to Kenya's problems. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (85%); ELECTIONS (85%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (77%); WOMEN (75%); TRENDS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); POLITICS (66%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (56%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (50%) Freedom and Human Rights; Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); BARACK OBAMA (56%) Thomas L Friedman

GEOGRAPHIC: NAIROBI, KENYA (78%) KENYA (99%); AFRICA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%) Kenya

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2007



118 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: Throwing Batters Curves Before Throwing a Pitch

BYLINE: By ALAN SCHWARZ

 BODY:
The pitch was nothing remarkable: Pat Venditte, Creighton University's temporarily right-handed pitcher, threw a fastball past a Northern Iowa batter for a called strike three. It was his next windup that evinced this young pitcher's uniqueness and, perhaps, professional future.
 As his teammates whipped the ball around the infield, Venditte smoothly, unthinkingly, removed his custom glove from his left hand and slipped it on his right. Moments later he leaned back, threw a strike left-handed to the next batter, and finished the side in order.
Venditte is believed to be the only ambidextrous pitcher in N.C.A.A. Division I college baseball, the ultimate relief specialist. A junior, he throws left-handed to lefties and right-handed to righties, and effectively. In a home game in Omaha last Friday, he allowed only one hit in five and a third shutout innings to earn the victory against Northern Iowa. 
 Because neither arm was particularly tired afterward, Venditte also pitched in both games of Creighton's doubleheader against Northern Iowa two days later, retiring the only batter he faced (left-handed) in the first game and then tossing a shutout inning (pitching both ways) in the nightcap. He also pitched two innings, alternating arms, in Tuesday's game against archrival Nebraska. Venditte (pronounced ven-DEH-tee) has a fine 3.29 earned run average in 18 appearances this season.
 ''I don't think twice about it,'' said Venditte, whose father, Pat Sr., taught him to throw with both arms when he was 3. ''You grew up with it, you love it, you want to keep playing as long as you can.''
 Venditte has improved so much in the past year that major league scouts are starting to consider him a possible late-round pick in this June's amateur draft because of his versatility. ''He could be an economical two-for-one,'' Jerry Lafferty, a longtime scout for the Philadelphia Phillies, said last Friday while assessing the 21-year-old Venditte from behind the backstop.
 College baseball has had a few switch-pitchers in the past 15 years, but the major leagues have had only one since the 19th century: Greg Harris, primarily a right-handed reliever for many clubs from 1981 through 1995, pitched one inning using both arms for the Montreal Expos in his final season. That outing was considered more stunt than strategy.
 Venditte is smoothly proficient from both sides. His deliveries are not mirror images of each other: as a right-hander he throws over the top and relatively hard, up to 91 miles an hour, with a tumbling curveball; as a left-hander, he relies on a whip-like sidearm delivery and a biting slider.
 Umpires working Creighton's games have to dust off seldom-used rules regarding switch-pitchers. Like everyone else, Venditte gets only eight warm-up pitches upon entering a game and five before any inning, whether he chooses to throw left-handed or right-handed, and may not warm up again if he changes arms midinning.
 A switch-pitcher facing a switch-hitter could make a fine Abbott and Costello routine. Against Nebraska last year, a switch-hitter came to the plate right-handed, prompting Venditte to switch to his right arm, which caused the batter to move to the left-hand batter's box, with Venditte switching his arm again. Umpires ultimately restored order, applying the rule (the same as that in the majors) that a pitcher must declare which arm he will use before throwing his first pitch and cannot change before the at-bat ends.
 ''Eventually, after 10 or 15 minutes, they got it figured out,'' Venditte said with a smile.
 Venditte's customized Louisville Slugger glove is as distinctive as its owner: four fingers are flanked by two thumbs, perfectly symmetrical, so that he can slip it on either hand with ease. It allows him to change throwing arms so seamlessly during warmups -- one second No. 27 is throwing left-handed, the next right-handed -- that many unaware fans and opponents do double-takes.
 ''The first time you see him, it's definitely a distraction,'' said Northern Iowa shortstop Brandon Douglas, who struck out (right-handed) against Venditte last Friday. ''On the bus ride to games people talk, 'You should see this guy. It's pretty neat.' ''
 Until teams actually face him, that is. Creighton's coach, Ed Servais, initially resisted using Venditte both ways because, he said, ''I am a traditionalist when it comes to baseball, and I didn't want it to become a circus.'' But Venditte proved his ability last season, when he used both arms in 22 games and struck out batters each way in 12 of them.
 The Bluejays use Venditte as a long reliever so that he can be deployed at any point in any game. In the Northern Iowa game last Friday, for example, Venditte quelled a third-inning rally and then, facing a lineup that alternated its lefty and righty hitters, calmly switched throwing arms 10 times in the next five innings and allowed no runs and only one single. (Pitch limits are looser with Venditte because he shares the workload between his arms.) 
 ''Usually you have to follow the hitter: a left-hander's coming up, so you have to decide whether to bring a lefty in,'' Creighton's pitching coach, Rob Smith, said. ''In this scenario, you have the control. It helps the depth of the bullpen a lot -- you don't have to burn a guy to get the matchup you want.''
 Venditte is naturally right-handed. But his father, a former college ballplayer who at 61 still catches for his Men's Senior Baseball League team, noticed his 3-year-old son picking up a ball and throwing it with both arms on his own, and encouraged him to pursue it.
 ''You've got to cultivate that,'' said Pat Sr., who later built a batting cage, complete with lights, near the family's home in an Italian neighborhood of Omaha. 
 To build his son's muscles for baseball, Pat Sr. also taught Little Pat to punt with both legs and throw a football with both arms. ''If I'd stuck with it,'' he said, ''he could have been a QB with both hands.'' 
 Venditte's mound versatility could become an interesting test of baseball's trend toward specialization. Major league teams have long forced college stars who both pitch and hit -- players like Dave Stieb, John Olerud and Brad Wilkerson -- to focus on either pitching or hitting as professionals, claiming that one is difficult enough. But as bullpens become ever more segmented, with left-handed and right-handed specialists entering games for only one or two batters apiece, a pitcher who can do both for one salary would certainly be intriguing.
 Venditte said he would probably return to Creighton for his senior season, trying to add a few miles an hour to his fastballs and enjoying the camaraderie of college ball. After throwing his five-plus innings last Friday, Venditte characteristically shunned ice treatment and skipped the trainer's room. He joined the rest of his teammates by pulling the tarp across the diamond -- with both hands, naturally.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Pat Venditte: AS A RIGHT-HANDER
Pat Venditte: AS A LEFT-HANDER (Photographs by Chris Machian for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 Above, Pat Venditte's name split a lineup card. Left, Venditte's custom glove, with four finger holes flanked by two thumb holes. (Photo by Chris Machian for The New York Times)(pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (91%); BASEBALL (91%); ATHLETES (78%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); AMATEUR SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%) Baseball; Draft and Recruitment (Sports); Baseball

ORGANIZATION: CREIGHTON UNIVERSITY (93%); NORTHERN IOWA UNIVERSITY (93%); NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION (59%) Creighton University; National Collegiate Athletic Assn

PERSON: Alan Schwarz; Pat Venditte

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); OMAHA, NE, USA (58%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (51%) IOWA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (58%); QUEBEC, CANADA (51%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (51%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2007



119 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1575 words

HEADLINE: China's Appetites Lead to Changes In Its Trade Diet

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO; Joshua Schneyer contributed reporting from Rondonopolis, and David Barboza from Shanghai.

DATELINE: RONDONOPOLIS, Brazil 

 BODY:
For more than 2,000 years, the Chinese have turned soybeans into tofu, a staple of the country's diet. 
 But as its economy grows, so does China's appetite for pork, poultry and beef, which require higher volumes of soybeans as animal feed. Plagued by scarce water supplies, China is turning to a new trading partner 15,000 miles away -- Brazil -- to supply more protein-packed beans essential to a richer diet.
China's global scramble for natural resources is leading to a transformation of agricultural trading around the world. In China, vanishing cropland and diminishing water supplies are hampering the country's ability to feed itself, and the increasing use of farmland in the United States to produce biofuels is pushing China to seek more of its staples from South America, where land is still cheap and plentiful.
 ''China is out there beating the bushes,'' said Robert L. Thompson, a professor at the University of Illinois who is a former director of agricultural and rural development at the World Bank. The goal, he said, is ''to ensure they have access to long-term contracts for minerals and energy and food.'' 
 Once, the biggest bilateral food trade flowed between the United States, the world's largest food exporter, and Japan. But countries with vast arable land available for expansion, particularly Brazil, are now racing to meet demand in China, whose population of 1.3 billion is 10 times that of Japan's.
 Farmers in the United States have started planting far more corn for ethanol at the expense of other crops, including soybeans. But after the United States grain embargo by President Richard M. Nixon in the early 1970s helped spawn Brazil's soybean industry, American farmers are not giving up their leading role in the grain trade easily. 
 With a far superior system for transporting crops to global markets, American farmers still enjoy many advantages over their new competitors from Brazil and elsewhere in the developing world. Infrastructure and financing constraints in Brazil will keep the competition to feed China in flux for years to come.
 But the longer-term trends are apparent. At the heart of the shift is the global competition for land to grow crops. Brazil, which farms about 175 million acres, has room to double its available cropland to equal the scale of the United States, analysts say, even without clearing any more of the Amazon rainforest.
 ''All of a sudden you have a global market for land, a competition between several different products for the same amount of land,'' said Sergio Barroso, president for the Brazil operations of Cargill, the biggest grain trader in the world. Brazil's soybean industry is losing acres to sugar cane for ethanol production in some areas, he said, and is competing with corn, cotton and cattle.
 ''If you put it all together between feed and food,'' Mr. Barroso said, ''it is going to be a tremendous challenge.''
 Expectations ran high three years ago when Hu Jintao, the president of China, visited South America and toasted a strategic partnership with his Brazilian counterpart, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, predicting trade between the countries would double to $20 billion. China pledged $10 billion in investments.
 To some extent, Brazilians have been disappointed in the follow-up. The Chinese have struggled with red tape in Brazil and hesitated while waiting for Brazilian rules to activate public-private investments. ''Very little has happened,'' said Pedro de Camargo Neto, a former official in the agriculture ministry in Brazil who is now an agribusiness consultant.
 But China has continued its buying spree in Brazil. The soybean trade between the countries has exploded. Last year Brazil sent nearly 11 million tons of beans to China, a 50 percent increase from the previous year and nearly double the amount shipped in 2004. Early indications are that Brazil has produced yet another record crop, and analysts expect that China will devour most of it.
 While the United States remains the largest producer of soybeans, last year Brazil became the biggest exporter. This year the United States will regain the crown, but its soybean exports are expected to fall by 23 percent by 2009-10, according to the Agriculture Department.
 For all the gains here, though, the surge in exports to China has created unease among many in Brazilian agriculture, who worry the tightening relationship will accelerate a development model in which Brazil is too reliant on sales of raw natural resources rather than higher-value products. And after enjoying a trade surplus with China, Brazil slipped into a deficit in the most recent quarter as the Chinese stepped up shipments of manufactured goods.
 The challenge of supplying China is already showing signs of strain. A soybean boom has turned to a bust in the last two years for many farmers here in Mato Grosso, a state in western Brazil the size of Texas and Kansas that produces more than a third of the country's beans.
 Near Rondonopolis, Rogerio Salles watched recently as a handful of combines harvested the last soybeans on his 17,500-acre farm ringed by eucalyptus and rubber trees. ''Just because we're producing a lot of beans here doesn't mean we're making money,'' he said.
 The strong Brazilian currency and a transportation bottleneck are conspiring against many Mato Grosso farmers. Most of the beans are trucked south more than a thousand miles along highways riddled with potholes. At the ports, some ships wait at anchor up to a month before finding a dock to load the beans.
 ''If major investments are not made in transport infrastructure, China cannot count on this region being a stable supplier to its market,'' Mr. Salles said. ''There's a lot riding on this.''
 Moving soybeans from Mato Grosso to ports in Brazil costs more than four times what American farmers spend to get beans from the Midwest to New Orleans and the Pacific Northwest. As a result, Brazilian farms realize far less for their crops than their American counterparts.
 Brazil's agricultural sector has been dominated by large investors who bought huge tracts at cheap prices, and by multinational grain traders -- like Minneapolis-based Cargill and Archer Daniels Midland, based in Decatur, Ill. -- that have built storage, provided financing and lined up the overseas buyers. 
 Through his Maggi Group, Blairo Maggi, the governor of Mato Grosso, is the largest soybean grower in the world, and a major financier, with 400,000 acres of his own under production.
 ''It has been all about a land grab in Brazil,'' said Daniel W. Basse, president of AgResource, an agricultural research consultancy.
 For the farmers in Mato Grosso, prosperity has been elusive lately. Growers in the state amassed $14.5 billion in debt in the last two years. Farmers say they can no longer afford storage space, forcing them to sell their crops as soon as harvested, rather than wait for higher prices.
 ''You do all the work, you plant the right crops,'' Mr. Salles, the local farmer, said. ''But even when you do everything right, you still lose.''
 The growers' desperation has allowed the major grain traders to tighten their grip. Brazilian farmers say they are paying up to 25 percent more for supplies like fertilizers provided by the traders, who are paid back with the crop. ''We are becoming slaves of the big trading companies,'' said Ricardo Tomczyk, another farmer in Rondonopolis. 
 Jose Luiz Glaser, the general manager for grains and oilseeds at Cargill Brazil, said that Cargill stopped financing several farmers in Mato Grosso last year after they failed to pay their bills.
 Such orphaned farmers could soon find new Chinese benefactors, who are looking to make inroads in the clubby world of Brazilian agriculture, said Charles Tang, president of the Brazil-China Chamber of Commerce. Brazilian farmers say they would welcome Chinese money. But they worry about China's growing clout as a soybean buyer. Memories are still fresh of the 2004 ''red beans'' incident, when China rejected shipments of Brazilian soybeans after claiming they were contaminated.
 To try to counter Chinese influence, Brazilian producers are working with American growers to diversify their buyers. American soybean producers organized a joint trade mission with Mato Grosso farmers in December to India, another huge potential growth market. 
 The Chinese want to connect directly with Brazilian farmers, bypassing the multinational grain merchants. While they have yet to make a major purchase of cropland in Brazil, they are looking to invest in improved facilities and upgrade the antiquated rail system.
 China began looking overseas for more soybean supplies in the mid-1990s, when the scope of its land and water problems became clearer. Beijing has also chosen to use more of its arable farmland to grow fruits and vegetables, crops that make better use of China's cheap labor and scarcer water supplies to generate higher returns on the export market.
 In northern China, where soybeans traditionally have been grown, water tables are dropping at a rate of 3 to 10 feet a year, according to Wu Aimin, a researcher with the China Groundwater Information Center in Beijing.
 ''It takes a thousand tons of water to produce one ton of grain,'' said Lester R. Brown, president of the Earth Policy Institute, an environmental research and advocacy group. ''So the most efficient way to import water is in the form of grain.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: A truck loaded with soybeans near Rondonopolis, Brazil. Countries with vast arable land, especially Brazil, are racing to meet demand in China. (Photo by Lalo de Almeida for The New York Times)(pg. C10)Chart: ''The Tradewinds of Soybeans''In just over a decade, China has become the world's biggest importer of soybeans . . .World's net soybean importersGraph tracks world's net soybean importers (China, European Union, rest of world, Japan, S. Korea and Taiwan) from 1995 through projected 2008.. . . and Brazil's rapid growth in total soybean exports has challenged the United States.World's net soybean exportersGraph tracks world's net soybean exporters (Brazil, United States, Argentina and rest of the world) from 1995 through projected 2008.Last year, Brazil became China's biggest supplier.Soybean exports to ChinaGraph tracks Soybean exports to China for United States and Brazil from 2001 to 2006.China is by far the biggest destination for United States and Brazilian soybeans.Top destinations of U.S. and Brazilian soybean exportsUnited StatesMEXICOChinaJAPANTAIWANINDONESIABrazilSPAINNETHGERMANYITALYChinaFor the 2005-06 marketing year(Sources by Food and Agricultural Policy Research Institute, Iowa State University
U.S. Department of Agriculture
Brazilian Ministry of Industry and Government
 Brazilian Association of Vegetable Oil Industries)(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); MEATS (90%); BIOFUELS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); MEALS & FEEDS MARKETS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); LIVESTOCK FEED (78%); TRENDS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); PORK (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (77%); MAMMALS (77%); POULTRY (77%); RAIN FORESTS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (76%); GRAIN MARKETS (76%); BIOMASS (75%); AGRICULTURE (75%); ETHANOL (74%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); ALCOHOLS (74%); ANIMAL FOODS (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (70%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%) Soybeans; International Trade and World Market; Soybeans

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (59%); IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (57%) Alexei Barrionuevo

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (98%); JAPAN (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (59%) China; Brazil; Mato Grosso (Brazil); Latin America

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2007



120 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Wildlife Smugglers Test Their Skills, Even at the Airport

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 1 

 BODY:
Somewhere amid the rolling suitcases, plastic baggies filled with lip gloss, laptops, skis and other sundry items streaming through Los Angeles International Airport, there are, occasionally, rare butterflies, elephant tusks, sea turtle eggs and, in one case, a pair of pygmy monkeys, stuffed down the pants of an incoming passenger.
 Wildlife smuggling is the nation's second-largest black market, just behind narcotics, accounting for $8 billion to $10 billion a year in sales, said Joseph O. Johns, the chief of the environmental crimes section in the United States attorney's office in Los Angeles. 
Its physical spot on the map makes California a prime spot for catching people who kill, smuggle or do other untoward things with rare species and exotic plants. 
 ''California is the most populous state in the nation and one of the busiest international ports,'' said Roy Torres, a special agent with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. ''Between LAX and the Los Angeles harbor and the San Francisco harbor, there are major ports of entry where tremendous amounts of products are smuggled into and out of the country.'' 
 Armed with federal laws and international treaties that govern wildlife, Mr. Johns's bureau, which has grown from one prosecutor to six in the last eight years, prosecutes poaching cases and those involving the illegal importation of rare animals and plants, and the killing of endangered species. Last year, a Japanese man who trafficked in Queen Alexandra's birdwings, one of the largest butterflies in the world, was arrested, as were four people accused of wheeling and dealing in endangered dragon fish. 
 In 2002, a Palm Springs man was arrested on charges related to the smuggling of two Asian leopard cats into the airport in a backpack. His traveling companion was arrested when large birds of paradise came flying out of his luggage; also in the luggage were other birds stuffed into women's stockings and 50 rare orchid bulbs. Two lesser slow lorises, also known as pygmy monkeys, were stuffed into his underwear. 
 ''It was a shockingly hilarious visual,'' said Mr. Johns, who has a deep personal interest in conservation. ''But if you think about the trauma those little primates went through. I mean 18 hours on a trip from Asia,'' undetected by flight attendants, who, as Mr. Johns noted, ''don't probably stare at men's crotches'' in search of illegal imports.
 Coming soon is the indictment of a man accused of smuggling reptiles from South Asia in his prosthetic leg. ''It is a really good case,'' Mr. Johns said. 
 While many people who bring in rare or exotic animals keep them as pets, often as part of a menagerie of endangered species, he said, most of them have business on the mind. 
 Rare and exotic fish are often sold to dealers or individual aquarium enthusiasts. The man with the butterflies sold two for $8,500, according to his indictment. (He had also offered the endangered giant swallowtail, a Jamaican butterfly, for sale.)
 Buyers throughout the world also create a market for animal parts used as aphrodisiacs or food. For example, Mr. Johns said, snake heads ''are highly sought after in our large Korean community.'' 
 Among his unit's more unusual seizures, he cited a large collection of elephant tusks, bear bile that a high-priced prostitute arranged to have mailed from China and a monkey flown from Vietnam in the defendant's purse that was apparently destined for a stew. ''We have pictures of that thing cowering,'' Mr. Johns said. 
 Once an animal is taken from the wild, it generally cannot be returned to its place of origin, for fear of disease, and is often placed in a local zoo, where the chances of long-term survival can be problematic. 
 Occasionally, poachers are part of a broader criminal enterprise. Earlier this year, a pastor from the Bay Area Family Church, Holy Spirit Association for Unification of World Christianity, pleaded guilty to a role in a scheme to harvest baby leopard sharks from San Francisco Bay for selling. The sharks are highly sought by aquarium enthusiasts.
 Mr. Torres, who investigated the case, said poachers connected to the church had stumbled upon a pupping spot in the bay, where they had fished for the sharks for a decade.
 The proceeds from the poaching operations, he said, were used to finance church ministries, including a program that took members out to sea to teach them ''ocean ethics, which seemed rather paradoxical.'' 
 Besides violating international treaties and United States laws, the importing of non-indigenous wildlife poses other threats.
 ''You might understand why we don't want piranhas released in the Mississippi River,'' Mr. Johns said.
 And few people wish for the job of removing monkeys from underwear.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Elephant tusks are among items that people have tried to smuggle onto airplanes and that have been confiscated by federal authorities.
 The Los Angeles Zoo is home to a Komodo dragon, Modo, which was confiscated from smugglers in 1998. (Photographs by Axel Koester for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (93%); ANIMAL POACHING & TRAFFICKING (91%); SMUGGLING (91%); WILDLIFE (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); MAMMALS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (89%); ANIMALS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); PRIMATES (89%); ARRESTS (89%); AIRLINES (78%); OCEANOGRAPHY (77%); FISHES (77%); INDICTMENTS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); CATS (74%); HARBORS & PORTS (73%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (73%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (73%); WILD CATS (72%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (50%) Animals; Endangered and Extinct Species; Smuggling; Flowers and Plants; Black Markets; Poaching; Airlines and Airplanes; Airports

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (56%)

PERSON: Jennifer Steinhauer

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) California

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2007



121 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Newark on Time on Budget, But a Fiscal Crisis Looms

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

DATELINE: NEWARK, April 5 

 BODY:
When the Municipal Council approves the 2007 budget later this month, there is sure to be a burst of mutual acclaim among council members and the mayor for putting together a $720 million spending plan that was passed on time and without a tax increase. 
 This is, after all, a city that usually passes its budgets after the fiscal year has expired and the money has been spent. 
''I think we deserve a lot of credit considering the trickery and gimmickry and smoke and mirrors of the past,'' said Ronald C. Rice, a councilman who oversees the budget hearings. But the congratulatory handshakes will almost immediately be challenged by the harsh reality that Newark is facing a crisis unseen since the 1970s.
 Over the next few months, City Hall must find ways to fill a $180 million shortfall in the 2008 budget, a hole that equals about a quarter of the city's annual expenditures. ''I don't think people realize that we're about to enter a financial freefall,'' Mayor Cory A. Booker said. ''You can only squeeze so much blood from stone before you are forced to do some draconian things.''
 To prepare for the rough road ahead, officials have put together a three-year budget plan, something state officials say they have never seen before from a New Jersey municipality. Newark officials have been traveling the region with a presentation that lays out the problem to corporate executives and economists in the hope of enlisting help -- pro bono, of course. 
 In an effort to ease the shock to residents, the mayor will also begin holding a kaffeeklatsch in various homes to explain the city's predicament. The city has also put the budget -- all 400 pages -- on the Internet. 
 Although Mr. Booker said he hoped to wring out tens of millions in savings by leaving vacancies unfilled and increasing government efficiency, he also said that painful tactics like layoffs and library closings were not out of the question. ''I think it's important to be upfront with people about the severe state of peril we're in,'' he said.
 The seeds of this looming crisis were planted in 2002, when the administration of Sharpe James and the Council decided to use a $400 million settlement from the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey to plug shortfalls in the city's operating budget. Only $120 million remains -- Mr. Booker is using $115 million to close the 2007 gap -- and when that runs out in three years, the city could find itself with a $240 million problem. (Bridging that chasm through taxation alone, officials warn, would require doubling the city's property tax rate.)
 Fiscal watchdogs have long warned the city that it was ignoring reality by treating the Port Authority money like limitless manna. ''They've become highly dependent on revenue from a source that is going to evaporate,'' said Edith Behr, an analyst at Moody's Investor Service, which downgraded Newark's bond rating in 2005 after the city failed to pass a budget that year and could not send out tax bills. Like nearly every municipality in New Jersey, Newark is suffering the effects of a decade-long pension holiday, sanctioned by the state, that allowed the city to sharply reduce its contributions to a fund for public workers. Next year Newark will have to spend an additional $30 million on pension and other employee benefits and $40 million in back pay and salary increases for firefighters and police officers as a result of contracts negotiated in recent months. 
 Mr. Booker blames the James administration for much of the city's financial hardship. He said that the administration failed to set aside money for outstanding tax appeals and litigation. He also criticized Mr. James for giving superior officers in the Police Department a 4 percent pay raise, making it all but certain that other police and fire unions, whose contracts expired two years ago, would expect the same. He said the city also failed to stow away money for retroactive pay increases that resulted from those contracts. 
 ''We inherited a city whose finances should have been declared a national disaster area,'' Mr. Booker said. 
 Richard Monteilh, the previous business administrator, rejected suggestions that the city's finances were mismanaged and said he presented the current administration a plan he insisted would have helped them avoid the current crisis. ''You have to shrink the municipal payroll and grow the revenue base,'' he said, adding, ''The skyline should be full of cranes right now.''
 Bo Kemp, the current business administrator, said that economic development can take years to bear fruit -- so in the meantime, he plans to start trimming fat at the edges. He estimated that the city could save as much as $100 million by improving the way it collects hotel and parking taxes, streamlining the city's purchasing system and tweaking the bureaucracy. ''It's yeoman's work, but I think we can do it,'' he said. 
 But that does not leave many options for bridging the remaining $80 million gap, at least not politically palatable ones. City Hall can raise taxes, eliminate jobs or hope the state hands over more cash, a situation that seems unlikely given the state's own ailing finances. 
 If history is any guide, Mr. Kemp might be forced to take a path similar to the one traveled by Thomas A. Banker, the budget director and assistant business administrator in the 1970s. The budget shortfall became so severe that Wall Street locked the city out of the bond market, and the municipal work force shrank to 4,000 from 7,000, mostly through a decade of attrition. 
 In the depth of the crisis in 1978, Newark police officers protested layoffs by standing at the city's main entry points and handing drivers fliers that said, ''Welcome to Fear City.'' 
 Three decades later, Mr. Banker, now a consultant and professor of public affairs at Columbia University, chuckled as he recalled how angry officers used his picture for target practice. ''I was the most hated person in the city,'' he said in an interview. ''I wish Bo or Cory the best of luck, because there are no popular choices.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); APPROVALS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); TAX LAW (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); LAYOFFS (66%); PORT AUTHORITIES (65%); CLOSINGS (61%) Budgets and Budgeting; Finances; Taxation

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (62%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (62%)

PERSON: Sharpe James; Cory A (Mayor) Booker; Andrew Jacobs

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (95%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Newark (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2007



122 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 100 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Albany: Unemployment Services End

BYLINE: Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:
The State Department of Labor said yesterday that the unemployment insurance services provided at 250 Schermerhorn Street in Brooklyn and at 138-60 Barclay Avenue in Flushing, Queens, have been phased out. It said claimants were sent three notification letters before the phaseout. The department said those people who relied on either of the offices are encouraged to use its telephone or Internet claims systems. The department also said that it has expanded outreach to Chinese speakers, including making more interpreters available. The toll-free phone number for claims questions is (888) 209-8124. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%) Labor; Unemployment Insurance

PERSON: Anthony Ramirez

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (89%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2007



123 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: Seaports May Provide Blueprint for Leasing Toll Roads

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
Resistance to the possibility that New Jersey will lease its largest toll roads to big financial firms is based largely on the fear that those investors would sharply raise prices to maximize their profits.
 While those concerns are worth considering, opponents of privatizing -- or ''monetizing,'' as Gov. Jon S. Corzine puts it -- the New Jersey Turnpike and the Garden State Parkway would do well to look at the ports in Newark and Elizabeth and on Staten Island for a glimpse at how public agencies have learned to work with such firms.
In the past year, investment companies and other financial firms have taken over or hope to take over the leases on three of the five ship terminals owned by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. In all three cases, companies with long track records in the shipping industry have been the sellers. 
 The shift in ownership from traditional shipping companies to financial firms -- pure investors -- at the ports is emblematic of Wall Street's broad interest in big public assets, including airports, lotteries and toll roads.
 Ports, like toll roads, are viewed as comparatively stable investments. In addition, competition is limited and revenue often grows steadily over many years. And current interest rates are relatively low, making it easier to finance such purchases, which can run into billions of dollars.
 ''It's all tied together,'' said Cherian George, chief of the transportation group at Fitch Ratings, a bond-rating agency. ''The value of these long-term assets and leases is that there is limited acreage at all these ports and the growth is significant,'' propelled by technology advances, while ''building new ports is difficult.''
 In February, A.I.G. Global Investment Group, an arm of the insurance giant A.I.G., which has never run a port terminal, bought leases to the Port of Newark terminal. The Ontario Teachers Pension Plan Board is awaiting approval to take over the lease to operate a terminal at Howland Hook, on Staten Island, from Orient Overseas International Limited, a shipping conglomerate.
 And last month, a division of Deutsche Bank, Germany's largest bank, agreed to buy Maher Terminals, which runs the operations at the Port of Elizabeth in New Jersey and the Port of Prince Rupert in British Columbia.
 A.I.G. and other financial firms that are getting into the port business dismiss claims that they will simply raise prices to maximize their profits. After all, they say, that would be bad for business. They also say that they plan to reinvest in their businesses for the same reason -- to increase the value of their assets.
 Still, the Port Authority, which owns the ports in New York and New Jersey, is taking steps to guarantee such reinvestment. 
 In return for its approval of A.I.G.'s purchase, from DP World, one of the largest port operators, the authority negotiated a $10 million payment from A.I.G. to help recoup the cost of an overpass it built from the port to a nearby train depot. A.I.G. also agreed to spend more than $40 million to improve operations at its Port of Newark terminal.
 Similarly, the Port Authority is asking for $54 million in commitments before it will agree to Orient Overseas International Limited's sale to the Ontario pension fund.
 The Port Authority views these payments as a way to ensure that the new owners continue to reinvest in their terminals and do not resell the leases in a few years for a quick profit. 
 ''We think good things will come out of having deep-pocketed investors'' operate the terminals, said Anthony Coscia, chairman of the Port Authority. ''But we have just spent billions of dollars to create common infrastructure, like dredging the harbor. To protect what we believe to be the public interest, we have to be certain that they make us comfortable in terms of operations and security, and they have robust capital plans.''
 Though leasing toll roads is common in Europe and Asia, only a handful of lease deals have been signed in the United States, most notably in Chicago and Indiana. But ports authorities have worked with a small group of private operators for decades. That is one reason it has been easier for financial firms to enter this industry.
 ''Out of all the public infrastructure assets, the ports is already the most private,'' said Jeffrey D. Holt, vice president for public sector and infrastructure banking of Goldman Sachs.
 Since leasing toll roads is a relatively new concept in the United States, New Jersey, assuming it decides to do so, is likely to seek to protect drivers, truckers and toll collectors. It may, for instance, cap toll increases by linking them to the rate of inflation or another economic indicator. It may also require the buyers to agree to certain levels of service, like plowing the roads every hour during a snowstorm.
 With such promises, the state can help guarantee that drivers barely notice the change in ownership.
 In some cases, service at the ports may hardly change, either. The division of Deutsche Bank that plans to buy Maher Terminals will retain Maher to continue running the Port of Elizabeth operation.
 ''From a user's standpoint, it makes very little difference who operates the facility,'' said Kurt Forsgren, director of public finance ratings at Standard & Poor's. ''The question is how well they can be operated.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (95%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (87%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); BONDS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (76%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (76%); APPROVALS (75%); INSURANCE (72%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); CREDIT BUREAUS (64%); GLOBALIZATION (62%) Ships and Shipping ; Privatization; Ports; Roads and Traffic; Tolls; Ships and Shipping 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (70%); ORIENT OVERSEAS INTERNATIONAL LTD (63%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Port Authority of New York and New Jersey

TICKER: 0316 (HKSE) (63%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (70%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (70%); NAICS488999 ALL OTHER SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR TRANSPORTATION (63%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (63%); NAICS488320 MARINE CARGO HANDLING (63%); NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (63%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (63%); SIC4789 TRANSPORTATION SERVICES, NEC (63%); SIC4731 ARRANGEMENT OF TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT & CARGO (63%); SIC4491 MARINE CARGO HANDLING (63%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (63%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (58%) Ken Belson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (67%) UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (71%); CANADA (68%) New Jersey; New Jersey Turnpike ; Garden State Parkway

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2007



124 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 295 words

HEADLINE: Former Social Worker Accused Of Stealing Millions From City

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE

 BODY:
An unemployed Brooklyn man was arrested and charged Wednesday with illegally transferring more than $3.6 million from the city comptroller's office. He used the money to pay for jewelry, cellphone bills and insurance premiums, the Manhattan district attorney's office said yesterday. 
 It is unclear how Tracy Ball, 49, a former social worker who never worked for the city, was able to access a JPMorgan Chase bank account used by the comptroller's office for workers' compensation claims.
However, prosecutors said that from March 2006 to last month, Mr. Ball had made more than 600 electronic transfers from the account to pay for purchases from a retailer named Jewelry Television, based in Knoxville, Tenn. 
 The company became suspicious about the volume of his purchases and his bulk orders, the district attorney's office said. Within a span of about 12 minutes, for example, he bought 10 pairs of a single type of diamond earring; 15 of a single type of diamond necklace; and 15 of a single type of gold necklace, it said. The next day, he ordered 20 of a single type of diamond bracelet. Jewelry Television alerted JPMorgan Chase, which contacted the comptroller's office, prosecutors said.
 All in all, the retailer shipped more than 500 orders of watches, bracelets, necklaces and other items to Mr. Ball to four addresses, including his Brooklyn apartment, his companion's home in Brooklyn, an address in the Bronx and a Manhattan men's shelter where Mr. Ball had been employed as a social worker. 
 More than 100 pieces of jewelry have been recovered. At Mr. Ball's home, investigators also found two large plasma television sets, $35,000 in cash and three SUVs.
 Mr. Ball faces charges of first-degree grand larceny and was arraigned last night in Manhattan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (90%); FINE JEWELRY (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMPLOYERS EMPLOYEE LIABILITY COVERAGE (90%); ARRESTS (78%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (72%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (70%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (69%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (50%) Workers' Compensation Insurance; Robberies and Thefts

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Morgan, J P, & Co

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%)

PERSON: Tracy Ball; Jennifer 8 Lee

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2007



125 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 241 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Job Numbers Are Stronger Than Expected

BYLINE: By REUTERS; Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 6 

 BODY:
The U.S. economy added a stronger-than-expected 180,000 new jobs in March, largely because of a bounceback in construction hiring, and job growth was stronger in the two prior months than previously thought, the Labor Department said on Friday. 
 The intently awaited March employment report painted a stronger picture of the U.S. job market than anticipated and included a surprising decline in the unemployment rate to 4.4 percent from 4.5 percent in February.
It was the lowest monthly unemployment rate since last October, when it also was at 4.4 percent.
 Wall Street analysts had forecast that a more modest 120,000 jobs would be created last month and that the unemployment rate would tick upward to 4.6 percent rather than decline.
 The government also revised up its estimate for jobs created in January and February - by 16,000 each month - to 162,000 and 113,000 respectively.
 It said that there were 56,000 construction jobs added in March, a striking turnaround from February when 61,000 of these jobs were lost, some of them possibly due to cold weather. In addition, there were twice as many new retail jobs added in March - 35,900 versus 17,400 in February.
 The relatively strong jobs report may help counter some other recent signs of economic weakness like soft durable goods orders that had led financial market participants to speculate the Federal Reserve might have to consider reducing interest rates at some point this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (92%); JOB CREATION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); DURABLE GOODS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2007



126 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: How Supply-Side Economics Trickled Down

BYLINE: By Bruce Bartlett. 
Bruce Bartlett, an official under Presidents Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush, is the author of ''Impostor: How , George W. Bush Bankrupted America and Betrayed the Reagan Legacy.''

DATELINE: GREAT FALLS, Va. 

 BODY:
AS one who was present at the creation of ''supply-side economics'' back in the 1970s, I think it is long past time that the phrase be put to rest. It did its job, creating a new consensus among economists on how to look at the national economy. But today it has become a frequently misleading and meaningless buzzword that gets in the way of good economic policy.
 Today, supply-side economics has become associated with an obsession for cutting taxes under any and all circumstances. No longer do its advocates in Congress and elsewhere confine themselves to cutting marginal tax rates -- the tax on each additional dollar earned -- as the original supply-siders did. Rather, they support even the most gimmicky, economically dubious tax cuts with the same intensity. 
 The original supply-siders suggested that some tax cuts, under very special circumstances, might actually raise federal revenues. For example, cutting the capital gains tax rate might induce an unlocking effect that would cause more gains to be realized, thus causing more taxes to be paid on such gains even at a lower rate. 
 But today it is common to hear tax cutters claim, implausibly, that all tax cuts raise revenue. Last year, President Bush said, ''You cut taxes and the tax revenues increase.'' Senator John McCain told National Review magazine last month that ''tax cuts, starting with Kennedy, as we all know, increase revenues.'' Last week, Steve Forbes endorsed Rudolph Giuliani for the White House, saying, ''He's seen the results of supply-side economics firsthand -- higher revenues from lower taxes.'' 
 This is a simplification of what supply-side economics was all about, and it threatens to undermine the enormous gains that have been made in economic theory and policy over the last 30 years. Perhaps the best way of preventing that from happening is to kill the phrase ''supply-side economics'' and give it a decent burial.
 It's important to remember that at the time supply-side economics came into being, Keynesian economics dominated macroeconomic thinking and economic policy in Washington. Among the beliefs held by the Keynesians of that era were these: budget deficits stimulate economic growth; the means by which the government raises revenue is essentially irrelevant economically; government spending and tax cuts affect the economy in exactly the same way through their impact on aggregate spending; personal savings is bad for economic growth; monetary policy is impotent; and inflation is caused by low unemployment, among other things.
 These beliefs led to many bad economic policies. In particular, they lay at the root of stagflation, that awful combination of high inflation and slow growth that bedeviled policy makers in the 1970s. Based on insights derived from the Nobel-winning economists Robert Mundell, Milton Friedman, James Buchanan and Friedrich Hayek, the supply-siders developed a new program based on tight money to stop inflation and cuts in marginal tax rates to stimulate growth.
 As the staff economist for Representative Jack Kemp, a Republican of New York, I helped devise the tax plan he co-sponsored with Senator William Roth, a Delaware Republican. Kemp-Roth was intended to bring down the top statutory federal income tax rate to 50 percent from 70 percent and the bottom rate to 10 percent from 14 percent. We modeled this proposal on the Kennedy-Johnson tax cut of 1964, which lowered the top rate to 70 percent from 91 percent and the bottom rate to 14 percent from 20 percent.
 We believed that our tax plan would stimulate the economy to such a degree that the federal government would not lose $1 of revenue for every $1 of tax cut. Studies of the 1964 tax cut showed that about a third of it was recouped, and we expected similar results. Thus, contrary to common belief, neither Jack Kemp nor William Roth nor Ronald Reagan ever said that there would be no revenue loss associated with an across-the-board cut in tax rates. We just thought it wouldn't lose as much revenue as predicted by the standard revenue forecasting models, which were based on Keynesian principles.
 Furthermore, our belief that we might get back a third of the revenue loss was always a long-run proposition. Even the most rabid supply-sider knew we would lose $1 of revenue for $1 of tax cut in the short term, because it took time for incentives to work and for people to change their behavior. When President Reagan proposed a version of Kemp-Roth in 1981, every revenue estimate produced by the Treasury showed large revenue losses from its enactment, based on standard models. The independent Congressional Budget Office produced figures that were almost identical.
 Moreover, we were adamant that only permanent cuts in marginal tax rates would stimulate the economy. We thought that temporary tax cuts, tax rebates, tax credits and such were economically worthless, and we strongly opposed them.
 Today, hardly any economist believes what the Keynesians believed in the 1970s and most accept the basic ideas of supply-side economics -- that incentives matter, that high tax rates are bad for growth, and that inflation is fundamentally a monetary phenomenon. Consequently, there is no longer any meaningful difference between supply-side economics and mainstream economics.
 There is no question in my mind that we never could have overcome the stagflation of the 1970s as quickly or with as little pain as we did without the supply-side idea. But supply-side economics has done its job, just as Keynesian economics did in the 1930s. Those who campaign as its champions are fighting a fight long won -- and it is time for supply-side rhetoric to go, with its essential truths embodied in mainstream economics and its perversions discarded for good.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (70%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); MONETARY POLICY (50%) United States Economy; Taxation; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; United States Economy

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (74%); JOHN MCCAIN (55%); RUDY GIULIANI (50%) Bruce Bartlett; Ronald Wilson (1911-2004) Reagan; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2007



127 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1666 words

HEADLINE: New Urgency In Debating Health Care

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
Since Hillary Rodham Clinton's effort to overhaul the nation's medical system was rejected in 1994, most big employers have stayed out of the debate on health care reform.
 But with their medical costs ballooning, top executives of large companies are starting to speak up again -- and many are calling for a national approach to fixing health care. Few advocate a wholesale shift to government-directed medicine, but most are seeking broad changes in the employer-subsidized health system, which they regard as unsustainable in its current form.
Business executives are motivated in large part by health insurance premiums that are rising much faster than inflation, adding to their costs at a time when many are facing more intense competition from abroad, where companies rely on government-supported health care systems largely financed by taxes. A 2006 study by the Kaiser Family Foundation and Hewitt Associates found that premiums in the United States had risen about 87 percent since 2000. 
 ''Five years from now this problem will have to be cured, or the competitiveness of the United States will be dramatically affected,'' said J. Randall MacDonald, senior vice president for human resources at I.B.M. 
 But companies are by no means speaking with one voice. Everybody's problem -- the growing cost of health coverage -- can be felt differently depending on the size of a company and whether it has promised health benefits to retirees.
 Older companies, for example, are more likely to welcome government help on coverage for workers who leave before they are eligible for Medicare and may find they cannot afford insurance. But Silicon Valley technology companies that do not have or need retiree coverage are wary of new taxpayer-financed subsidies.
 The health care debate is heating up as candidates polish their positions for next year's presidential primaries, and as Democrats in Congress assert their newfound power.
 In general, employers ''are more interested in reform today than at any time since the Clinton effort'' in the early 1990s, said Robert S. Galvin, global health care and policy director at General Electric, which provides health benefits for 460,000 employees and dependents and 240,000 retirees and dependents.
 The surge of interest, Mr. Galvin said, ''is driven by compounding health cost increases at three times the general inflation rate, plus the entrance of Wal-Mart and other retailers'' that are beginning to feel the pain of out-of-control increases in costs. 
 Wal-Mart Stores introduced lower-cost coverage for its huge work force last year, after state officials and editorial writers criticized the numbers of Wal-Mart employees on state Medicaid rolls.
 Many retailers, with large staffs of low-paid, temporary and part-time workers, would welcome a larger government role.
 ''The way it's going, there will be 75 million uninsured in another 10 years,'' said James D. Sinegal, chief executive of Costco Wholesale, which subsidizes health care for 81,000 of its 100,000 workers in the United States. ''The federal government has to lend some assistance.''
 Mr. Sinegal said he had agreed to support an unlikely coalition of businesses and labor unions that recently called for ''achieving a new American health care system by 2012.'' The group, the Better Health Care Together campaign, includes Wal-Mart, AT&T, Intel and Kelly Services, the temporary-staffing company, as well as the Service Employees International Union and the Communications Workers of America.
 ''The system is going to break,'' warned Carl T. Camden, president and chief executive of Kelly Services. ''You can only put so many uninsured people through the emergency rooms before employers stop offering coverage.''
 Indeed, a bill proposed by Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, would scale back the role of employers while requiring individuals and companies to share in the costs. President Bush's proposal would treat high-cost health care plans paid by employers as wages subject to income tax, and would also offer a new tax deduction to people who buy insurance on their own.
 Economists say that employers would raise wages if they did not have to pay for employee health care. The Treasury would stand to gain $140 billion a year in personal income taxes if the benefits were treated as wages, said Len Burman, director of the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center in Washington. There would be about $70 billion more in additional payroll taxes due on those wages, he said.
 But taxes would have to go up to keep the health care system functioning. 
 Leslie Dach, executive vice president for corporate affairs and government relations at Wal-Mart, said that the company's ''message to elected officials is: 'The time to act is now.' '' Mr. Dach, a public relations specialist based in Washington and a frequent adviser to Democratic presidential candidates, joined Wal-Mart last year.
 While employers generally agree that steps must be taken to control health care costs, they are divided over whether or not the solutions should come from the government.
 ''That is the elephant in the room,'' said Mr. Galvin of General Electric.
 Craig R. Barrett, the chairman of Intel, another participant in the Better Health Care Together campaign, is skeptical about a new government role. He said the private sector could do the best job at improving efficiency in the system.
 Corporate purchasers could use their buying power, he said, to insist on technological aids like electronic prescriptions, remote monitoring of patients with chronic illnesses and electronic health records for Americans.
 Companies like General Motors argue that government agencies, which spend about half of the $2 trillion in annual health spending, should join with employers in pushing for changes to lower costs.
 ''Working with the government as a fellow purchaser can accomplish a great deal to help improve our health care system,'' said Bruce E. Bradley, director of health care strategy and public policy at G.M., which provides health care for 1.1 million people, including more than 500,000 retirees and their spouses.
 Michael J. Critelli, chairman of Pitney Bowes, the business services company, says he backs changes that emphasize preventive medicine. ''Any health plan, whether employer, government or private insurance needs to invest its most significant dollars in incentives for people to take good care of themselves,'' he said.
 He added: ''The spiraling cost of health care is a result of an explosive growth in chronic diseases like diabetes, cardiovascular conditions and asthma. The health care debate needs to be focused on the core issue: making Americans healthier.''
 By providing clinics, exercise and other wellness programs as well as low-cost or free drugs for certain types of patients, he said, annual cost increases for Pitney Bowes employees have fallen into the low single digits over the last 15 years. That is well below the double-digit percentage increases that many companies have experienced.
 Neither G.M. nor Wal-Mart favors a government-based central payer system. But older companies and their unions are very interested in Congressional measures that would allow early retirees under age 65 to qualify for Medicare or to buy into the Medicare program, with help from their former employers, said Alan Reuther, legislative director of the United Automobile Workers.
 General Motors has far different concerns, of course, than Wal-Mart, a retailer that covers more than one million employees and dependents in the United States but does not provide a retiree health benefit.
 Another set of issues divides large companies from small businesses, which employ 50 percent of working Americans. Their owners worry that in some states they may be forced to spend for coverage of young workers with little interest in health coverage.
 ''The premium keeps going up and, even worse, the insurance companies keep decreasing the benefits,'' said Steve Caughran, who owns three small companies in Fresno, Calif. One, a Quiznos fast-food restaurant, has 14 uninsured high school and college students who work part time.
 Requiring employers to cover workers who lack health insurance will hardly correct the forces pushing up costs, like expensive new drugs, insurance fraud and inefficient state programs, Mr. Caughran argues.
 Mr. Camden of Kelly Services notes that the majority of the 45 million Americans who do not have health insurance have jobs. He argues that many of these workers are essential to keeping the United States economy competitive. 
 ''In the next decade or two, manufacturing is going to steadily decline,'' he said. ''Employment will come from the entrepreneurial, scientific parts of the economy,'' including many who work as independent contractors and temporary employees.
 Part of the solution should be to ''separate health care from employer sponsorship,'' Mr. Camden said. ''The employer-provided health care system is just dead, although some people haven't recognized it as dead yet.''
 Similarly, Andrew L. Stern, president of the Service Employees International Union, criticizes the current employer-sponsored system as ''a relic of the industrial economy.''
 Mr. Camden listed possible remedies as an ''employment-based'' withholding tax, matched by employers as in Social Security, with Medicare and Medicaid expanded to cover the unemployed. 
 But most big companies are not ready to give up on their health care obligations. ''Regardless of who takes the lead, we collectively as a national society have to consolidate around three or four different ideas,'' Mr. MacDonald of I.B.M. said.
 He called for a national debate on such topics as maintaining existing employer-subsidized health care, with ''some level of umbrella coverage over that, some level of a single payer system.'' 
 ''A lot of positioning is going on now,'' he said. ''The reality is that changes are inevitable, I think sooner rather than later.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: JAMES D. SINEGAL -- Chief executive of Costco Wholesale (Photo by Peter Yates for The New York Times)
CARL T. CAMDEN -- President and chief executive of Kelly Services
MICHAEL J. CRITELLI -- Chairman of Pitney Bowes (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)
Dr. ROBERT S. GALVIN -- Global health care and policy director at General Electric
 J. RANDALL MacDONALD -- Senior vice president for human resources at I.B.M. (pg. C4)Chart: ''Divided on Health''Large private employers are split over the role of government in financing benefits for early retirees, according to a 2006 study by the Kaiser Family Foundation and Hewitt Associates.Should the federal government play a larger role in financing health benefits for pre-65 retirees?46% = YES54% = NOOf the 46 percent of employers that said ''Yes,'' some supported the following government actions:Expand tax-favored funding opportunities for employers = 72%Allow tax-free transfer of individuals' retirement funds to pay for health care = 66%Allow early retirees to buy into Medicare and pay full cost = 61%Cover catastrophic costs for retirees = 49%Reduce the age of Medicare eligibility = 32%Study based on the responses of 302 employers to an online questionnaire. (pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (87%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); MEDICARE (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (75%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (75%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (71%); RETAILERS (63%); MEDICAID (58%); WRITERS (50%) Medicine and Health; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Health Insurance and Managed Care; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2008; Medicine and Health; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: AON HEWITT (83%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%); WAL-MART STORES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Kaiser Family Foundation; Hewitt Associates; Better Health Care Together (Orgn); Costco Wholesale Corp; Kelly Services Inc; Pitney Bowes Inc; General Electric Co; International Business Machines Corp

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%); WMT (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (83%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (83%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (51%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (51%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); JAMES SINEGAL (71%); CARL T CAMDEN (64%) James D Sinegal; Carl T Camden; Michael J Critelli; Robert S (Dr) Galvin; J Randall Macdonald; Milt Freudenheim

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2007



128 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 383 words

HEADLINE: No Recess from Bad Appointments

 BODY:
President Bush resorted to an old political trick this week, using recess appointments to evade Senate confirmation votes that he was sure to lose. All three are extraordinarily bad appointments -- and three more reminders of how Mr. Bush's claims of wanting to work with Congress's Democratic leadership are just empty words. 
 The most bitterly resented but least important appointment sent Sam Fox, a major Republican donor, to Belgium as ambassador. Mr. Fox contributed $50,000 to Swift Boat Veterans for Truth, a group whose vicious ads during the 2004 campaign lied about Senator John Kerry's war record and helped win President Bush a second term. It is common for administrations to reward big donors with ambassadorships. But this appointment is a deliberate thumb in the eye of Senator Kerry and fellow Democrats who were poised to reject the nominee.
Of more importance was the appointment of Susan E. Dudley to the Office of Management and Budget, where she will review regulations from major federal agencies before they are issued. Ms. Dudley has made no secret of her hostility toward government regulation, criticizing everything from fuel economy standards for light trucks to a national drinking water standard for arsenic, arguing that the market will almost always suffice. This makes her just right for this administration but wrong for consumers and the environment. 
 Similarly, Andrew Biggs, the president's choice to be deputy commissioner of the Social Security Administration, is a champion of partially privatizing the program he is being sent to administer. The agency dispenses checks to beneficiaries and traditionally provides factual information on the state of the program. But under this president the agency has become increasingly politicized, using questionable arguments and projections to support Mr. Bush's drive for private accounts. As a lower ranking official in the agency, Mr. Biggs was in the thick of that politicization. His appointment is a sure sign that Mr. Bush intends to keep using the agency as a propaganda machine to push a privatization scheme that has little public support.
 With nominees of such dubious merit, it is no wonder that Mr. Bush resorted to an end run around the Senate. The American public will almost certainly pay the price. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); PRIVATIZATION (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); BUDGETS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (66%) Editorials; United States Foreign Service

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (83%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (82%) Office of Management and Budget ; Social Security Administration

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%) sam fox; susan e dudley; Andrew G Biggs

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); BELGIUM (88%) Belgium 

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2007



129 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: SCIENTISTS DETAIL CLIMATE CHANGES, POLES TO TROPICS

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER and ANDREW C. REVKIN; James Kanter reported from Brussels, and Andrew C. Revkin from New York.

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, April 6 

 BODY:
From the poles to the tropics, the earth's climate and ecosystems are already being shaped by the atmospheric buildup of greenhouse gases and face inevitable, possibly profound, alteration, the world's leading scientific panel on climate change said Friday.
 In its most detailed portrait of the effects of climate change driven by human activities, the panel predicted widening droughts in southern Europe and the Middle East, sub-Saharan Africa, the American Southwest and Mexico, and flooding that could imperil low-lying islands and the crowded river deltas of southern Asia. It stressed that many of the regions facing the greatest risks were among the world's poorest.
And it said that while limits on smokestack and tailpipe emissions could lower the long-term risks, vulnerable regions must adjust promptly to shifting weather patterns, climatic and coastal hazards, and rising seas.
 Without such adaptations, it said, a rise of 3 to 5 degrees Fahrenheit over the next century could lead to the inundation of coasts and islands inhabited by hundreds of millions of people. But if steady investments are made in seawalls and other coastal protections, vulnerability could be sharply reduced. 
 The group, the United Nations' Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, also noted that the climate shifts would benefit some regions -- leading to more rainfall and longer growing seasons in high latitudes, open Arctic seaways and fewer deaths from the cold.
 The 1,572-page report, finished here on Friday, was prepared by more than 200 scientists, and a 21-page summary was endorsed by officials from more than 120 countries, including the United States.
 The conclusions came after four days of revisions by scientists and then an often rancorous all-night debate with government officials. In a sign of shifting geopolitics on global warming, scientists who worked on the report criticized China for weakening some language in the summary, while they credited the United States, which had for years stressed uncertainty in the science, with playing a mostly constructive role. 
 The panel, which has tracked research on global warming since it was created under United Nations auspices in 1988, has sometimes been criticized for allowing governments to shape the summaries of its periodic reviews of climate science. 
 But by many accounts, it remains the closest thing to a barometer for tracking the level of scientific understanding of the causes and consequences of global warming. In February, the panel released its fourth summary of basic climate science, concluding with 90 percent certainty that humans were the main cause of warming since 1950. 
 The new report, focusing on the effects of warming, for the first time describes how species, water supplies, ice sheets and regional climate conditions are already responding to the global buildup of heat. While the report said that assessing the causes of regional climate and biological changes was particularly difficult, the authors concluded with ''high confidence'' -- about an 8 in 10 chance -- that human-caused warming ''over the last three decades has had a discernible influence on many physical and biological systems.''
 At a news conference here, Martin Parry, the co-chairman of the team that wrote the new report, said widespread effects were already measurable, with much more to come. 
 ''We're no longer arm-waving with models,'' he said. ''This is empirical information on the ground.''
 Reports from the panel are released only every half-decade or so, and this year's suite of three studies -- on basic science, the effects of warming, and options for cutting emissions -- are likely to guide policymakers for years to come. 
 The panel's reports are particularly influential in international talks over climate treaties, especially the Kyoto Protocol, whose binding limits on emissions expire in 2012. Those limits have been rejected by the United States and China. 
 The report also is expected to be discussed at a summit meeting of the Group of 8 industrial powers in Germany in June, when the European Union has said it plans to renew efforts to get the United States to do more to cut greenhouse gas emissions. 
 The report said that given the current buildup of carbon dioxide and other long-lived greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, temperatures and seas would inevitably rise for decades. The worst effects would be felt in regions that are mainly poor and already facing dangers from existing climate and coastal hazards. 
 ''It's the poorest of the poor in the world, and this includes poor people even in prosperous societies, who are going to be the worst hit,'' said Rajendra K. Pachauri, the chairman of the panel. ''People who are poor are least-equipped to be able to adapt to the impacts of climate change, and therefore in some sense this does become a global responsibility in my view.''
 Some authors said the report removed any doubt about the urgency of acting to curb emissions of greenhouse gases.
 ''The warnings are clear about the scale of the projected changes to the planet,'' said Bill Hare, an author of the report and a visiting scientist at the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research in Germany. ''Essentially there's going to be a mass extinction within the next 100 years unless climate change is limited,'' added Dr. Hare, who previously worked for Greenpeace. 
 ''These impacts have been known for many years, and are now seen with greater clarity in this report,'' he said. ''That clarity is perhaps the last warning we're going to get before we actually have to report in the next I.P.C.C. review that we're seeing the disaster unfolding.''
 James L. Connaughton, the chairman of the White House Council on Environmental Quality, said some of the findings in the report, particularly the prospect of intensifying coastal damage from rising seas, were ''of high concern,'' but noted the panel also foresaw benefits to agriculture in temperate regions as well.
 Over all, he said, the analysis reinforced the need of industrialized countries to foster economic growth in developing countries and thus help them to reduce their vulnerability to climate shocks. He said billions of dollars were already flowing in development assistance.
 Michael Oppenheimer, a climate scientist at Princeton and an author of the report, said it underlined the need to deal with climatic changes already under way.
 ''The actual outcome in terms of damages and ruined lives and costs depends heavily on the response -- the response of individuals to deal with the changes and governments to organize and anticipate and deal with this in advance,'' he said.
 The meeting here dragged on in a marathon session Thursday night before Dr. Pachauri emerged midmorning on Friday and stood on a blue armchair in front of reporters to announce that agreement had been reached between scientists and government officials over the final details of a 21-page summary. 
 Under pressure from nations including Russia, China and Saudi Arabia, the authors said, sections on coral damage and tropical storms were softened in the summary. They also got the authors to drop parts of an illustration showing how different emissions policies might limit damage. Officials from those countries argued that data in the report did not support the level of certainty expressed in the final draft.
 But some authors were not assuaged. The final document was ''much less quantified and much vaguer and much less striking than it could have been,'' said Stephane Hallegatte, a participant from France's International Center for Research on the Environment and Development. 
 Negotiations were also prolonged by European delegates' demand that the final report reflect the need to cut back on greenhouse gases -- and not just adapting to new conditions. 
 ''Adaptation will only work if climate change is not too large and not too fast,'' Mr. Hallegatte said. 
 Next month, the panel will release a report on options for limiting emissions of the greenhouse gases, and late in the year it will publish a final synthesis of its findings.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Martin Parry, the co-chairman of a scientific panel on climate change, presented a new report on global warming yesterday in Brussels. (Photo by Virginia Mayo/Associated Press)(pg. A5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (92%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (90%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); DROUGHT (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (87%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); WEATHER (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%); RESEARCH REPORTS (70%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (69%) Weather; Global Warming; Forecasts; Drought; Weather; Floods; Third World and Developing Countries; Air Pollution

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (82%) United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change

PERSON: James Kanter; Andrew C Revkin

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%) SOUTHWEST, USA (93%); EARTH (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); AFRICA (93%); BELGIUM (92%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (92%); ASIA (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%) Europe; Middle East; Africa; Southwestern States (US); Mexico; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2007



130 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 262 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:
Job Growth Surged and Wages Rose in March Wages climbed and job growth rose last month by the largest numbers this year, the Labor Department said, as strong consumer spending led to hiring in restaurants, bars, department stores and educational services. The unemployment rate fell to 4.4 percent from 4.5 percent. 
 BUSINESS DAY , PAGE C3China Complaint Called NearThe Bush administration appears close to filing a formal trade complaint against China, after months of prodding the Chinese government to crack down on pirated copies of films, music and software. PAGE C1Vonage Gets a ReprieveA federal court gave Vonage a reprieve shortly after a lower court barred it from enrolling new subscribers. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1At 96, a Writer Is DiscoveredWith publication of his memoir of a poor childhood in an English mill town, Harry Bernstein, above, has enjoyed ''a lot of exciting, interesting days.'' THE ARTS, PAGE B7Networks Condemn ImusThe radio and television networks that carry Don Imus's show deplored remarks he had made about the Rutgers women's basketball team. Mr. Imus apologized. THE ARTS, PAGE B7THIS WEEKENDKeeping the FaithPope Benedict XVI says re-Christianizing Europe is critical to the fate of the church and to the fate of the Continent itself. MAGAZINEThe Poetry of ExileThe Nobel Prize winner Derek Walcott's ''Selected Poems'' shows him as a man caught between two races and two worlds. BOOK REVIEWIt's Over, TonyWith the final season of ''The Sopranos'' beginning, Alessandra Stanley looks back. ARTS & LEISURE
 Drawing 

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Mike Mergen for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POETRY (74%); WRITERS (74%); RETAILERS (72%); BASKETBALL (70%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (69%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); NOBEL PRIZES (65%); AWARDS & PRIZES (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: VONAGE HOLDINGS CORP (57%)

TICKER: VG (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2007



131 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2063 words

HEADLINE: Even as Africa Hungers, Policy Slows Delivery of U.S. Food Aid

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

DATELINE: MULONDO, Zambia 

 BODY:
Traveling to school in wobbly dugout canoes, Munalula Muhau and her three cousins, 7- and 8-year-olds whose parents had died from AIDS, held onto just one possession: battered tin bowls to receive their daily ration of gruel. 
 Within weeks, those rations, provided by the United Nations World Food Program, are at risk of running out for them and 500,000 other paupers, including thousands of people wasted by AIDS who are being treated with American-financed drugs that make them hungrier as they grow healthy.
 ''Not to put too fine a point on it,'' said Jeffrey Stringer, an American doctor who runs a nonprofit group treating more than 50,000 Zambians with AIDS, ''but it will result in the death of some patients.''
 Hoping to forestall such a dire outcome, the World Food Program made an urgent appeal in February for cash donations so it could buy corn from Zambia's own bountiful harvest, piled in towering stacks in the warehouses of the capital, Lusaka. 
 But the law in the United States requires that virtually all its donated food be grown in America and shipped at great expense across oceans, mostly on vessels that fly American flags and employ American crews -- a process that typically takes four to six months. 
 For a third year, the Bush administration, which has pushed to make foreign aid more efficient, is trying to change the law to allow the United States to use up to a quarter of the budget of its main food aid program to buy food in developing countries during emergencies. The proposal has run into stiff opposition from a potent alliance of agribusiness, shipping and charitable groups with deep financial stakes in the current food aid system. 
 Oxfam, the international aid group, and other proponents of the Bush proposal say it would enable the United States to feed more people more quickly, while helping to fight poverty by buying the crops of peasants in poor countries. 
 The United States Agency for International Development estimated that if Congress adopted the Bush proposal, the United States could annually feed at least a million more people for six months and save 50,000 more lives. 
 But Congress quickly killed the plan in each of the past two years, cautioning that untying food aid from domestic interest groups would weaken the commitment that has made the United States by far the largest food aid donor in a world where 850 million go hungry. 
 Representative Tom Lantos, Democrat of California and chairman of the House Foreign Relations Committee, warned last year at a food aid conference in Washington that decoupling food aid from American maritime and agribusiness interests was ''beyond insane.''
 ''It is a mistake of gigantic proportions,'' he said, ''because support for such a program will vanish overnight, overnight.''
 But James Kunder, acting deputy administrator of the development agency, said in an interview that the administration proposal, which would affect less than half of 1 percent of American agricultural exports, would not undercut American interests.
 ''The burden of proof is on producers and shippers to show this is going to significantly damage their interests,'' he said, ''because we can provide compelling evidence that allowing local procurement is going to save lives by speeding up delivery of supplies.'' 
 Here in Zambia, population 11 million, more than a million children are already orphaned, mostly because AIDS killed their parents. Life expectancy has plunged to 38 years, and countless sickened adults, unable to work, can no longer feed their families.
 On a recent day, patients on American-financed AIDS drugs and their families streamed into a food distribution point at the Lewanika Hospital in the town of Mongu. Already, as the World Food Program's stocks were running low, rations had been almost halved. Some were so hungry that they scooped handfuls of corn-soy powder into their mouths without even adding water to make porridge. 
 One of the patients, Annie Mubita, a 32-year-old mother of six, said her strength was returning, and so was her appetite, which had shriveled when she was sick. Mrs. Mubita assumes her children are also H.I.V. positive, she said, but has not had them tested because if they, too, go on the drugs, they will be as hungry as she is.
 ''If the children have an appetite like me, the food won't last even two weeks,'' she said. If the rations end, she said, ''me and my children will die.'' 
 Kandundu Litia, a 12-year-old orphan with AIDS, also fears a cutoff of food. The donated corn helps her impoverished foster family -- an H.I.V.-positive aunt and uncle and their children -- to take care of her. Only in the months since the rations began has there been enough for her to eat three meals a day. The short shock of hair springing from her head still had the telltale reddish tint of the malnourished.
 David Stevenson, who leads the World Food Program's Zambia office and has worked for the organization in Africa for 15 years, through war and drought, says he has never seen a crisis on the scale of what AIDS and drought have wrought in Zambia.
 With cash donations, he and others say, the World Food Program could get Zambian corn to the hungry in a month.
 The cash would also stretch further than importing food. In recent years, the World Food Program has procured 75 percent more food for Zambia, Kenya and Uganda by buying corn grown in those countries rather than shipping American food, according to Michigan State University agricultural economists who studied crop and shipping data.
 There is hope that Zambia, a relatively stable democracy, can become a breadbasket in a region roiled by conflict, disease and economic collapse, at least in years when it is not devastated by drought. 
 In lean years, the World Food Program shuts down its buying operation here for fear of driving up the prices of corn, the main staple, beyond the reach of poor consumers. It imports food instead.
 But during bumper harvests, the World Food Program has become a major buyer of Zambian-grown corn. One of its biggest suppliers is Zambia's Food Reserve Agency, which buys from farmers' cooperatives and unions as a way of helping small-scale farmers gain access to markets. Since 2001, it has bought more than $1 billion worth of food in some of the poorest countries on earth.
 For farmers like Catherine Hangama, 36, that money makes all the difference. She works a small plot with her husband in the village of Nakandyoli in the Mumbwa district. For the first time last year, they sold a small surplus of corn -- six 50-kilogram bags -- for $53 to the Zambian government's Food Reserve Agency, one of the World Food Program's biggest suppliers here. 
 That money bought soap and paid for uniforms and fees to send three children to school. This year, she and her husband have planted more and hope to sell 15 bags after this year's harvest.
 ''If I don't plow well, the children won't be able to go to school,'' she explained, with one twin baby at her breast and the other on her back.
 What Ms. Hangama earns is a pittance compared with the billions at stake for the main players in American food aid.
 Over the past three years, the same four companies and their subsidiaries -- Archer Daniels Midland, Cargill, Bunge and the Cal Western Packaging Corporation -- have sold the American government more than half the $2.2. billion in food for Food for Peace, the largest food aid program, and two smaller programs, according to the Department of Agriculture. 
 Shipping companies were paid $1.3 billion over the same period to move the food aid overseas, the department's figures show. 
 Nonprofit groups received over $500 million in donated American food, which they sold at market rates in developing countries to raise money for antipoverty programs, according to the international development agency, and a recent study by Emmy Simmons, a retired agency official. 
 Agribusiness and shipping groups vigorously oppose the Bush administration proposal to buy food in developing countries with cash, which they argue is more likely to be stolen. They say that American food is safer and of higher quality and that the government can speed delivery by storing it in warehouses around the world. 
 And they defend the idea that federal spending should benefit American business and farming interests, as well as the hungry. Without support from such interest groups, food aid budgets from Congress would wither, they say. 
 ''It would be at extreme risk of being diminished,'' said Paul B. Green, a consultant to the North American Millers' Association, a trade group for the milling industry that counts Archer Daniels Midland, Bunge and Horizon Milling, a joint venture of Cargill and CHS Inc. among its members. 
 Gloria Tosi, a lobbyist and immediate past president of the American Maritime Congress, an association of United States-flag ship owners, agreed. ''There's no constituency for cash,'' she said. 
 Many charitable groups involved in food aid share that worry, and also warn that a badly managed program to buy food in poor countries could drive up food prices and worsen hunger. 
 The Alliance for Food Aid, made up of 14 nonprofit groups involved in distributing and selling American food aid overseas, maintains that the Bush proposal is too ambitious and advocates a modest pilot program. 
 ''Do a demonstration,'' said Robert Zachritz, a senior policy adviser at World Vision. ''Does it work? Then you can go from there.''
 For now, the World Food Program says it hopes that other rich nations or individuals will donate cash to keep rations flowing for the half million needy Zambians, among them Munalula and 135,000 children fed through community schools. 
 The pupils in this grass hut schoolhouse are from families so poor they cannot afford the flip-flops and $6 uniforms required to attend public schools. 
 Beatrice Nyambe, 64, a retired public school teacher who serves without pay as principal, worries that when food from school runs out, most of the children will go back to day work in the fields so they can buy a few handfuls of cornmeal to fill their bellies.
 Munalula, whose own mother was an untrained teacher before AIDS took her, is the best student in the school and wants to be a teacher as well. She helps her cousins with their homework, scratching out numbers in the dirt with a stick.
 At school, she and 50 other children in the dirt-floored classroom in the village of Nalusheke fell silent but for the smacking sounds they made eating a boiled mush of American bulgur wheat. Each bowlful, topped with split peas from Canada, cost 12 cents. The bulgur came from sacks emblazoned with the words, ''Gift of the people of the United States of America.''
 Munalula and her barefoot cousins scraped their bowls clean, savoring each unsweetened bite. But some children barely touched theirs. 
 Sisi Negenda, a 6-year-old with little braids, shyly explained. She has a younger sister, 3, and several orphaned relatives at home. She said she wanted to share with them. She carried off the bowl, still heavy with porridge, as though it were a precious, breakable object.
 Chart: ''For U.S. Food Aid, a Long Journey''Critics say the system of food aid in the United States, which requires food to be grown in America and shipped across oceans, is costly and inefficient. Some other countries give cash to buy food locally.PARTS OF THE SYSTEMAgribusinessAmerican farmers and grain traders bid for food aid contracts.ShippersOverseas transportation accounts for 30 percent of food aid costs. Preference is given to ships flying U.S. flags.Charitable-interest groupsFood is distributed by nonprofit aid groups. Some groups sell food at market prices.HOW THE SYSTEM WORKSCommodity and shipping contracts are awardedFood is processed and baggedFood arrives at a U.S. port for shipmentFood is unloaded at an overseas portFood moves to a primary warehouseFood moves to a secondary warehouseFood arrives at final distribution sites
 Graph tracks how long it takes food to go through the aforementioned steps, in months.(Source by Government Accountability Office)(pg. A7)Map of Zambia highlighting Mulondo: American law requires virtually all food donations, including those for faraway hamlets like Mulondo, to be grown in the United States. (pg. A7) 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Children in Nalusheke, Zambia, received a World Food Program lunch of wheat from the United States and split peas from Canada. (Photo by Evelyn Hockstein for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
Munalula Muhau, right, carried a tin bowl to a school for impoverished students who rely on daily meals provided by the World Food Program.
 Workers for the Food Reserve Agency, a supplier to the World Food Program, carried sacks of corn bound for Zimbabwe. The agency buys Zambian corn when there is a good harvest. (Photographs by Evelyn Hockstein for The New York Times)(pg. A7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (92%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (91%); AIDS & HIV (91%); AGRICULTURE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); BUDGETS (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); CHARITIES (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); FAMINE (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); MARINE SHIPPING (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); FARM LABOR (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%) Food; Famine; Foreign Aid; United Nations World Food Program; Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Grain; Food; Law and Legislation; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Third World and Developing Countries; Agribusiness; Ships and Shipping

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (94%); UNITED NATIONS (84%)

PERSON: TOM LANTOS (50%) Celia W Dugger; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); ZAMBIA (95%); AFRICA (93%); ZIMBABWE (79%) Africa; Zambia; United States

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2007



132 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 251 words

HEADLINE: Circuit City Layoffs

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''3,400 Layoffs Send a Message to Millions,'' by David Leonhardt (Economix column, April 4), detailing how corporations like Circuit City are trying to do away with ''expensive'' older workers: 
A number of issues logically arise from this practice.
 First, as most of us know, customer service at any number of institutions has gone down the tubes in the last few years. Could this be connected to a dearth of more experienced workers? The actual ''efficiency'' of this practice must be considered in relation to the number of lost sales, mistakes and angry clientele.
 Even more experienced and dedicated workers must notice that ''working hard to get ahead'' does not pay anymore. Their incentive to get things right would be damaged by this knowledge. In an age of bloated bonuses for executives who make appallingly bad decisions, this is especially galling.
 Finally, the practice must be considered in light of the good of society as a whole. When workers cannot count on promises made by employers, how can they plan mortgages, borrow money or do anything that requires faith in the future? The resultant drop in consumer confidence and spending hurts the entire nation.
 Capitalism has long been considered a major component of the American Dream. But it always involved a pact between worker and employer, a recognition of mutual obligation. This new ''efficient'' model breaks that agreement. It may actually be incompatible with the dream.Howard SchmittPittsburgh, April 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); OLDER WORKERS (72%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (71%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%) Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Age, Chronological

COMPANY: CIRCUIT CITY STORES INC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: Circuit City Group

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (93%); SIC5731 RADIO, TV & CONSUMER ELECTRONICS STORES (93%)

PERSON: Howard Schmitt; David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2007



133 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: A United Front Against the Taliban

BYLINE: By Munir Akram. 
Munir Akram is Pakistan's ambassador to the United Nations.

 BODY:
AS the spring fighting season opens, Afghanistan faces many challenges: terrorism, the Taliban, Islamic extremism, drugs and criminals, warlords and factional friction, weak government and an inadequate national and international security presence. 
 This is a good time to make an objective assessment of the Afghan and regional environment and to put together a strategy to overcome those challenges. This strategy should be comprehensive, combining military containment with political reconciliation, administrative control and rapid socio-economic development. It must build peace through a bottom-up approach -- village by village, district by district -- by offering incentives and disincentives to secure the support and cooperation of local populations.
Winning the hearts and minds of the people is even more important than killing or capturing insurgents. Military tactics that cause collateral civilian casualties and damage property may kill 10 terrorists, but they will create 100 more. Most important, no strategy will succeed without accelerated reconstruction and economic development. It must offer hope to the people -- hope for peace, jobs and better lives for themselves and their children. 
 Pakistan's frontier regions have seen tremendous support for extremism during the three decades of conflict in Afghanistan. After the Taliban's ouster in late 2001, thousands of Qaeda and Taliban fighters crossed into Pakistan. We are committed to eliminating their influence. This is essential for Pakistan's goals of rapid modernization and increased trade and energy links with Central Asia. 
 Thus any strategy for stabilization in Afghanistan's south and southeast must go hand-in-hand with efforts in Pakistan's frontier region. Contrary to criticisms from some in Kabul and Washington, Pakistan has made significant contributions to such stabilization.
 First, the Pakistan Army and intelligence services have captured more than 700 Qaeda terrorists and destroyed most of the group's command-and-control structure on our side of the border. As Vice President Dick Cheney has noted: ''We have captured and killed more Al Qaeda in Pakistan than any place else.'' 
 In this, we have paid dearly: in 90 military operations, Pakistan has lost some 700 soldiers. The terrorists have launched several suicide attacks against our leaders, our security forces and civilian targets. But this has not deterred us. Al Qaeda is on the run. It will certainly not be allowed to regroup on our soil.
 Second, we have captured and handed over to Afghanistan more than 1,500 Taliban militants in the past three years, including a large part of the leadership. Of course, we can do only so much considering that the Taliban's centers for recruitment, financing and command are in Afghanistan, as the United Nations secretary general's reports have attested. 
 Third, Pakistan is making new efforts to control its difficult 1,500-mile border with Afghanistan. Today 80,000 Pakistani troops are deployed in the tribal areas and along the border. Some 1,000 border posts have been established. About 20 miles of the roughest border terrain, where many clandestine crossings take place, will soon be fenced. 
 We are also starting stricter measures to regulate legal border traffic between Pakistan and Afghanistan -- about 300,000 people cross each day -- by, among other means, introducing biometric cards to improve identity checks. (I must note that it is not very helpful when border guards on the Afghan side cut up and throw away these cards.)
 Of course, the movement of militants goes in both directions. Control of the border is a joint responsibility of Pakistan, Afghanistan and the international coalition forces. The onus cannot be placed on Pakistan alone. 
 Indeed, there is intense cooperation, through such formal partnerships as the military Tripartite Commission -- made up of Pakistan, Afghanistan and NATO -- its new Operational Coordination Working Group and a recently established Joint Intelligence Operations Center in Kabul. Apart from real-time intelligence sharing, Pakistan would benefit from Western-supplied electronic and other equipment to crack down on illegal border movement more effectively. 
 Fourth, Pakistan will act shortly to remove any last basis for allegations about so-called ''sanctuaries'' and ''safe havens'' for the Taliban in Pakistan. After crossing into Pakistan, Taliban elements often merge into the large population at camps for Afghan refugees. It is difficult to distinguish Taliban militants from the rest of the thousands of Afghans. It is mostly in these camps that the Taliban finds recruits.
 To resolve this problem, we have reached an agreement with the Afghan government to move four large camps -- Pir Alizai and Gidri Jungle in Baluchistan Province, and Jallozai and Kachi Garhi in the North-West Frontier Province -- to Afghanistan. Pakistan will also repatriate the last of the three million Afghan refugees who have found protection inside its borders within the next three years. We have been their host for 30 years without any appreciable international assistance, which has placed a tremendous burden on our economy and contributed to the rise of militancy. 
 Finally, Pakistan has a comprehensive strategy to promote peace and progress in our frontier regions. The objective is to win over the local population and to isolate the militants. The agreement that the Pakistani government reached with tribal elders in North Waziristan last September was essentially an exchange of peace for economic development. 
 Contrary to the assertions of some Afghans, there is no proved relationship between that agreement and the rise of violent incidents in Afghanistan last year. Rather, the military strikes in recent weeks by tribal forces against Uzbeks and other foreign militants in South Waziristan should confirm the effectiveness of our approach. 
 Pakistan has advocated a similar approach in working with tribal leaders on the Afghanistan side of the border, in which Kabul would reach agreements through local assemblies, or jirgas. This idea was the essence of the three-party meeting of Pakistan, Afghanistan and the coalition forces organized by President Bush in September. It led to the first meeting of the Pakistan and Afghanistan jirga commissions in January in the Pakistani capital, Islamabad. The sides agreed to stop the blame game and increase cooperation to address common problems of border control and refugee repatriation. 
 In the long run, joint efforts by Afghanistan and Pakistan are about more than terrorism: each country desperately needs rapid reconstruction and development on its side of the border. We are grateful for the United States commitment of $750 million over the next five years for Pakistan's tribal areas. We hope for more help from other donors for this vital objective.
 A key part of Pakistan's effort is to create ''reconstruction opportunity zones'' in the tribal areas. Pakistan's private sector will invest in industry and manufacturing, while Washington has promised special tariff- and duty-free access in the United States market for products from these areas. The European Union should provide such access as well. In turn, we would provide help to Afghanistan in creating similar economic zones on its side of the border.
 Creating a peaceful, stable and prosperous Afghanistan is as much in the interest of Pakistan as of the United States and the Afghans themselves. The cooperative framework that has been established by Afghanistan, Pakistan, the United States, NATO and the international community will be vital for success. Butwe must ensure that bond is not eroded by mutual recrimination or frustration with occasional setbacks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); TALIBAN (92%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); ARMIES (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (76%); POLITICS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); RELIGION (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%) Politics and Government; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%) Taliban; Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group); North Atlantic Treaty Organization

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (58%) Munir (Amb) Akram

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%) Pakistan; Afghanistan; Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2007



134 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: Detroit Decides to Help Shape, Not Resist, Regulation of Emissions

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD and NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
The New York International Auto Show, which opened to the public yesterday, is a picture of an industry with a cloud over its head.
 While the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center abounds with flashy new vehicles like the big Lexus LX 570, a sport utility vehicle equipped with 19 speakers and 10 air bags, and the high-powered Ford Mustang 500 GT KR, created by the longtime racing designer Carroll Shelby, the carmakers are also contending with the possibility that such gas-guzzling vehicles may soon become harder to sell.
On Monday, the Supreme Court ruled that the Environmental Protection Agency has the authority to regulate carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases from automobiles. The primary way that can be done, carmakers and environmentalists say, is to increase automobile fuel economy. 
 In normal times, that would raise hackles from Detroit carmakers, which have a long history of fighting regulations covering both fuel economy and tailpipe emissions. But this week, company executives were saying something different. 
 Rather than openly battle regulations that would force them to make vehicles more efficient, automakers and their Washington trade group are saying they want an active role in the movement to reduce the damage vehicles do to the environment.
 One reason is public pressure, said Steve Sturm, group vice president for Toyota in North America. ''Look at how many people went to see Al Gore's movie,'' Mr. Sturm said, referring to ''An Inconvenient Truth.'' 
 Environmental issues are ''in the news every week,'' Mr. Sturm added. ''It keeps getting major headlines.''
 Exhaust emissions from the tailpipes of cars and trucks account for about a fifth of the country's total emissions of heat-trapping gases. 
 ''People get it now,'' said David Doniger, a lawyer and climate center policy director of the Natural Resources Defense Council. ''They didn't pay much attention to global warming five years ago.''
 Another crucial factor is the move by both Congress and the Bush administration for action on fuel economy. Lawmakers have introduced bills calling for raising the fuel economy standard, called the corporate average fuel economy, to as high as 40 miles a gallon, compared with the current 27.5 miles a gallon for cars and 24 miles a gallon for light trucks.
 The administration's proposal, part of a collection of steps it wants to see taken on the environment, would call for more modest increases of about one mile a gallon per year over the next few years. 
 No matter what is instituted, however, carmakers are getting the message that fuel economy is going to go up as part of the fight against global warming, even if government action is still several years away.
 Given that, carmakers said at the New York show that they want to be included in the dialogue, not shunted aside because of their past resistance.
 ''We very much want to work with Congress,'' said Derrick M. Kuzak, group vice president for global product development at the Ford Motor Company, echoing the official stance of the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, an industry trade group.
 Mr. Kuzak went on, ''We recognize that CO2 is an issue and we want to be part of the solution, but it has to be technology-based, and affordable.'' 
 Mr. Doniger said, ''They're coming to the table so they can avoid being on the menu.''
 Indeed, Mr. Kuzak said the worst thing Congress or the administration could do would be to make changes that would force consumers to change their buying habits and ''force us to include expensive technology'' that buyers are not willing to pay for. Even so, small cars outsold sport utility vehicles last year and analysts expect S.U.V. sales to continue to decline.
 The technology that would be required to fight automotive emissions could raise the cost of many vehicles by more than $5,000, said Robert A. Lutz, vice chairman at General Motors. Rebates and other incentives have made buyers resistant to price increases, so the struggling automakers would have to absorb the expense.
 ''This technology does not come for free,'' he told reporters at the auto show. ''Anybody who thinks that the auto industry will invent some sort of device that will eliminate or absorb CO2 is dreaming.''
 Even so, for the last year G.M. has promoted the vehicles in its lineup that achieve 30 miles to the gallon. At the show this week, G.M. took that focus a step further. It showed off three tiny concept cars, the Trax, Beat and Groove, which could represent a future minicar to be sold by Chevrolet. The company is asking visitors to visit a Web site, www.vote4chevrolet.com, to choose their favorite among the three, which it could then put in production. 
 Still, the carmakers are squaring off against states and environmentalists outside Washington. Eleven states have adopted the emissions regulations created by California, which are meant to cut emissions from cars and light trucks by 25 percent and from sport utility vehicles by 18 percent, beginning in 2009. 
 Automakers have jointly filed suit against the regulations in California and will go to court in Vermont next week, in an effort to block the measures from being enacted there. The automakers say they would have to close dealerships and limit the number of big vehicles they sell in Vermont and elsewhere if the regulations take effect.
 Toyota, which has sold more than 500,000 hybrid-electric vehicles in the United States this decade, still has found itself a target of environmentalists because it has broadened its range to include big vehicles like the new version of the Tundra pickup.
 On Wednesday, two protestors from the environmental group Freedom From Oil were arrested after they unfurled a 20-foot banner at the entrance to the Javits Center. Borrowing from Toyota's advertising slogan, the banner read, ''Toyota: The Truck That's Changing the Climate.'' 
 The protest took place a day after Toyota said that it sold a record number of Prius hybrid cars during March, thanks in part to an advertising campaign coupled with special lease deals.
 ''Building Priuses does not give Toyota license to mass-produce the Tundra,'' said Sarah Connolly, the co-director of the Freedom From Oil campaign.
 Mr. Sturm said he did not see any conflict between the vehicles. The Prius allows Toyota ''to be noticed as an environmentally sensitive company,'' he said, while Tundra puts Toyota in the big-truck market ''where everyone plays.''
 Indeed, Mr. Kuzak at Ford agreed that it would be variety, not a single approach that is needed to address the fuel economy issue. He said Ford was looking at several strategies. . 
 ''It is not simply power train technology, it is not simply downsizing vehicles,'' said Mr. Kuzak, whose company showed off a new crossover vehicle called the Flex as well as a big Ford Expedition customized by the hip-hop disc jockey Funkmaster Flex.
 ''All those technologies will get us to where we need to be as an industry,'' Mr. Kuzak said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Ford Mustang 500 GT KR, created by racing designer Carroll Shelby, is on display at the New York International Auto Show. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
General Motors is showing off three tiny concept cars, the Beat, far left, Trax, center, and Groove, at the New York International Auto Show. The carmaker is asking visitors to go to a Web site to choose their favorite among the three, which it might then put in production. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)(pg. C7)Chart: ''Cutting Tailpipe Emissions''With political and regulatory pressure building, automakers may be forced to find ways to cut greenhouse gas emissions from cars and trucks.Greenhouse gas emissionsAS A PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL EMISSIONS IN THE UNITED STATES IN 2004Electricity generation: 33.3%Transportation: 27.9Cars, trucks and buses: 22.5%Industry: 19.6Agriculture: 7.0Commercial: 6.6Residential: 5.6TOP-SELLING VEHICLESFord F seriesMARCH 2006 SALES: 71,481GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS, TONS PER YEAR*: 10.5-12.0Chevrolet SilveradoMARCH 2006 SALES: 55,626GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS, TONS PER YEAR*: 9.6-12.1Toyota CamryMARCH 2006 SALES: 42,254GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS, TONS PER YEAR*: 4.8-7.9Dodge RamMARCH 2006 SALES: 38,301GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS, TONS PER YEAR*: 9.7-12.0Honda AccordMARCH 2006 SALES: 36,506GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS, TONS PER YEAR*: 5.9-7.8Toyota CorollaMARCH 2006 SALES: 34,355GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS, TONS PER YEAR*: 5.2-5.5Honda CivicMARCH 2006 SALES: 29,721GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS, TONS PER YEAR*: 3.7-7.0Chevrolet ImpalaMARCH 2006 SALES: 28,505GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS, TONS PER YEAR*: 7.5-8.7Nissan AltimaMARCH 2006 SALES: 27,521GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS, TONS PER YEAR*: 4.7-7.6Honda CRVMARCH 2006 SALES: 19,658GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS, TONS PER YEAR*: 7.2-7.6Ford EconolineMARCH 2006 SALES: 19,445GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS, TONS PER YEAR*: 11.3-11.9Toyota PriusMARCH 2006 SALES: 19,156GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS, TONS PER YEAR*: 3.4Toyota TacomaMARCH 2006 SALES: 18,243GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS, TONS PER YEAR*: 7.3-10.3Chevrolet CobaltMARCH 2006 SALES: 18,061GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS, TONS PER YEAR*: 6.1-7.3Dodge CaravanMARCH 2006 SALES: 17,921GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS, TONS PER YEAR*: 8.3-9.1*Figures exclude estimates for vehicles running on ethanol, which is still not widely used.(Sources by Environmental Protection Agency
 U.S.D.A. Forest Service)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (85%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (75%); VERDICTS (75%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (75%); CLIMATE CHANGE (75%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (75%); GREENHOUSE GASES (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%) Automobiles; Trade Shows and Fairs; New York International Auto Show; Decisions and Verdicts; Fuel Efficiency; Automobiles; Weather; Global Warming; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry ; Carbon Dioxide

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%) Supreme Court (US); Environmental Protection Agency ; Toyota Motor Corp

PERSON: AL GORE (54%) Micheline Maynard; Nick Bunkley; Steve Sturm

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2007



135 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: Employment Trend Stays Strong, With 180,000 Jobs Added in March

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
It just keeps going.
 The job market showed little sign of losing its vigor last month as wages climbed and job growth rose, the Labor Department reported yesterday.
Economists said the numbers were consistent with an economy that was being supported by strong consumer spending, with considerable hiring in businesses like restaurants, bars, department stores and educational services.
 In all, the Labor Department said that employment outside the farming sector grew by 180,000 in March. And in another sign of the job market's resilience, employment growth in January and February was stronger than the government first reported. 
 The national unemployment rate also edged down last month to 4.4 percent, from 4.5 percent, matching a five-year low that it reached briefly in October.
 With the economy showing signs of imbalance elsewhere -- in the housing market, in business investment and in worker productivity -- the job market has been the area that continues to show momentum despite a broader slowdown.
 ''Sometimes the pieces of the puzzle don't fit together the way you'd expect them to,'' said Jared Bernstein, an economist with the Economic Policy Institute. ''And it's the tireless American consumer who's keeping the job market moving forward.''
 The employment report offered a reason for consumers' continued free spending: their incomes keep going up. The average hourly earnings for workers rose 4 percent in March compared with those a year earlier, to $17.22 an hour. 
 The jobs report appeared to confirm the Federal Reserve's outlook for moderate economic growth, dimming hopes that interest rates will come down anytime soon. With wages increasing at a strong pace and the unemployment rate so low, the Fed is likely to continue to focus on rising inflation as the biggest threat to the economy. The yield on the United States Treasury's 10-year note reflected this, rising to the highest level in eight weeks in a session that was shortened because of Good Friday.
 While consumers are spending more, much of that money is borrowed. The Federal Reserve reported yesterday that consumer debt rose in February by $2.97 billion to a record $2.41 trillion. Americans are putting more of that debt on credit cards. The Fed's measure of revolving debt, which includes credit cards, rose $2.494 billion, after rising $1.229 billion in January.
 As the case has been for the last several months, the employment report was not only solid, but it showed that employers were even busier hiring in previous months than the government first estimated. The latest figures showed 32,000 jobs that were not included in the employment tallies for January and February.
 ''The fact of the matter is the job market is very, very healthy,'' said Joshua Shapiro, chief economist of MFR. ''And it's not like this is a fluky one-off thing. There's a whole host of evidence about the labor market that points to strength.''
 Only a few pockets of the job market last month showed any softness. Manufacturing continued to shed workers, eliminating some 16,000 jobs. That was the largest of any sector, and the losses came primarily from the assembly line. Real estate renting and leasing services cut 5,200 jobs; telecommunications businesses cut 6,200.
 But construction, which has been hit by a slowdown in residential real estate, added 56,000 jobs after cutting 67,000 the month before. Of those new jobs, 45,200 were in the specialty trade contractor business. And most of those -- 34,200 jobs -- were in nonresidential contracting.
 Most of the hiring last month was in businesses that typically get a lift when consumers spend freely. Retail businesses added 35,900 jobs, almost all of those in department stores, discount warehouses and other general merchandise outlets. Gains in those businesses helped offset job losses in building supplies stores, furniture stores and automobile dealerships. Restaurants and bars hired 19,000 new workers.
 Doctors' offices, hospitals and other health care service providers added 29,500 jobs. New jobs in educational services totaled 15,800.
 Economists said this level of job growth suggested that any spillover from the housing downturn had been limited so far.
 ''If businesses were really losing confidence in the outlook, and if we were heading for a major downturn, then they'd be pulling back across the board,'' said Nigel Gault, chief United States economist for Global Insight. 
 Other measures of the job market showed signs of strengthening as well. The employment-population ratio, the percentage of Americans who are working, rose to 63.3 percent, from 63.2 percent in February. 
 But some economists pointed to possible anomalies in the data and suggested that the jobs numbers might not be as strong as they look. One factor that raised some eyebrows was that the strength in the retail sector was almost exclusively in general merchandise stores. 
 ''That kind of sticks out like a sore thumb,'' said Richard F. Moody, chief economist of Mission Residential, a real estate investment firm. ''It's hard to explain a jump that large in one month. And in terms of sustainable job growth, it doesn't really fit the bill.''
 Others pointed to possible distortions in the data for construction. ''Employment in residential construction is down by only 3 percent over the last year, even though construction is down by almost 20 percent,'' Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research in Washington, said in a report. ''Either productivity in the sector is crashing or, more likely, the data are not reflecting real employment trends.''
 In general, however, economists took the Labor Department report as a sign that growth will remain steady, prompting the Fed to hold interest rates at 5.25 percent for the foreseeable future. After yesterday's report, Goldman Sachs pushed back, to September, its estimate for when the Fed will lower rates. ''It appears that it will take a bit longer to see the extent of weakening that would convince the Fed to ease,'' a group of economists from the investment bank said in a research note.

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Labor Picture in March''Graph tracks the unemployment rate from April 2006 to March 2007.Unemployment rate: 4.4 percentBY DEMOGRAPHICSWhiteMARCH: 3.8%1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.21-YEAR CHANGE: -0.2BlackMARCH: 8.31-MONTH CHANGE: +0.41-YEAR CHANGE: -0.2Hispanic*MARCH: 5.11-MONTH CHANGE: -0.11-YEAR CHANGE: +3.1AsianMARCH: 3.0+1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.31-YEAR CHANGE: -0.4Teenagers (16-19)MARCH: 14.51-MONTH CHANGE: -0.41-YEAR CHANGE: -1.1DURATION OF UNEMPLOYMENT -- In weeksAverageMARCH: 17.31-MONTH CHANGE: +5.5%1-YEAR CHANGE: +1.8%MedianMARCH: 8.51-MONTH CHANGE: +4.91-YEAR CHANGE: Unch.EmploymentGraph tracks nonfarm payroll, 12-month change, from April 2006 to March 2007.AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGSRank-and-file workersMARCH: $583.801-MONTH CHANGE: +0.6%1-YEAR CHANGE: +4.4%SHARE OF POPULATIONEmployedMARCH: 63.3%1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.11-YEAR CHANGE: +0.3Labor force (workers and unemployed)MARCH: 66.21-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.1-YEAR CHANGE: +0.1'HIDDEN' UNEMPLOYMENT -- In millionsWorking part time, but want full-time workMARCH: 4.31-MONTH CHANGE: +1.6%1-YEAR CHANGE: +6.7%People who currently want a job<7>MARCH: 4.4+1-MONTH CHANGE: -5.81-YEAR CHANGE: -7.7UNEMPLOYED BY EDUCATION LEVELLess than high schoolMARCH: 7.0%1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.11-YEAR CHANGE: Unch.High schoolMARCH: 4.11-MONTH CHANGE: -0.21-YEAR CHANGE: -0.1Some collegeMARCH: 3.61-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.2Bachelor's or higherMARCH: 1.81-MONTH CHANGE: -0.11-YEAR CHANGE: -0.4BY TYPE OF WORK -- In millionsNonfarmMARCH: 137.61-MONTH CHANGE: +0.1%1-YEAR CHANGE: +1.4%GoodsMARCH: 22.51-MONTH CHANGE: +0.21-YEAR CHANGE: Unch.ServicesMARCH: 115.11-MONTH CHANGE: +0.11-YEAR CHANGE: +1.8AgricultureMARCH: 2.21-MONTH CHANGE: -4.41-YEAR CHANGE: +2.0Note: figures are seasonally adjusted, except where noted.*Hispanics can be of any race.+Not seasonally adjusted.<7>People not working who say they would like to. Includes discouraged workers or those who cannot work for reasons including ill health.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (99%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TRENDS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); INFLATION (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); RETAILERS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); DEBT NOTES (75%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); PROPERTY LEASES (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); EASTER SEASON (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); CREDIT CARDS (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%) Labor; Unemployment; Hiring and Promotion; Wages and Salaries; Real Estate; Renting and Leasing; Telephones and Telecommunications; Building (Construction); Retail Stores and Trade; Labor; Restaurants; Bars; Medicine and Health; Doctors; Hospitals; Education and Schools; United States Economy; Credit; Consumer Credit; Labor; Records and Achievements

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (55%) Labor Department (US); Federal Reserve System

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (57%) Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2007



136 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: Piracy Move On China Seen as Near

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS; David Barboza contributed reporting from Shanghai.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 6 

 BODY:
After months of prodding China to crack down on pirated copies of American movies, music and software, the Bush administration appears ready to escalate the dispute into a legal confrontation.
 In recent weeks, administration officials have strongly hinted that they are close to filing a formal trade complaint against China at the World Trade Organization, saying that China has failed to prosecute all but a small fraction of the ubiquitous and visible street trade in bootlegged American entertainment.
''The United States has made it clear that formal W.T.O. consultations will be necessary without concrete actions by China in this area,'' the office of the United States trade representative warned this week in its annual trade report to Congress. 
 The administration went on to complain about ''inadequate'' enforcement of intellectual property rights -- copyrights, patents and trademarks -- in movies, music, books, pharmaceuticals, software and many other areas.
 The China Copyright Alliance, an industry coalition that includes Hollywood studios, independent movie and television producers and the recording industry, has been pushing the administration for months to file a formal legal complaint. Administration officials have made it clear they are preparing to do so.
 ''We're all going to run out of patience at some point, and that's going to be sooner rather than later,'' said Susan C. Schwab, the United States trade representative, in a speech on Feb. 22.
 Bloomberg News, citing industry executives who said they had been briefed by the administration, said Ms. Schwab was likely to file two complaints against China as early as next week.
 Sean Spicer, a spokesman for the trade representative, refused to comment on administration plans. But industry executives have been expecting a formal complaint.
 ''It's a sign of growing impatience, including within the business community,'' said William A. Reinsch, president of the National Council on Foreign Trade, an association that represents companies on international trade issues.
 Industry executives said they had been waiting for the Bush administration to file two separate complaints. One addresses what American companies say is China's reluctance to use criminal laws for people caught selling DVDs with pirated material on them.
 A second complaint would be about expanding ''market access'' for American products in China. 
 If the United States files the twin actions, it would be the third time this year that the Bush administration has sought to pressure China for its trade practices, signaling a tougher policy after taking a largely conciliatory approach for six years. 
 On March 30, the United States announced it would reverse more than 20 years of practice and impose potentially steep tariffs on Chinese manufactured goods on the ground that China is illegally subsidizing some of its exports. 
 In February, the administration leveled a complaint with the world trade group that China subsidizes a number of industries in violation of trade rules. 
 The growing American trade deficit with China, which reached a record $232.5 billion last year, has been denounced by Democrats as the cause of hundreds of thousands of lost jobs. Many Democrats elected last fall campaigned for a tougher policy on trade with China, and Democrats have threatened to pass legislation to retaliate. Any new legal actions against China over intellectual property could be an effort to preempt those. 
 Chinese authorities have made moves in recent days to head off a legal confrontation. On March 26, China's National Anti-Piracy and Pornography Office announced that it had raided a storage facility in Guangzhou, after receiving information from the Motion Picture Association, and seized what it said were about 1.6 million pirated copies of movies and television shows.
 This week, the Chinese Embassy in Washington announced that China's Supreme Court had issued a ''new judicial interpretation'' that would lower the threshold under which prosecutors are allowed to charge people under criminal laws against piracy.
 Until this week, prosecutors could impose administrative penalties only on people caught with fewer than 1,000 illegal DVDs. Now the threshold will be just 500 DVDs
 But those moves are not enough to satisfy the movie industry or the recording industry. Nor are they likely in themselves to make a serious dent in the open sales of bootlegged music and software. In big cities like Shanghai, vendors sell pirated goods along major thoroughfares like the Nanjing Road as well as along bridges, small roads and alleyways. 
 Dan Glickman, president of the Motion Picture Association of America, told a Congressional hearing in February that movie producers were worried that pirated copies of American movies would not only lead to lost sales in China but be exported around the world and even back to the United States.
 ''We have walked a long way down the China road, looking and hoping for improvement,'' Mr. Glickman testified. ''We may be nearing the end of that course and deciding on whether to take another.''
 The broader issue is how China reacts to any legal complaint that the United States might bring. It is unclear whether the W.T.O. would agree with the United States, and it is even less clear what kind of punishments it would allow even if it did rule against China.
 If the new complaints are filed, under the trade organization's rules, the United States would formally ask for ''consultations'' with China. After 60 days, it would be allowed to ask for an independent panel of the World Trade Organization to consider the dispute. That process often takes years to complete.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A vendor shows a selection of counterfeit designer purses at her stall at the Silk Market in Beijing. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MUSIC (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (78%); COPYRIGHT (78%); ONLINE PIRACY (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (77%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); COUNTERFEITING (73%); TRADEMARKS (73%); PATENT LAW (73%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (72%); RECORD INDUSTRY (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); LITERATURE (68%); PATENTS (68%); CRIMINAL LAW (60%) Recordings and Downloads (Video); International Trade and World Market; Copyrights; Counterfeit Merchandise; Music; Recordings and Downloads (Audio); Books and Literature; Medicine and Health; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Recordings and Downloads (Video); Computers and the Internet; Computer Software; Book Trade

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE (57%) World Trade Organization; China Copyright Alliance

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%)

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (96%) China

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2007



137 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Giveaway in Honolulu Raises Eyebrows as It Lifts Spirits

BYLINE: By EVELYN NIEVES

DATELINE: HONOLULU, April 1 

 BODY:
One morning a few weeks ago, as Dorie-Ann Kahale was straightening the room she lived in with her five daughters, a visitor arrived sporting coiffed gray hair and keys to a mansion.
 The visitor, Genshiro Kawamoto, a Japanese equivalent of Donald Trump, had come by to tell Ms. Kahale that he was about to change her life. She and her girls would be leaving a homeless shelter for one of his multimillion-dollar houses in Honolulu's Kahala neighborhood, the Beverly Hills of Oahu.
''It's God's miracle,'' Ms. Kahale said, standing barefoot on the marble tile floor of the four-bedroom, four-and-a-half-bath, modified Colonial-style house. ''Look! I have crystal chandeliers in every room.'' 
 At the shelter, she had been sleeping on the floor of a room smaller than her new kitchen, and her daughters, ages 6 through 20, had been sharing one double bed. 
 Ms. Kahale, a customer service representative for a small Hawaiian phone and Internet company, is not the only person of modest means moving up to Kahala living. In a gesture worthy of Oprah Winfrey and reality TV, Mr. Kawamoto, one of Japan's richest real estate developers, is making good on a plan to open eight houses he owns in Oahu's most exclusive area to poor families of Native Hawaiian descent. 
 Ms. Kahale's family and two others were chosen from among 3,000 letters sent to Mr. Kawamoto after he announced his plan last October; they are living rent free (utilities not included) in houses worth up to $6 million. He has promised to let them live in his houses for 10 years. 
 But while Mr. Kawamoto's act of charity has made headlines around the world, it has also raised plenty of questions. 
 The trouble is that his past business practices have made many suspicious. As Lee Cataluna, a columnist for The Honolulu Advertiser, put it: ''He doesn't have a track record of generosity or compassion. Just what is he up to?''
 What Mr. Kawamoto does have is a reputation for capricious adventures in real estate in Hawaii and California. He is known for buying houses on a whim, failing to maintain them and serving eviction notices to entire communities on short notice.
 Mr. Kawamoto and other real-estate investors are partly responsible for driving up housing prices in Oahu during the mid-1980s. He snapped up nearly 200 houses and apartments by cruising communities in a limousine, pointing to properties he wanted and making cash offers that homeowners could not refuse.
 In 2002, he decided to sell nearly all the properties to take advantage of rising housing prices and gave some tenants only 30 days' notice before evicting them. His actions coincided with the beginning of a rental shortage that has made Hawaii's median rents (about $1,900 for a two-bedroom apartment) among the highest in the United States, said Ricky Cassiday, a residential real estate analyst.
 In 2002, Mr. Kawamoto also served 30-day eviction notices to hundreds of families in Santa Rosa, Calif., and the suburbs of Sacramento. That fueled an outcry so strong it led to new tenant-protection laws in California, and Mr. Kawamoto granted tenants an additional 60 days. 
 Since 2002, he has spent more than $115 million buying 22 houses in Kahala. But since then, some of those mini- and mighty mansions have stood empty and neglected, their lawns strewn with dead palm fronds, their fences rusting and pools green with algae. Residents of this sprawling enclave have complained and threatened legal action. Some also have publicly worried that Mr. Kawamoto was trying to drive down property values so he could snatch up more houses at lower prices. But Mr. Kawamoto, battle hardened at 75 years old, shrugs off the critics. ''I don't hear anything,'' he told reporters at a news conference held in late March in the circular driveway of Ms. Kahale's new home. 
 Mr. Kawamoto, who spoke through an interpreter, also announced there that he was waiving the $150-a-month rent he had planned to charge. Ms. Kahale burst into tears. Mr. Kawamoto teared up, too.
 He said it gave him great joy to provide places to live to hard-working people who had fallen on tough times, which is why he chose Native Hawaiians. Ms. Kahale, 39, and a single mother (she also has a son, 21, who is on his own), fit Mr. Kawamoto's bill perfectly. She makes $13 an hour but she lost her apartment two years ago when her rent rose to $1,200 from $800. She and her girls stayed with relatives, then spent five months on a beach before they moved in September to a shelter that opened an hour's drive from her job and church.
 Before his tenants moved to his houses, Mr. Kawamoto had the swimming pools filled in with rocks for insurance reasons. He also had the front gates and walls removed so the houses, he said, looked more like ''old Hawaii.'' He furnished the houses with a few sofas and beds, and gave each family $1,000 in $100 bills for moving expenses. 
 Ms. Kahale has visited Mr. Kawamoto's other tenants and hopes to organize monthly get-togethers. One is a single mother of five who works at an elementary school; the other is a couple with six children (the wife is a bank teller, the husband is unemployed). 
 When they moved in, a four-foot-tall Buddha statue out front was buried under overgrown palms. The backyard was a jungle. She and her daughters, with friends from church, raked and weeded for five days.
 ''I want us to fit in,'' she said.
 Recently, Ms. Kahale stood outside her white-columned house, daydreaming of her daughters taking prom pictures under the portico. (She has 14-year-old twins and a 15-year-old.) 
 Then she peeked into her mailbox. ''My first letter!'' she exclaimed. It was an invitation to join the Kahala Community Association. 
 But Ms. Kahale's smile disappeared as she read. The letter noted the problems the association had with Mr. Kawamoto's properties. But what got Ms. Kahale was the $40 needed to join the group. To that, she said, she would have to give some serious thought.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Genshiro Kawamoto wiped away tears after giving Dorie-Ann Kahale the keys to a Honolulu house, where he now allows her to live rent free. (Photo by Marco Garcia/Associated Press)
 ''It's God's miracle,'' said Dorie-Ann Kahale, a mother of six, of their move from a homeless shelter to a four-bedroom house in Honolulu. (Photo by Earl Ma for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); EVICTION (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); FAMILY (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (71%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (71%); HOMELESSNESS (71%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (70%); POOR POPULATION (69%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (65%); REALITY TELEVISION (51%) Housing; Real Estate; Gifts; Evictions; Housing

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (77%); OPRAH WINFREY (50%) Evelyn Nieves; Genshiro Kawamoto; Dorie-Ann Kahale

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (95%) HAWAII, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (73%) Honolulu (Hawaii); Hawaii; Oahu (Hawaii)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2007



138 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1325 words

HEADLINE: Democrats' Rise Has Pluses, Say G.O.P. Centrists

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 6 

 BODY:
If the Democratic ascendance on Capitol Hill was supposed to usher in dark days for Republicans, it is hard to tell from talking to moderate ones like Mike Ferguson, who represents a suburban district in central New Jersey.
 As the new Democrat-led House rushed to complete its business before adjourning for spring break this week, Representative Ferguson was marveling at the many bills that had been passed in Congress's first 100 days, including one that would make it easier for unions to organize and another that would increase the minimum wage.
''Under the Republican majority, those bills would have never gotten to the floor,'' he explained before heading back to his district. ''Now they have been brought to the floor, and I've voted for them.''
 Mr. Ferguson's enthusiasm captures a peculiar political reality in the Capitol: many Republicans from swing districts in the Northeast are finding that life under Democratic rule has its advantages. 
 During the 12 years that Republicans controlled the House, moderate Republicans were the stepchildren of their party, expected to vote with their conservative leadership on crucial issues, even if it meant taking positions that could anger centrist voters back home. 
 In fact, the Democrats made some of their deepest inroads last year in the Northeast. A total of 10 Republican incumbents in the House were defeated in four states -- New Hampshire, Connecticut, New York and Pennsylvania -- where the challengers aggressively tried to tie the incumbents to President Bush and his conservative allies on the Hill.
 Now, with those losses still fresh in their minds, Republican moderates remaining in the House are vowing to pursue their centrist positions more assertively, even if it means endorsing Democratic initiatives.
 And the new Republican House leadership, concerned about losing even more seats in 2008, appears to be showing a pragmatic streak by allowing moderates to stray more freely from the party fold. 
 ''If there's a good idea, we should work to get it done, regardless of whether it's a Republican or a Democrat who came up with the idea,'' said Mr. Ferguson, who was re-elected last year with just 49.5 percent of the vote.
 Since taking control of the House in January, Democrats have pushed through bills that would raise the federal minimum wage, overturn President Bush's restrictions on embryonic stem cell research, cut interest rates on college loans and implement Sept. 11 commission security recommendations.
 Many moderate Republicans joined the Democrats in supporting those measures, including Representative Christopher Shays of Connecticut, who won his own re-election campaign with 51 percent of the vote. 
 ''Democrats basically grabbed the center and ran with it politically,'' Mr. Shays said, adding that he would continue working with the Democrats provided they did not veer from the political center.
 Representative Peter T. King, a Republican from Long Island who regularly sides with conservative Republicans on abortion and immigration issues, said there were ''definitely positives'' in the direction in which Democrats had taken the House. 
 ''For a pro-labor Republican like me, it's been very beneficial,'' he said.
 In a measure of how competitive the Northeast could be next year, White House political strategists have put together a list of vulnerable House Republicans that includes five from the region: Mr. Shays, Mr. Ferguson, Representatives John Randy Kuhl Jr. from New York's Southern Tier, James T. Walsh from the Syracuse region and Jim Gerlach of Pennsylvania. 
 The list was obtained and circulated by Congressional Democrats, who are making plans to single out Northeastern Republicans for defeat in 2008, in the hopes of completing what many in their party see as an inevitable Democratic realignment in the region.
 In Mr. Walsh's 25th Congressional District, for example, Dan Maffei, a Democrat who came within about 3,400 votes of defeating Mr. Walsh, is planning to run again next year and has been meeting with party leaders and donors in Albany and Washington.
 And in the neighboring 29th Congressional District, Eric Massa, a Democrat, has told party leaders in Washington that he plans to challenge Mr. Kuhl, who defeated him last November with just 52 percent of the vote.
 In a recent interview, Mr. Maffei argued that his prospects of winning in a Democratic state like New York were greatly improved in 2008 because the presidential election would draw thousands of additional voters to the polls, most of them Democrats.
 ''The climate of a presidential year will carry us,'' said Mr. Maffei, who announced his candidacy on Friday. 
 Yet, paradoxically, the agenda that House Democratic leaders have been advancing over the last few weeks may actually give moderate Republicans political cover -- certainly more than when conservative leaders ran the House.
 In Mr. Walsh's case, he has already sided with Democrats on several major pieces of legislation, including a nonbinding resolution opposing President Bush's call for sending additional troops to Baghdad.
 Mr. Walsh's assistants say the votes reflect a centrist point of view that Mr. Walsh has held for years, but Mr. Maffei has described Mr. Walsh's votes as opportunistic. 
 ''It has nothing to do with ideology,'' Mr. Maffei said. ''It's purely political.'' 
 The House's Republican moderates are a relatively cohesive bunch of about 30 lawmakers who meet as a caucus (called the Tuesday Group) each week to discuss issues like health care and jobs.
 Recently, eight members of the group called on President Bush and Democratic leaders on the Hill to make climate change a top environmental issue this session. Increasingly, moderate Republicans have been reaching across the political aisle without fear of retribution from their own leaders.
 The situation is a far cry from previous Congresses, when the Republican leadership squelched internal divisions and passed bill after bill on party-line votes, including budget cuts to popular programs. The leadership also pushed ideologically freighted legislation that had little chance of becoming law.
 Last summer, for example, the Republican House leadership embarked on a legislative drive to highlight conservative causes like gun rights and new abortion restrictions. The effort was aimed at rallying conservative voters in advance of the fall elections. But moderates complained that it threatened their re-election prospects.
 This is not to say that the Republican leaders are completely passive these days. They managed to hold their party together in opposition to a recent Democratic proposal to bring most American combat troops home from Iraq next year. The proposal passed on a vote of 218 to 212, with all but two Republicans opposing it. All of the Northeastern moderates voted against the measure. 
 But by and large, Mr. Shays said, leaders of his party are giving members greater leeway to pursue divergent views more assertively.
 ''You don't have a Tom DeLay coming in with an ideology,'' he said, referring to the former Republican majority leader whose tight control over rank-and-file members of the House earned him the nickname the Hammer.
 ''They're picking their battles,'' Mr. Shays continued. ''Leaders are not trying to push their own individual agenda or their own individual ideology.'' 
 Mr. Walsh said that part of the reason Republican leaders had loosened their grip was that they no longer had the burden of producing the 218-vote majority needed to govern in the House. 
 ''When you are in the majority, you have to produce votes; so there's tremendous pressure,'' he said. ''That's not the case today. It's a very different environment.''
 But Mr. King said Republican House leaders had another reason for going easy on members.
 ''They don't want to lose seats,'' he said. ''They're not pushing members to take suicidal votes or take a bullet for the team.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); SUBURBS (72%); MINIMUM WAGE (70%); STUDENT LOANS (60%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) United States Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: MIKE FERGUSON (90%); PETER T KING (58%); CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%) Raymond Hernandez

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States; United States; Northeastern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2007



139 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER ONLINE REVIEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: The Web Gives Hotel Guests the Last Word

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
NEARLY every morning, over his second cup of coffee, Tom Brady, general manager at the Affinia Chicago, logs onto his computer and surfs over to TripAdvisor.com to see if there are any new postings about his hotel. 
 ''It's an obsession,'' he said. If the review is positive he moves on. If it's unfavorable -- like the complaint posted in March from a guest who had received a $90 parking ticket because of a valet's error -- he's on it immediately. In that case, he marched straight out to the valet to find out what had happened. After identifying the guest, he made sure that the company issued an apology and a reimbursement for the ticket.
''This is all over the world,'' he said, describing his concern about any negative comment on TripAdvisor. ''Everyone is looking at this. I've got to make sure it's solved quickly, so God forbid someone else doesn't have the same problem.'' 
 The individual traveler's word is weightier than ever. Before the advent of travel review sites like TripAdvisor, IgoUgo.com and MyTravelGuide.com, customer complaints about dirty showers or threadbare sheets typically went to hotels directly and discreetly in the form of comment cards, phone calls or e-mail messages. But as review sites have become more popular, customer feedback that was once viewed only by a hotel's staff is increasingly being posted online for all to see, enabling guests to share their praise or air their gripes publicly. 
 ''We love it and we hate it,'' said Steven Pipes, vice president at the Jack Parker Corporation, which owns the Parker Meridien in New York and the Parker Palm Springs in California. He regularly checks TripAdvisor. ''We love it because we really look for feedback and want to know what people are thinking about, and we know they don't always tell us to our faces,'' he said. ''We hate it because it's anonymous.'' The anonymity of the comments makes it difficult to respond to guests and find out exactly what happened, he said, or to know if they truly stayed at the hotel. 
 Nevertheless, the growing influence of such sites is hard for hoteliers to ignore. Three out of 10 American travelers who do travel research online read reviews written by other travelers, according to Forrester Research. Of the people who book hotels online, 30 percent have changed their hotel plans because of comments written by other travelers.
 Because of the importance consumers attach to guest reviews, some hotels have gone to great lengths to boost their ratings. Some encourage guests to write flattering reviews; some even submit phony write-ups or hire outside companies that specialize in online reputation management to monitor and respond to comments. Review sites, in turn, work to weed out bogus reviews. 
 Now, interest in the review sites is taking a new turn. As more travelers post detailed comments on everything from room service to decor, hotels are looking at their postings as market-research tools -- sources of new ideas, feedback on new concepts and even promotional material. 
 ''What this does is give you the information you need to improve,'' said Tony Fant, president and chief operating officer of the Soho Grand and Tribeca Grand hotels in New York. ''You look at it, evaluate it and learn from it.'' 
 For small hotel groups like his, Mr. Fant said that online hotel reviews have helped level the playing field. ''I have the same exposure through these Web outlets as Starwood, Marriott or Hilton, and they give me access to millions of customers I didn't have access to,'' he said.
 Some hotels have taken to publishing TripAdvisor reviews on their own Web pages. In response, TripAdvisor, which says it has a stockpile over five million reviews and opinions, has started to offer them to hotels and other travel companies in order to expand its reach. Last month it began allowing hotels to publish TripAdvisor reviews directly on their own hotel Web sites through R.S.S., or Really Simple Syndication, which transfers the comments directly, as they appear on TripAdvisor. So far about 200 hotels, including the Barclay House in Vancouver and Chanters Lodge in Zambia, and at least one hotel group, Affinia, have begun posting the reviews through R.S.S. Most of the customer reviews these hotels receive on TripAdvisor are positive, making the new feature an attractive option for them, regardless of the risk that some negative comments are bound to creep in. 
 TripAdvisor says there is no opportunity for hotels to manipulate reviews because they are automatically fed to the hotels as is, but it does allow hotels to post their own responses to comments.
 ''The hotels are saying, 'We have nothing to hide,' '' said Henry H. Harteveldt, a travel analyst at Forrester Research.
 By publishing the TripAdvisor reviews on its site, Affinia Hotels hopes to reinforce the message -- to both customers and its own employees -- that the guest's experience is important to the hotel. ''It raises the stakes for everyone when we make it that open,'' said John Moser, Affinia's chief marketing officer. 
 Since the reviews went live on its site, Affinia has begun developing a policy to monitor and respond to negative TripAdvisor comments. In the last month the company has begun asking general managers at its six hotels to monitor TripAdvisor and post responses to negative comments within five days. 
 Not every hotel is paying so much attention to consumers' reviews. Neither Marriott nor Hilton has a formal corporate strategy in place for monitoring hotel review sites, though both keep tabs on Flyertalk.com, a frequent-flier Web site where travelers obsess over getting the most out of loyalty programs.
 ''We've got so many hotels it's impossible to scan everything that's going on,'' said Bala Subramanian, senior vice president for global distribution services for Hilton Hotels. Hilton, he said, ''makes a tremendous amount of investment in collecting feedback'' through customer surveys. But as more hotels do take careful notice of guest reviews online -- and even stake their reputations on them -- posting one may be a surefire way for a customer to get a hotel's attention. ''I can tell you that you're going to get a response,'' said Mr. Moser of Affinia. When a complaint is out there on the Web, he said, ''there's no one to sweep it under the rug.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Nana Rausch) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (90%); HOTEL STAFF (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (77%); REPUTATION MANAGEMENT (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (71%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (63%) Hotels and Motels; Advertising and Marketing; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: JACK PARKER CORP (65%); TRIPADVISOR INC (58%); PRIME HOLDINGS & INVESTMENTS INC (55%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (51%)

TICKER: TRIP (NASDAQ) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (65%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (65%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

PERSON: Michelle Higgins

GEOGRAPHIC: PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



140 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1411 words

HEADLINE: Wandering In Weimar Purgatory

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
THE first episode of ''Berlin Alexanderplatz,'' Rainer Werner Fassbinder's 13-part (plus epilogue), 151/2-hour adaptation of Alfred Doblin's 1929 novel, is called ''The Punishment Begins.'' There is a heavy, obvious irony, since the hero of this modern urban anti-epic, a former pimp named Franz Biberkopf, has just been released from Tegel Prison, where he has served a four-year sentence for beating his girlfriend to death. 
 But a life at liberty in the bowels of a 20th-century metropolis, in Doblin and Fassbinder's vision, is a purgatory without limit; by comparison, the brick fastness of the penitentiary has an appealing monastic simplicity. (In a later episode, at a crisis moment of drunkenness and dissolution, Franz will take a taxi out to Tegel and sleep on a bench in the shadow of the jailhouse, as though seeking a reminder of the comforts of his former home.) 
 In Berlin in the years between the Treaty of Versailles and the Reichstag fire, it seems, the pursuit of pleasure led inexorably to disappointment or sin, and the various delights and distractions that the city offered -- sex, drink, politics, even friendship -- become occasions for torment. For Franz Biberkopf, a stout, shambling Weimar Everyman with large appetites and small ambitions, the punishment never ends.
 And yet Franz's misery, which in any case can look suspiciously like merriment whenever he embraces a new woman or a fresh stein of beer, is our delight. A restored and remastered version of ''Berlin Alexanderplatz,'' a project of Bavaria Media and the Fassbinder Foundation, will be shown at the Museum of Modern Art this week, in advance of a long-awaited DVD release (from the Criterion Collection) later this year.
 It may not be absolutely necessary to see Fassbinder's longest film, which was also one of his last, on the big screen all at once. Since ''Berlin Alexanderplatz'' was developed as a mini-series for West German television, where it was broadcast in 1980, watching it serially at home is arguably the more authentic viewing experience. But in the '80s it found greater appreciation among American moviegoers (it was shown in theaters here in 1983) than among German couch potatoes, and it is not hard, with a quarter-century's hindsight, to see why.
 More opera than soap opera, it is one of those hybrid cinematic works that demand immersion and endurance -- an element of punishment to sweeten the pleasure. If you dip in an hour at a time over the course of a week or a month, you risk missing its hypnotic, cumulative power. (An exhibition under construction in Germany will split the difference, presenting all the episodes simultaneously in separate screening rooms arranged around a space resembling a Berlin apartment-house courtyard).
 The 35-millimeter print that will be shown at MoMA was struck from a digitally restored 16-millimeter negative -- the smaller format was one of Fassbinder's reluctant concessions to the economies of television -- and it is a strange and beautiful artifact in its own right. Xavier Schwarzenberger, the cinematographer responsible for the faded-silk sensuousness of Fassbinder's ''Querelle'' and ''Veronika Voss,'' uses the chromatic limitations of 16-millimeter to great advantage, endowing color film with some of the haunting, shadowy textures of black and white. 
 After a while, the graininess that is a byproduct of the enlargement and transfer processes seems almost like an aesthetic statement in its own right. The atmosphere in which Franz and his fellow Berliners move is a thick, swirling soup of tiny particles. Walls, floorboards, streetlight-illuminated sidewalks: all of this inert, incidental matter looks menacingly alive, as though the Berlin air were a miasma of toxic elements suddenly visible to the naked eye. 
 In his novel, Doblin was able to transfer the seedy, chaotic glory of 1920s Berlin straight onto the page. Like other great Modernist prose monuments of the decade -- James Joyce's ''Ulysses,'' John Dos Passos' ''Manhattan Transfer'' -- ''Berlin Alexanderplatz'' tries to find, in the pulsating round-the-clock rhythms of the modern city, the basis for a new literary form. The random encounters and abrupt transitions that structure urban life, the sense of numberless human elements swirling through a bounded space, create a feeling of impersonality as well as energy. Doblin's book is a deadpan potboiler, an analytical melodrama, a true-crime tabloid chronicle related with the clinical detachment of a lab report. 
 It is also, like so much European art from the interwar decades, a story unaware of its own ending. In 1929, Doblin clearly suspected that the simmering cauldron of German society would boil over before long. Fassbinder, born in 1945, grew up knowing exactly how it had. And so his great historical films about the German past, many of them based on literary sources, have a ferocity rarely encountered in costume drama. In ''Berlin Alexanderplatz,'' as in ''The Marriage of Maria Braun'' and ''Veronika Voss,'' he tried to push beyond generalization and cliche to locate the pathology at the heart of the German temperament and, at the same time, to discover if there was anything there worth redeeming.
 He conducted this cruel, therapeutic inquiry using every available artistic strategy and all the resources of his prodigious, reckless talent. ''Berlin Alexanderplatz'' may not be his masterpiece, but it does demonstrate, perhaps more than any of his other work, his range as a writer, a visual stylist and a director of actors. A few sets and locations had to stand in for the sprawl and bustle of the vanished prewar capital, but those cramped spaces are populated with figures that seem to spring from the grotesque, vibrant graphic work of Otto Dix and George Grosz. 
 Weimar culture -- as English-language readers and moviegoers know largely from Christopher Isherwood's ''Berlin Stories'' and Bob Fosse's ''Cabaret'' -- was a dizzy cocktail of the learned and the lewd. It is a mix perfectly suited to Fassbinder's poete maudit sensibility, which blended bawdiness and delicacy to the point where they were nearly indistinguishable. 
 The episodes of ''Berlin Alexanderplatz'' are sometimes uneven, and the tone can shift abruptly from one to the next. Staginess gives way to subtlety; arch narration interrupts moments of wrenching naturalism. But these jolts and disjunctions can be thrilling as well as baffling, as Fassbinder and his cast, frequently wrapping up scenes in a single take, veer from the operatic to the naturalistic, from the profane to the lyrical, from the cartoonish to the tragic.
 The result is less a grand synthesis of modern popular culture than a brilliant pastiche, an anthology of influences and gleanings that nonetheless has its own grandeur and integrity. This comes, above all, from the performances, in particular Gunter Lamprecht's indelible impersonation of poor Franz Biberkopf, a character about whom there is nothing exemplary, admirable or even especially interesting, but who is nonetheless one of the representative men of 20th-century literature.
 Mr. Lamprecht -- big, slow-moving, at once impassive and exquisitely expressive -- grants Biberkopf a rough, poignant individuality that goes beyond what Doblin conceived. He is a philosophical brute, a sensitive sadist, a lurching fact of life. And he is surrounded by tramps, charmers and crooks, steadfastly served by a nosy landlady and a patient bartender, and loved by a series of women, including Barbara Sukowa and Hanna Schygulla, two of the great stars in Fassbinder's constellation. They bring glamour, heartbreak and sex into Franz's bleak world, even as they are also among the agents of his punishment.
 ''Berlin Alexanderplatz'' has lost little of its force and fascination after 25 years. Whether it belongs to the history of television, cinema, literature or theater remains an open and interesting question, but is also somewhat academic. Whatever it is, ''Berlin Alexanderplatz'' is alive, and Fassbinder, though he died in 1982, is as vital and troubling a presence as ever.
 The history of Germany in the 20th century is a wound in perpetual need of airing, and perhaps also of reopening -- a task undertaken by a handful of difficult, frequently unclassifiable works of art that do not soften or date. The punishment never ends. Berlin AlexanderplatzMuseum of Modern ArtTuesday through next Sunday; for schedule, see moma.org.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gunter Lamprecht, top, as Franz Biberkopf in Rainer Werner Fassbinder's ''Berlin Alexanderplatz,'' made for West German television in 1980. At right, Barbara Sukowa with Mr. Lamprecht. (Photo by Photofest)
 (Photo by Museum of Modern Art) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (86%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (78%); SENTENCING (76%); BEER & ALE (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (67%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (65%) Motion Pictures; Recordings and Downloads (Video)

ORGANIZATION: Museum of Modern Art (NYC)

PERSON: A O Scott; Rainer Werner (1936-82) Fassbinder

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (68%) GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (70%); UNITED STATES (68%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



141 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EXECUTIVE PAY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1776 words

HEADLINE: Has the Exit Sign Ever Looked So Good?

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
WHAT was the price of failure in corporate America in 2006? 
 More than $1 billion, with shareholders left holding the bag. At America's biggest companies, it was possible for chief executives to fumble, fudge or fail to deliver results -- and yet still walk away with more money than most people earn in a lifetime.
Consider:
 In late January last year, Mary L. Forte was ousted as the chief executive of the Zale Corporation after her plans to transform the discount jeweler into a more upscale chain fizzled. Lackluster holiday sales pulled down profits two years in a row. Yet Ms. Forte left with a $7.2 million golden goodbye -- including $4.9 million in severance. 
 A few weeks later, David J. Edmondson resigned as RadioShack's chief executive, a week after admitting to lying on his resume about his college credentials. The board still chose to give him more than $1 million in severance, including unused vacation.
 And in October, Jay S. Sidhu, citing health concerns, resigned as chief executive of Sovereign Bancorp amid mounting criticism from investors. Despite the bank's poor performance, Mr. Sidhu left with a $73.56 million platinum parachute lined with $24.4 million in cash and stock options, five years of free health care, and a three-year, $40,000-a-month consulting contract.
 Investors have long complained that too many top executives are taking home enormous paychecks for average performance. Even more galling to shareholders are the staggering amounts the executives are paid when they fail. It is tantamount to winning the lottery by losing their jobs.
 ''Classically, severance awards were to help people as a transition between jobs,'' said Richard C. Breeden, who was chairman of the Securities and Exchange during the early 1990s and is now an activist investor. ''The notion that some of these 'severance' awards are turning themselves into lifetime lifestyle maintenance awards,'' he added, ''is particularly outrageous.'' 
 A confluence of forces has increased the jackpot over the last two decades or so. A wave of buyouts and mergers has bid up the price of experienced managers. Boards are fond of luring superstar chief executives from other companies rather than promoting from inside. As a result, they often must extend a "golden hello" to compensate them for the pay package they left behind. At the same time, investor pressure and regulatory scrutiny have caused a surge in the number of ousted executives.
 Chief executives, meanwhile, have negotiated employment contracts that provided upfront guarantees and sweetheart severance deals. Aided by compensation consultants, compensation surveys and hired legal guns, they wove lucrative stock options awards and retirement plans into their exit packages. And in yet another example of the law of unintended consequences, a tax that Congress enacted in the early 1980s to curb excessive payouts actually encouraged boards to approve bigger parachutes. 
 As the years wore on, most corporate compensation committees never bothered to tally the various components of increasingly complex severance packages, leaving boards with little understanding of what an ousted chief executive would receive. Now, the S.E.C.'s new disclosure rules require companies to disclose how much they will pay top managers if they are forced out. 
 In 2006, the 35 chief executives who were ousted were handed more than $799 million on their way out the door, according to an analysis of exit packages by James F. Reda & Associates, an independent compensation consulting firm in New York. 
 Add in the $210 million platinum parachute for Robert L. Nardelli, the former Home Depot chief executive who was officially dismissed on the first workday of 2007, and the total comes to more than $1 billion for the year.
 ''What you are seeing is an early indicator of other things to come,'' said Mr. Reda, the head of the consulting firm that bears his name. ''The system has drifted and wasted corporate assets.''
 As large as the failure payouts are, something is still missing: the roughly $750 million in payouts that at least 27 chief executives received last year for selling their companies, according to estimates from Mr. Reda's firm. Yet many of those companies were on the block precisely because they had underperformed.
 The failure payouts from last year also don't include exit packages awarded in the midst of scandal but frozen in litigation. For example, after Dr. William W. McGuire of the UnitedHealth Group and Bruce E. Karatz of KB Home were dismissed in the wake of option backdating investigations, Dr. McGuire walked away with about $1.1 billion (largely in stock options), while Mr. Karatz left with about $114 million. Both awards are now tied up by the courts.
 Analysts say that enormous exit packages underscore a central problem with pay-for-failure: employment or severance contracts, not typically offered to the rank and file, create a ''heads I win, tails you lose'' proposition for executives. 
 While companies boast about their pay-for-performance programs, boards typically guarantee senior executives big salaries, stock options, future legal fees, severance packages and retirement plans when they are hired -- long before their on-the-job performance can be assessed. Companies argue that this is necessary to attract and motivate top talent, and is the price they pay to induce executives to sign noncompete agreements. 
 If everything works out, investors, directors and executives are happy. If it doesn't, shareholders are still on the hook -- and then obligated to dole out even more in exit pay. Of the $799 million that departing executives received last year, 37 percent, or $296 million, was severance. 
 Consider Douglas A. Pertz, who resigned in August as the C.E.O. of Harman International Industries, an electronics company. Mr. Pertz, an experienced manager, had never overseen an electronics company when Harman recruited him. As soon as he took over, Harman shares began to plummet. Four months later, Mr. Pertz was ousted -- taking $3.8 million in severance with him. That was almost $32,000 for each day he was a Harman employee.
 ''When it is apparent that it doesn't work, you take your medicine and move on,'' said Robert Ryan, a Harman spokesman, noting that the company needed to honor its contractual agreements. ''Harman's board could have swept it under the carpet and not admitted to the mistake.'' 
 Corporate spokesmen at RadioShack, Zale and Sovereign declined to comment about the severance packages of their former executives. 
 Being a former executive usually means receiving a cushier exit package than the one snared by simply retiring. And given how narrowly many contract terms are usually defined, pay advisers joke that it usually takes murder, embezzlement or outright fraud for an executive to be fired for cause.
 ''You can certainly 'fire' a C.E.O.,'' said Stewart J. Schwab, the dean of Cornell Law School. ''The real question is: Can you fire them without these very large severance payments being triggered?''
 Most often, the answer is no. Corporate boards are often eager to avoid long legal battles and critical press reports, Mr. Schwab said. For a multibillion-dollar enterprise, others argue, paying a top executive even tens of millions of dollars might be economically rational if it lets the company quickly put problems behind it.
 Mr. Reda's firm examined roughly 150 companies where the chief executives stepped down. Just two -- Atmel and KLA-Tencor -- were found to have terminated their chief executives without making payments. 
 Losing your job was not always solucrative. But just as the gap has grown between C.E.O. pay and what average workers bring home, so has the difference in their severance payments. The average worker is lucky to get about two weeks' salary for every year worked. The average chief without a contract can expect the equivalent of about 18 weeks of salary for each year worked, according to Mr. Reda's firm.
 And in 2006, the average chief who was ousted could expect a $9 million in severance, the equivalent of about 170 weeks of salary for each week at the helm.
 ''There is less economic justification to provide a soft landing for executives who are fired than for the rank and file,'' said Lucian A. Bebchuck, a professor at Harvard Law School and a compensation expert. ''In the real world, you see the reverse.'' 
 Corporate media officers and industry groups say severance pay is, by and large, not out of line -- especially given the risk that chief executives from outside take by wading into unfamiliar waters. ''It is dictated by the marketplace, not unlike an entertainer or athlete,'' said Thomas J. Lehner, a policy director at the Business Roundtable, a corporate lobbying group. Besides, others say, the news media and critics tend to focus on a few choice examples. 
 But 2006 offered a bounty of choices. Executives in at least a dozen different industries -- from auto repair (The Pep Boys -- Manny, Moe & Jack) and banking (Mellon Financial) to fast food (Wendy's International) and fashion (Phillips-Van Heusen) -- were awarded large exit packages when they left. So did managers in other businesses like education (Apollo), insurance (Conseco), pest control (ServiceMaster) and subprime lending (New Century). 
 In July, Hank McKinnell, Pfizer's chairman and chief executive, resigned with an exit package worth nearly $200 million -- although the company lost more than $137 billion in market value during the six years he was on watch. Mr. Nardelli, Home Depot's ousted chief, received a $210 million exit package for six years of work and a sagging stock price -- which quickly made him the standard-bearer for failure-based pay. Analysts say Mr. Nardelli was assured a lush payout because Home Depot's board guaranteed him roughly $180 million when he was hired.
 Some boards are starting to take notice. Those at the Hartford Financial Services Group and Prudential Financial Services, for example, are tightening their contracts; others are inserting claw-back clauses to recover any improper gains. .
 But most compensation lawyers and consultants say that it will take at least another generation of new leaders to bring the golden era of the golden parachute to an end. Sitting chief executives are reluctant to renegotiate. And it is investors -- not board members -- who foot the severance bill, giving directors little incentive to rein in the payouts. 
 ''It would be interesting if the guys who were on the compensation committee were writing the checks,'' said Michael S. Kesner, a consultant at Deloitte & Touche.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 15, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article in the pay report about exit packages for ousted chief executives misstated a salary equivalent of the average severance in 2006. That average, $9 million, was equivalent to about 170 weeks of salary for each year, not each week, at the helm.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bruce E. Karatz was to receive about $114 million when he lost his job as KB Home's chief executive, but the payout was frozen by the courts. (Photo by KB Home)
When Home Depot let Robert L. Nardelli go after six years, he floated away with a $210 million parachute. The stock price was less buoyant. (Photo by Louis Lanzano/Associated Press)
 William McGuire was forced from the UnitedHealth Group amid stock-option questions. His $1.1 billion payout is in legal limbo. (Photo by Eric Miller/Associated Press)Chart: ''Marching Orders''The chief executives of at least 35 Fortune 1000 companies were forced out in 2006, taking with them nearly $800 million, including $296 million in severance.David J. EdmondsonRadioShackSteps down as C.E.O. after: 9 months, lying on his resumeTotal exit package: $1.2 millionSeverance payments: $1.0 millionDouglas A. PertzHarman Intl.Steps down as C.E.O. after: 4 months, fitting in poorlyTotal exit package: 3.8Severance payments: 3.8John T. SchuesslerWendy'sSteps down as C.E.O. after: 5.1 years, poor same-store salesTotal exit package: 5.8Severance payments: 3.0Mary L. ForteZaleSteps down as C.E.O. after: 3.5 years, new strategy failsTotal exit package: 7.2Severance payments: 4.9William S. KirschConsecoSteps down as C.E.O. after: 1.8 years, sharp decline in quarterly resultsTotal exit package: 12.3Severance payments: 11.6Peter R. DolanBristol-Myers SquibbSteps down as C.E.O. after: 5.3 years, a federal investigationTotal exit package: 15.5Severance payments: 2.6Mark WeberPhillips-Van HeusenSteps down as C.E.O. after: 8 months, clashing with board, investorsTotal exit package: 26.2Severance payments: 10.5Todd S. NelsonApollo GroupSteps down as C.E.O. after: 5.3 years, results start to falterTotal exit package: 35.9Severance payments: 18.0Martin G. McGuinnMellon Fin.Steps down as C.E.O. after: 7.1 years, forced into early retirementTotal exit package: 63.8Severance payments: 11.0Jay S. Sidhu SovereignBancorpSteps down as C.E.O. after: 17.6 years, investors wage a proxy battleTotal exit package: 73.5Severance payments: 25.8Hank McKinnellPfizerSteps down as C.E.O. after: 6.0 years, investor outcry over pensionTotal exit package: 198.8Severance payments: 34.2(Source by James F. Reda & Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (93%); SEVERANCE PAY (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); RESIGNATIONS (88%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); MERGERS (78%); STOCK OPTIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (75%); JEWELRY (75%); LOTTERIES (74%); DISMISSALS (72%); CONTRACTS LAW (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (70%); APPROVALS (68%); PERSONAL FINANCE (66%); SALARY SURVEYS (60%) Executives and Management; Wages and Salaries

COMPANY: ZALE CORP (83%); SANTANDER HOLDINGS USA INC (69%); RADIOSHACK CORP (56%)

TICKER: ZLC (NYSE) (83%); RSH (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (83%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (69%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (56%)

PERSON: BOB NARDELLI (59%) Eric Dash

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



142 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1416 words

HEADLINE: Ready for the Worst: Here Come the Bears

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN

 BODY:
THE bears burst out of hibernation on Feb. 27, erasing the stock markets' year-to-date gains and raising investors' fears that the road ahead would be rough. 
 ''I'm very pessimistic and very convinced that there will be very hard times -- equal to the 1930s,'' said David W. Tice, perhaps the most prominent bear fund manager. ''This has been an incredibly long bull market,'' he said, one fueled by a ''credit-induced boom.''
 He describes the current problems in the subprime mortgage market as the ''first chink in the armor'' and foresees a long bear market ahead. 
 Investment managers and analysts generally disagree on several counts with Mr. Tice -- whose Dallas-based firm manages the Prudent Bear fund and the Prudent Global Income fund. They have far more faith that the American financial and economic systems will weather any squalls and they contend that in the long term, well-structured, diversified portfolios of stocks and bonds tailored to meet individual investment goals will do well. 
 These analysts are also wary of investors' ability to ''time the market'' -- to buy at the trough and sell at the peak or, in the case of bear market funds, to buy when the market is high and get out when it nears bottom. 
 ''Don't start moving things around when they look ugly in the short term,'' said Tim Kochis, president of Kochis Fitz, a wealth management firm in San Francisco. A bear market can end as suddenly as it begins, leaving people who suddenly shift assets in a losing position.
 ''If anyone had timed the market successfully, we'd know,'' he added. ''The only famous investors are long-term strategic investors.'' 
 David Kathman, a mutual fund analyst at Morningstar, said of bear market funds: ''Basically most people don't need these funds and shouldn't be messing around with them. They are very volatile.'' The market fell 3 percent at the end of February, he said, ''so there is a temptation to panic, to try to time the market. If the market goes up, they get killed.''
 Mr. Kathman called Mr. Tice ''a longtime prophet of doom.'' Nevertheless, he added, Mr. Tice was prescient in calling the 1999 bubble in technology stocks long before most analysts did. That was the same year when Mr. Tice cited problems of ''accounting intrigue'' at Tyco International, then a Wall Street favorite. 
 On Morningstar's Web site, Mr. Kathman describes Prudent Bear as ''the best of the bear-market funds.'' It stands out because of its long-term performance, posting a 5.5 percent annualized total return over the five years through March, the only bear market fund tracked by Morningstar with positive five-year results. (The category's average was a decline of 9.7 percent, annualized.) Prudent Bear showed a total return of 2.6 percent in the first quarter, well above the category average of 0.7 percent. It returned 9.1 percent in 2006, well below the 15.8 percent total return of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, but in marked contrast to most bear market funds, which lost 8.9 percent, on average.
 Prudent Bear, while focused on performing well in bear markets, managed to make money in good times because Mr. Tice and his associates manage it actively, selecting what to hold and what to short. Most bear market funds are managed strictly to perform in an inverse or double-inverse relationship to popular indexes like the Dow Jones industrial average or the S.& P. 500.
 In the first quarter this year, the UltraBear inverse fund from ProFunds, which is intended to return double the inverse of the S.& P. 500 index, returned 0.9 percent. The Inverse Dynamic S.& P. 500-H, a fund from Rydex that is intended to provide twice the inverse of the daily performance of the S.& P. 500, also lagged Prudent Bear with a negative return of 1.2 percent. But over the five-year period, annualized, the UltraBear inverse fund had a loss of 12.7 percent, while the Rydex fund lost 10.5 percent.
 All the funds are no-load, but ProFunds requires a minimum investment of $15,000 in self-directed accounts, well above Prudent Bear's $2,000 and the Rydex fund's $2,500.
 Like managers of the bear market funds that correlate inversely to indexes, the Tice group shorts stock index futures -- that is, it sells borrowed holdings, repaying the debt with holdings bought later, presumably when prices are lower. But unlike those inverse funds, Prudent Bear also shorts particular stocks that Mr. Tice sees as especially vulnerable, and 18 percent of the portfolio is long in stocks of precious-metals companies. The fund also has ''lots of cash'' and Treasury issues, Mr. Tice said. If the portfolio performs as he expects in the bear market he foresees, it could be an encore: in 2002, Prudent Bear led its category with a gain of 62.9 percent. 
 Mr. Tice forecasts a 50 percent to 60 percent decline in the market over the next two years. ''What we have is gross credit excess'' on both the personal and national levels, he said, and credit excesses fuel the speculative manias of classic boom-bust cycles. ''Individuals are using their homes as an A.T.M. machine with home equity loans,'' he added.
 When the credit bubble bursts, both real estate and stock prices will fall, as will consumer spending, and jobs will be lost, he said.
 The international situation is also precarious, in his view. ''We are dependent on Japan, China, Russia, the Middle East to buy our debt,'' he said. His second fund, Prudent Global Income, is essentially a bet against the dollar. It is invested in foreign and American Treasury debt and in gold and gold stocks. The fund returned 8.9 percent in the 12 months through March, 1.6 percentage points ahead of the world bond category, which it has outperformed over the past five years, as well, with an annualized total return of 9.41 percent. In the first quarter, its return of 1 percent was below the category average of 1.3 percent. 
 Despite the relatively strong long-term records of Mr. Tice's funds, few market professionals are ready to embrace his dismal forecast.
 ''Look at history and look at logic,'' Mr. Kochis said, pointing out that over time the market's general trend has been up. 
 Michael Stolper, head of Stolper & Company, a San Diego investment management company, said he took a different path to defending portfolios against bear markets. He described the approach of the bear funds -- selling short or buying puts -- as tactical. ''It's like praying for a plague of locusts,'' he said.
 Mr. Stolper described his own approach as strategic, using fixed-income markets as a defense against bear markets. The fixed-income portion of a portfolio should be tailored to produce an individual's income needs, he said, and the equity portion should be used ''to build an endowment -- for retirement, for children or charity.'' The equity portion of capital is at risk, he said, ''and is going to get ambushed from time to time,'' adding that markets historically have risen about two-thirds of the time.
 KURT BROUWER, president of Brouwer & Janachowski, an investment advisory firm in Tiburon, Calif., said the problem with market timing is that ''you have to be right on timing, the direction and the duration -- that is very difficult.'' He added, ''The market's big moves up are often shortly after a downturn.''
 ''There are other ways to reduce volatility and yet get solid returns,'' Mr. Brouwer said. Bond funds are one category that has a counterbalancing effect, he said. He also uses stock funds with a particular strategic focus to offset risk in equity funds that correlate more closely to the overall market.
 The strategic funds he uses include the Merger fund, which seeks steady arbitrage profits from mergers and acquisitions; the Wintergreen fund, a world stock fund that Morningstar describes as ''a hedge-fund-like mutual fund with a veteran manager,'' David J. Winters; and the Legg Mason Opportunity Trust, which has done very well over the long term by relying on the idiosyncratic choices of the value manager Bill Miller. 
 ''We've found it works well,'' Mr. Brouwer said of his approach. ''It reduces those white-knuckle times.''
 Geoffrey H. Bobroff, a mutual fund industry consultant based in East Greenwich, R.I., said that a market correction is ''a wake-up call to investors to rethink asset allocation.''
 But, speaking as everyman, Mr. Bobroff cautioned: ''I don't know if this correction is a short-term bear market or long-term. If I put the hedge on now, I may have missed the opportunity.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: David W. Tice, manager of the Prudent Bear fund, has been called ''a longtime prophet of doom,'' but correctly predicted the tech bust. (Photo by Mark Graham for The New York Times)Chart: ''One Growls, One Whimpers''Over the last five years, the Prudent Bear fund has returned about as much as the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, but has far outpaced the UltraBear fund from ProFunds.Graph tracks monthly returns for Prudent Bear fund and Profunds Ultrabear since 2002.Graph tracks daily returns for Prudent Bear fund and Profunds Ultrabear since January.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); BONDS (78%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (70%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (50%)

TICKER: TYC (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (50%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (71%) TEXAS, USA (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



143 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: Home Loans: A Nightmare Grows Darker

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
SNAZZY and newfangled mortgage loans, like those with low initial rates of interest or extended terms of 40 or 50 years, helped to drive homeownership rates in the United States from around 64 percent two decades ago to a peak of almost 70 percent in recent years. Called ''affordability loans,'' these new kinds of mortgages have gone mostly to first-time home buyers and borrowers with tarnished credit or spotty employment histories. 
 Now, however, with home foreclosures and mortgage delinquencies soaring, it is becoming clear that the innovative loans that lenders championed -- in what the industry called the ''democratization of credit'' -- are turning the American dream of homeownership into a nightmare for many borrowers.
Even though these subprime mortgages account for only one-eighth of total mortgages outstanding, they represent 60 percent of foreclosures, according to the Center for Responsible Lending, a nonprofit and nonpartisan research organization in Durham, N.C. This is not surprising, since the features common to subprime mortgages actually increase the risk of foreclosure, mortgage experts say. 
 ''The subprime market should be an additional and welcome opening of the credit markets for borrowers who have previously been shut out,'' said Michael D. Calhoun, president of the center. ''But it has been allowed and even encouraged to develop in a way that we think will result in a net loss of homeownership.''
 For years, the homeownership rate in the United States ranged from 60 to 65 percent of the total population. But in 1995, President Bill Clinton directed Henry G. Cisneros, then the secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, to work with the housing industry, nonprofit groups and other government officials to develop the National Homeownership Strategy, ''an unprecedented public-private partnership to increase homeownership to a record-high level over the next six years,'' as described in an Urban Policy Brief in August of that year. 
 Citing studies showing that high rates of homeownership generate financial wealth for borrowers, reduce crime and stimulate economic growth, the group agreed to a list of initiatives. One was to make financing arrangements for borrowers more affordable and flexible. 
 Lenders were off to the races. They created slick new mortgage products with low ''teaser'' interest rates that ratcheted up significantly after two years or so. They devised loans that required only the payment of interest, not principal as well. They extended mortgages to 50-year terms to reduce monthly payments.
 The partnership succeeded. In 2004, the homeownership rate reached 69.2 percent, a record. 
 As recently as January, even as delinquencies among subprime mortgages had risen, the Mortgage Bankers Association, a lobbying group, praised the role that the loans played in bolstering homeownership. ''The availability of nontraditional mortgage products is a positive development because these products increase the financing choices available to borrowers,'' the group said in a report. 
 But according to experts on lending practices, the products devised to propel homeownership did so only as long as housing prices kept rising. Now that prices have started to fall, these products look instead like a transfer of wealth to mortgage lenders from those who can least afford it: subprime borrowers.
 ''It's not good to put somebody into a home if they can only afford it when home prices go up,'' said Thomas A. Lawler, founder of Lawler Economic and Housing Consulting Daily, a newsletter. ''Now that prices are falling, the folks who made enormous amounts of money lending in 2003, 2004 and 2005 are giving some of it back. But they aren't giving it back to the poor borrowers.''
 Comparing prime and subprime loans shows how different the two types can be, Mr. Lawler said. 
 Loans made to borrowers with good credit histories, for example, rarely generate prepayment penalties when the loans are refinanced. But 70 percent of subprime loans have such penalties, he said. And they are hefty -- typically involving six months' worth of interest.
 On a $250,000 loan with a current interest rate of around 8 percent, a prepayment penalty would be $10,000. Because many subprime borrowers do not have that kind of money lying around, lenders typically offer to roll the amount into the new loan offered in a refinancing. Tacking on such penalties to new loans makes it even harder for borrowers to pay them off.
 Another characteristic of subprime loans, Mr. Lawler said, is that they rarely have escrow accounts. These accounts are established to collect money over long periods to cover real estate taxes and insurance. 
 ''For the riskiest borrowers you take away a feature of a mortgage that is designed to force savings -- why?'' he asked.
 CRITICS point to two possible reasons: without property taxes added to the mix, the mortgage payments look lower than they otherwise would. In addition, the absence of an escrow account in a subprime loan often means a big tax bill that cannot be paid unless the borrower undergoes another expensive financing, with all those fees attached.
 Finally, subprime loans with low initial rates that reset at much higher rates almost force refinancings, generating fees for lenders but often putting borrowers in a hole. Now, for instance, subprime loans that reset after two years have interest rates based on the London Interbank Offered Rate of interest, or Libor, which now stands at about 5 percent, plus 6 percentage points. 
 It is almost impossible for subprime borrowers to get lower rates on their mortgages given such reset rates, Mr. Lawler said. ''A subprime A.R.M. borrower,'' he said, one with an adjustable-rate mortgage ''with an initial rate of 8 percent for the first two years would face an upward adjustment on her mortgage unless the Fed cut its short-term rate target to 2 percent.
 ''These loans are designed to make borrowers refinance and keep the loan production mill churning,'' Mr. Lawler said.
 Mr. Calhoun of the Center for Responsible Lending said that few borrowers, subprime or not, would be able to survive a reset shock that increased their monthly payments by as much as 50 percent. Ditto for serial refinancing deals that generate fees of 6 to 10 percent of the total loan value each time.
 ''Probably the majority of homeowners who have been in their house for a while could not afford payments on those loans,'' he said. 
 While subprime borrowers try to climb out of the holes they fell into, those who sold and packaged the loans are laughing all the way to the bank. ''Folks who ran these companies are going to walk away not just unscathed but extraordinarily well rewarded,'' Mr. Calhoun said. 
 Josh Rosner, a managing director at Graham Fisher, an investment research firm in New York and an expert on mortgage securities, says he has watched with interest and exasperation as the same groups of people who pushed for higher homeownership rates now recommend ill-conceived bailouts. He also believes that the current system creates incentives for people to strip equity from their homes rather than use their mortgages as a forced savings device. 
 ''If you're trying to do social engineering, it should be to put people in homes so they can build up equity as a cushion for economic shock,'' Mr. Rosner said. ''But unless they have significant equity, they are not homeowners; they are renters. We've created a society where we love the term homeownership, yet we can't allow people to understand that they are being taken advantage of by the term.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); MORTGAGE LOANS (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); FORECLOSURE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (88%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (68%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (68%); CITY LIFE (68%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (67%); CITIES (63%) Housing; Mortgages; Credit

ORGANIZATION: Center for Responsible Lending (Orgn)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (55%) Gretchen Morgenson

GEOGRAPHIC: DURHAM, NC, USA (56%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



144 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: A (Relatively) Good Quarter for Foreign Stocks

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
OWNERS of American blue chips found the first quarter eventful if unprofitable. Investors in overseas stock markets had more to show for their wandering spirit as those markets continued a long run of outperformance. 
 The Morgan Stanley Capital International World Index, excluding the United States, ended the quarter up 3.5 percent, easily beating the 0.2 percent gain of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.
The relative resilience may comfort investors in overseas markets. Even so, after four years of strong gains and several weeks of nervous trading in markets worldwide, managers of international portfolios counsel vigilance.
 Many are turning attention to companies that they expect to be relatively immune from further market turbulence. They are gravitating toward industries where earnings stability is virtually assured, like health care, food and drink, retailing and tobacco, because they provide products that consumers need or want enough to keep buying regardless of the economic climate. 
 Other selections are companies in any industry that have financial strength their rivals lack or that are taking aggressive steps to improve profitability. The picks tend to share one feature: they have been overlooked or even avoided by investors, often for several years.
 Gilman Gunn, manager of the Evergreen International Equity fund, has long admired ''big consumer-staples companies that have global reach.'' These companies were not the most lucrative path to profit as the global economy and stock markets were moving ahead without interruption, but their stocks have been paying off lately.
 During the market decline in late February and part of March, consumer staples stocks ''outperformed by a considerable margin,'' he noted.
 William Fries, co-manager of Thornburg International Value, is another who prefers ''consistent earners'' in an iffy climate. His favorites include Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, the Israeli manufacturer of generic drugs; Next, the British clothing retailer; and Rogers Communications, the Canadian cable television company -- all of which, he said, are reasonably well insulated from problems in the broader economy. Even when the economy is on less-than-firm footing, he said, ''people are not going to stop paying their cable bill.''
 They are not going to stop eating and drinking, either, an attraction of many businesses that Mr. Gunn prefers, including Unilever, the British-Dutch maker of food and household products; Cadbury Schweppes, the British food and drink company; and Carrefour, the French retailer.
 Also in their favor, he said, is their willingness to take steps to reinvent themselves after years of disappointing investors. He applauds the efforts of these companies and others in different sectors, like Siemens of Germany and Michelin of France, to revamp operations. The shares stand a good chance of advancing if restructuring efforts succeed, Mr. Gunn said.
 And maybe even if they do not. The companies' low valuations leave them ripe for takeover bids, another factor that should put a floor under their stocks, he said. ''Time is short for these guys,'' he remarked. ''It's really close to the point where if they don't do it, others will.''
 AS far as Christopher Semenuk, manager of the TIAA-CREF International Equity fund, is concerned, time has already run out for Unilever, Siemens and others that he dismisses as serial restructurers.
 ''We almost never own those kinds of companies,'' he said. ''They are typical restructuring companies and are not performance-oriented.'' Instead of overhauling their operations to enhance growth, he said, they ''always try to acquire their way out of trouble, and they always seem to pay too much.''
 When discussing the companies he prefers, Mr. Semenuk sounds more like their shrink than their shareholder. ''We're focused on companies that are self-help-oriented,'' he said. When they take steps to ''uncover or realize value in their businesses, they're doing things that they're in control of and that the market is less in control of.''
 Examples include Reckitt Benckiser, the British maker of household products, which he credits with continually replenishing its repertoire of products and increasing sales at a faster clip than rivals, and Danone, the French producer of yogurt and other foods. ''Danone is a perfect example of a management that does restructure,'' he said. ''They're always getting rid of businesses that they don't see a future in and plowing money back into businesses where they do see a future.''
 Referring to the company's fast earnings growth, he said, ''It's not a cheap stock, but you get more than what you pay for.''
 These companies happen to sell consumer staples, but Mr. Semenuk, unlike Mr. Gunn, has no special affection for the sector. What makes Danone and Reckitt safe, Mr. Semenuk said, is not so much what they make as how they make it.
 ''There are good defensives and bad defensives,'' he said. ''People need to eat, but if companies never grow, how is that defensive?''
 Other safe choices that he highlighted include Bayer, the German health care and chemical business; Accor, the French hotel company; and Kao, a Japanese maker of household and personal care products.
 As in other facets of life, the best defense for an investor can be a good offense. For Mr. Fries at Thornburg, that means buying Western companies that do big business in emerging markets. Even if growth slows around the globe, his reasoning goes, it is still likely to be stronger in emerging markets than in the developed world. An example is PotashCorp, based in Saskatchewan, which is finding healthy demand for its fertilizer in emerging economies.
 Mr. Fries cited China Mobile, that country's dominant provider of cellphone service, as a company that combines the safety of a utility with the growth prospects available in emerging markets. It has 300 million subscribers, he said, and is adding 3 million to 4 million a month.
 ''China Mobile will have a growing inventory of subscribers at revenue rates that over time will expand,'' he predicted. As a national corporate champion in a country where free-market principles are not always applied rigorously, he added, it may also benefit from government assistance in acquiring radio frequencies and infrastructure for its network.
 Mark Headley, manager of Matthews Pacific Tiger and other Asia funds, advises investors in the region to ''look for quality assets that have gotten ahead of themselves.'' He says he has been finding them in markets like Thailand and South Korea that are reasonably valued yet have been buffeted lately, along with far more richly priced markets like China.
 If some of the cheaper stock markets ''take a 20 percent haircut,'' he said, ''they'll start to look very exciting.''
 When conditions are unsettled, Hugh Young, head of equities at Aberdeen Asset Management, says he finds the best havens to be companies with ''strong balance sheets and robust business models.'' 
 His choices include Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation, known as OCBC Bank, of Singapore; Swire Pacific, a Hong Kong conglomerate; QBE, the Australian insurer; Femsa, the Mexican beverage company; Banco Santander of Chile and Petroleo Brasileiro, the giant Brazilian oil company.
 Mr. Young said he was having trouble finding safe investments in emerging markets because so many of his peers were looking for them. ''The trouble is that the shares prices of many of the classically defensive stocks have risen,''he said. ''Ultimate safety may lie only in cash.''
 Americans who choose to stay in stocks may start seeking safety closer to home, Mr. Semenuk said. Although foreign markets have shown resilience this year, he wonders how long investors will stick with them if conditions remain difficult.
 ''When people are confident, they go to Europe, then when they feel really good they go to Asia,'' he said. ''Then in times of trouble they head back the other way. People always migrate westward in times of trouble.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Carrefour store in Paris, right, and a high-speed train at the Siemens plant in Krefeld, Germany, above. One manager praised both companies' revamping efforts. (Photo by Marcus Gloger for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Antoine Antonio/Bloomberg News)(pg. 33) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RETAILERS (88%); FOOD & BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); CREDIT BUREAUS (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (74%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (73%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (68%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (67%); GENERIC DRUGS (65%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: TEVA PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRIES LTD (65%); ROGERS COMMUNICATIONS INC (53%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (51%); CADBURY LTD (51%); SIEMENS AG (50%)

TICKER: TEVA (TASE) (65%); TEVA (NYSE) (65%); RCI.A (TSX) (53%); RCI (NYSE) (53%); UNIA (AMS) (51%); UNA (BIT) (51%); UNA (AMS) (51%); UN (NYSE) (51%); ULVR (LSE) (51%); UL (NYSE) (51%); SIN (SWX) (50%); SIE (LSE) (50%); SIE (FRA) (50%); SIE (BIT) (50%); SI (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (65%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (65%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (53%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (53%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (53%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (51%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311340 NONCHOCOLATE CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (51%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (50%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (51%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (87%); NETHERLANDS (51%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



145 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: A Rough Ride Ends Where It Started

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
INVESTORS' smooth and profitable stock market ride hit a nasty speed bump in February and finished the first quarter just about where it started. 
 The choppiness was caused by a familiar group of concerns: a slowing American economy, rising problems with risky mortgages and signs that fast-growing emerging markets like China and India might be due for a correction.
Major American stock indexes and indexes for many Asian markets -- though not the Shanghai stock exchange that led February's global sell-off -- were either flat or down for the quarter. European stocks fared better, but their returns for the quarter were lower than the gains they put up in the second half of last year.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, up 6.2 percent in the fourth quarter of 2006, was up just 0.2 percent in the first quarter this year. The Dow Jones industrial average, up 6.7 percent in the fourth quarter, lost 0.9 percent in the first quarter. 
 Investors, for their part, were left wondering whether this was the beginning of the end of the four-year bull market that started in October 2002, or simply a pause.
 After all, the market overcame a wrenching period of soul-searching in May and June of last year when the Federal Reserve was at the end of a two-year campaign to raise interest rates and the housing boom had started to fade. The concerns that dominated the minds of investors then, however, did not linger, and the market had a solid second half.
 Many market specialists assert that the current concerns will play out similarly. Weaknesses like those in the market for subprime mortgages issued to borrowers with weak credit will not threaten the broader financial markets, these experts say, because the world economy is growing, corporate profits are rising and consumers with good credit are not defaulting at high rates.
 ''Even a soft landing has some bumps,'' said Jerry Webman, the senior investment officer and chief economist at OppenheimerFunds. ''The market is trying to figure out just how deep those bumps and potholes are going to be.''
 Mr. Webman is generally upbeat about the prospects for stocks and the global economy, but he has advised investors to protect themselves from a sell-off in riskier investments by buying higher-quality bonds.
 Mutual fund investors may have had it better than the lackluster results of the major stock indexes would suggest. Over all, funds that invest in domestic stocks were up 2.2 percent, international stock funds were up 3.4 percent and taxable bond funds were up 1.7 percent, according to Morningstar. The markets got off to a strong start last week, with a gain in the Dow of 1.7 percent. 
 Some strategists, however, say they believe that there are reasons for greater caution. In this view, the problems that have emerged in the housing market could crop up elsewhere, including commodities and stock markets in emerging-market countries, which have been bid up by much speculation.
 Marc D. Stern, the chief investment officer at Bessemer Trust, has been more skeptical than most strategists on Wall Street. He believes that investors should avoid risky assets like emerging-market stocks and shares of energy companies, as well as those of smaller companies in general.
 He prefers larger companies, and stocks in the developed world that are profiting from the growth in fast-growing developing countries. He also likes certain commodities -- coffee, cotton and cocoa, for example -- that he says remain good bargains relative to oil and natural gas.
 ''We are in for some meaningful volatility for the next several years, and none of us should be surprised by that,'' Mr. Stern said. ''There are lots of uncertainties to ponder.''
 The Chicago Board of Trade's VIX index, which measures volatility based on investors' use of options on the S.& P. 500-stock index, spiked in early March from historically low levels, though it has fallen back somewhat since then.
 Not surprisingly, investors have turned to more defensive sectors of the market to cushion the bumpier ride they are now encountering.
 Mutual funds that specialize in utilities were up 8 percent in the first quarter, on average, driven partly by the private equity buyout of TXU, the Texas utility. Funds specializing in natural resources were up 5.7 percent and communications funds were up 3.9 percent, on average, according to Morningstar.
 ''When you look at the higher-quality names, they have tended to do well,'' said Robert C. Doll, vice chairman at BlackRock, the asset management company.
 That is not to say that investors have become entirely risk averse. 
 The VIX index, for example, even at its recent heights, is below its level during the bull market of the late 1990s and 2000.
 Furthermore, medium- and small-capitalization companies again outperformed larger-cap stocks in the first quarter, even as many market specialists were warning investors to stick with large caps because big companies tend to weather tougher economic times better.
 ''Everybody is saying it, but nobody must be doing it, because it hasn't happened,'' Mr. Webman of Oppenheimer said about shifting focus to large-cap stocks.
 THE Russell 2000 index, which tracks the performance of 2000 smaller and mid-cap stocks, ended the quarter up 1.7 percent. That compares with a 0.8 percent gain for the Russell 1000 index, which tracks the 1,000 biggest companies in the stock market.
 The Hennessey Focus 30 fund, which has $233 million under management, uses a formula to pick 30 mid-cap companies with market capitalizations of $1 billion to $10 billion. It chalked up a 9.7 percent return in the quarter. The fund's second-biggest stock holding, the Albemarle Corporation, a chemical maker, closed the quarter up 15.15 percent.
 ''The market is in great shape,'' said Neil J. Hennessy, who manages the fund and is president of Hennessy Funds. He said stocks were much cheaper, per dollar of earnings and sales, than they were during the late 1990s.
 Yet strong earnings and sales growth did little to help financial stocks that were exposed to the troubled housing market. Funds specializing in financial stocks closed down 1.8 percent during the quarter.
 The Muhlenkamp fund, which has $2.3 billion under management, ended the first quarter down 3.9 percent. It was hurt by its large positions in Countrywide Financial, Merrill Lynch and Citigroup. The shares of Countrywide, the nation's largest mortgage lender, fell 20.8 percent in the first quarter because investors were concerned that the problems in subprime mortgages would spread to the higher-quality loans that make up the bulk of the company's business.
 Ronald H. Muhlenkamp, who manages the fund and is president of the investment management firm Muhlenkamp & Company, said he still had faith in Countrywide and the other financial stocks he owned, but he acknowledged that it was hard to know precisely how bad things would become in the mortgage market.
 Mr. Muhlenkamp said he stood by a prediction he made late last year that the odds of a soft landing for the economy were 50 percent and becoming better. He said the challenge for investors was to invest for the long term and not to be swayed by short-term market swings.
 ''It takes a little patience and a little guts,'' he said, ''but we think you will get paid for it.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Strategists differ on whether the problems in housing are a threat to the broader financial markets. (Photo by David J. Phillip/Associated Press)(pg. 32)Drawing (Drawing by Tim Robinson)(pg. 29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BONDS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); BOND FUNDS (79%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (79%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (77%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: OPPENHEIMERFUNDS INC (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (81%); SIC6733 TRUSTS, EXCEPT EDUCATIONAL, RELIGIOUS, & CHARITABLE (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (77%) EAST CHINA (58%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



146 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; RE: FRAMING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1519 words

HEADLINE: How to Confine the Plants of the Future?

BYLINE: By DENISE CARUSO. 
Denise Caruso is executive director of the Hybrid Vigor Institute, which studies collaborative problem-solving. E-mail: dcaruso@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
A NEW generation of genetically engineered crops that produce drugs and chemicals is fast approaching the market -- bringing with it a new wave of concerns about the safety of the global food and feed supply.
 The plants produce medicinal substances like insulin, anticoagulants and blood substitutes. They produce vaccine proteins for diseases like cholera, as well as antibodies against tooth decay and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Enzymes and other chemicals from the plants can be used for a range of industrial processes.
As in past debates over genetically modified crops, biotech developers say that the benefits outweigh the risks, and that the risks are manageable. Critics question the benefits, and say the risk of a contaminated and potentially toxic food supply is untenable. 
 In the middle, balancing economic benefit and public safety, are our appointed arbiters of risk, the government regulators. 
 Controversies over biotech risk are caused by a crisis in ''official scientific expertise,'' according to Jerome Ravetz, an associate fellow at the James Martin Institute for Science and Civilization at the University of Oxford. 
 The crisis, he said, stems from the conflicting roles of government. On one side, businesses provide regulators with scientific evidence about the risk and safety of their product innovations. On the other, suspicious citizens demand that regulators challenge that evidence. 
 The side whose expertise is accepted as ''official'' calls the shots.
 So far, the business sector has tipped the scales in its favor. Despite science-based concerns voiced by farmers, environmentalists and even its own researchers, the United States Department of Agriculture has approved more than 100 applications to grow so-called biopharma crops of corn, soybeans, barley, rice, safflower and tobacco in the United States. 
 Developers say these crops are the best way to achieve the economies of scale and cost savings that will let them meet rising demand for drugs like human insulin. 
 They acknowledge that growing pharmaceutical crops is riskier than making drugs in factories. They know that the plants contain potentially toxic drugs and chemicals, and because they look like ordinary crops, they can be mistaken for food, both before and after harvest. 
 The most important thing, then, is to keep biopharma plants, pollen and seeds confined to the fields where they are planted. Otherwise, they may contaminate other crops, wild relatives and the environment. 
 Developers say they have worked with the Agriculture Department to develop containment procedures for biopharma crops.
 ''Under our system, the degree of oversight is commensurate with the risk of the crops,'' said John Turner, director of the policy coordination program for the agency's Biotechnology Regulatory Services. ''We take extraordinary measures to make sure these pharma and industrial crops are kept separate and confined.''
 To this end, some developers use plants like rice and safflower that self-pollinate, reducing the risk of contaminating nonpharma plants by wind and insect pollination. 
 They also provide regulators with data on the potential health and environmental effects of the special chemicals in their crops. 
 For example, SemBioSys, a Canadian company, has applied to the U.S.D.A. for permits to grow safflower-based human insulin. It is already field-testing safflower crops in the United States and Chile that produce carp growth hormone for aquaculture feed, to bolster the weak immune systems of farmed shrimp. 
 The company's chief executive, Andrew Baum, says ''categorically'' that the insulin derived from its plants has no biological effects while in plant form, and is activated only after processing. And the evidence his company has gathered indicates that its carp growth hormone affects only shrimp. 
 The new methods, Mr. Baum said, can cut capital costs by 70 percent, and ''reach levels of scale easier than any other system.''
 But there is some scientific evidence not acknowledged in biopharma risk assessments that casts a dark cloud over this silver lining. 
 For starters, the ''system'' under discussion is nature, and despite our best efforts it always manages to elude our puny attempts at controlling it. The containment practices used by developers assume an ability to control living and propagating organisms, which scientific evidence does not support.
 One scientist familiar with some of the issues raised by pharma crops is Norman C. Ellstrand, a professor in the department of genetics at the University of California, Riverside, and director of its Biotechnology Impacts Center. Professor Ellstrand is known as a fair and credible critic of various aspects of agricultural biotechnology.
 He is deeply skeptical that efforts to confine biopharma genes in open fields will work. 
 ''I don't think that engineering plants for pharma is a bad idea, with two caveats,'' Professor Ellstrand said. One, he says he thinks that planting should be done in greenhouses rather than in open fields. ''The other issue is food,'' he said. ''Why do we have to do this in food crops? It doesn't matter what you're squeezing the compound out of. It could be a carnation, a corn plant or a castor bean.'' 
 Professor Ellstrand also said that self-pollination does not eliminate gene flow between plants, and that cross-pollination is not the only way that pharma crops can escape confinement. Once harvested, seeds can move easily, accidentally or deliberately, across and beyond borders. As a result, valuable biopharma crops may well end up growing in fields far from the controlled environment on which developers depend for safety. And what happens from there is anyone's guess. 
 Once the rogue seeds are replanted, could the plants thrive in their new home and possibly overtake native varieties or wild relatives? Could the pharma trait increase in frequency and concentration, until it reaches a ''dose'' that causes health effects in those who consume it unwittingly? The probability for any one of these situations may be low, Professor Ellstrand said, but the scientific answer to each question is yes. 
 What is most worrisome is that the Agriculture Department seems to reject such reasonable, science-based public safety concerns. Agency policy allows developers to withhold data on pharma crops from the public as confidential business information, and the public is not allowed to comment on biopharma planting applications until after an official risk evaluation is completed.
 Such behavior has raised the hackles of many farmers and food producers who are concerned about biopharma crops. Rice farmers, in particular, know what happens when a food crop is contaminated with unapproved genes. The U.S.D.A has presided over two such scares in less than a year, and the rice industry has suffered greatly as it tries to purge contaminants from crops.
 AT the end of March, the Agriculture Department approved a permit allowing a California biotech company, Ventria Bioscience, to plant its pharmaceutical rice in open fields in Kansas. 
 Ventria's pharma rice is engineered to produce two of the human proteins found in breast milk and other body fluids. Once harvested, the proteins will be used in treatments for diarrhea and infections, as well as in nutritional supplements. 
 In a public comment demanding that the Agriculture Department withdraw the Ventria approval, the U.S.A. Rice Federation wrote: ''If Ventria's pharmaceutical rice were to escape into the commercial rice supply, the financial devastation to the U.S. rice industry would likely be absolute. There is no tolerance, either regulatory or in public perception, for a human gene-based pharmaceutical to end up in the world's food supply.''
 So whose market is more important: the farmers' or the drug makers'? Whose health matters more: people who need drugs or people who eat food? 
 Scientists often dismiss the idea that people without technical knowledge can help them make risk assessments. As a result, biotech scientists and regulators have long made safety determinations from within an opaque system of their own design, using only the evidence they accept as valid.
 But scientific evidence is not a constant, like the speed of light or pi. Especially in biology, where we still know so little, ''evidence'' is often just a small circle of light surrounded by the darkness of the unknown. Decisions about risk cannot safely be made in a private club that accepts only its members' notions of scientific evidence. 
 The best research on risk declares the opposite to be true: that risk evidence is particularly subject to distortion by conflicting interests, and that the best foil for such distortions is to ensure that the people whose fate is at stake participate in the analysis. 
 We need a new policy framework for scientific evidence that is built on this foundation. If developers want to sell their products, they must subject their inventions to the helpful scrutiny of people outside the club -- before radical technologies like biopharma are brought to market.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 15, 2007

 CORRECTION:
The Re:framing column last Sunday, about genetically engineered crops used in medicine, misstated the status of a proposal by Ventria Bioscience to plant its pharmaceutical rice in fields in Kansas. The Agriculture Department is evaluating comments before making a decision; it has not yet approved the permit.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Niculae Asciu) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENETIC ENGINEERING (91%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (91%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (89%); CANCER (78%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); PRODUCT SAFETY (78%); AMINO ACIDS PEPTIDES & PROTEINS (78%); ENZYMES (78%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (73%); BLOOD DERIVATIVES (73%); CORN FARMING (73%); ANTICOAGULANTS (73%); VACCINES (72%); BIOLOGICS MFG (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); IMMUNOLOGIC FACTORS (72%); TROPICAL DISEASES (72%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (71%); TOOTH DISORDERS (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (70%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (70%); APPROVALS (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (64%); LYMPHOMA (56%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (51%) Medicine and Health; Genetics and Heredity; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Agriculture; Chemicals; Flowers and Plants

PERSON: Denise Caruso

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



147 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SLIPSTREAM; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: A Giant Leap Forward in Computing? Maybe Not

BYLINE: By JASON PONTIN. 
Jason Pontin is the editor in chief and publisher of Technology Review, a magazine and Web site owned by M.I.T. E-mail: pontin@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
DID D-Wave Systems achieve the incredible -- a startling advance in computing that would radically expand human capacities for industrial activity and scientific discovery, long before experts believed it possible?
 It says it did, and many concurred. According to the company and publications like The Economist, D-Wave, a start-up company in Burnaby, British Columbia, demonstrated ''the world's first commercial quantum computer'' in February.
Something certainly happened. At a crowded event at the Computer History Museum in Mountain View, Calif., in the heart of Silicon Valley, a proud and beaming Geordie Rose, the company's founder and chief technology officer, showed how the Orion computer could search for a protein in a database and find the closest match, figure out the optimal seating arrangement for wedding guests and solve a Sudoku puzzle.
 The purpose of the demonstration, Dr. Rose told me, was ''to run commercially relevant applications on a quantum computer, which has never even been done before -- not even close.'' 
 Quantum computing is powerfully glamorous stuff: it partakes of the unworldly weirdness of quantum mechanics, and it promises a new class of quantum algorithms that could solve certain problems exponentially faster than any computer today.
 If a ''practical quantum computer'' -- as Dr. Rose, who has a doctorate in physics, often describes Orion -- had been built and demonstrated, it would be a wonderful thing: analogous, according to quantum computing's most ardent promoters, to the development of the transistor, or even the harnessing of electricity.
 But as soon as D-Wave completed its demonstration, there were indignant objections from the people who know quantum computing best: the scientists who spend their lives thinking about such a machine. That's because most academics believed that it would be many more years before anyone could construct one. 
 What was more frustrating, D-Wave provided no evidence to back up its claims: it has released only the sketchiest details about the inner workings of Orion. Something solved the problems at the demonstration, but it might not have been a quantum computer.
 Scott Aaronson, a theoretical computer scientist at the Institute for Quantum Computing at the University of Waterloo in Canada, fired the first shot. He wrote in his much-read blog, called ''Shtetl-Optimized,'' that Orion would be as useful at problem-solving as ''a roast beef sandwich.'' In an e-mail message to me, Dr. Aaronson denounced Orion as ''hype.'' He said that he could not ''think of any interpretation under which'' Dr. Rose was ''telling the truth.''
 Many quantum mechanics -- as some like to call themselves -- agree. 
 ''D-Wave is misleading the public by calling their device 'a practical quantum computer,' '' said Umesh Vazirani, a computer science professor at the University of California, Berkeley. ''The whole point of quantum computing is achieving a large speedup over classical computers, something that D-Wave hasn't accomplished.''
 Dr. Rose dismissed such criticism. He characterized D-Wave's approach as bluntly commercial: he expects the marketplace to endorse Orion and doesn't care about evaluations in peer-reviewed journals. 
 ''Our approach is to have it start solving problems; how fast it does that becomes the metric by which you're judged,'' he said. ''Compared to the academic approaches, ours is quick and dirty, although I don't think it's any less careful.''
 The high emotions inspired by the D-Wave controversy derive, perhaps, from the almost metaphysical allure of the field, an allure that has existed since the physicists Paul Benioff and Richard P. Feynman proposed the idea of quantum computing in the early 1980s. 
 In theory, a quantum computer in less than a minute could solve problems that would take millennia for a classical computer to solve. 
 For instance, a practical quantum computer could easily factor large integers, allowing them to break most cryptographic systems. A quantum computer could also simulate the behavior of nanosized structures like drug molecules; such ''quantum simulations'' would mean that biotechnologists could model drugs outside of a laboratory, potentially helping them to develop new therapies. 
 Dr. Rose is not shy about making even grander assertions. He said he believes that a bigger and better Orion computer could also speedily provide optimal solutions to difficult problems with many variables, potentially reshaping such diverse activities as investment, scheduling, logistics, and supply chain management. (Most computer scientists are more cautious: they say the dramatic speedups that Dr. Rose dreams of may be impossible with any quantum computer with a design similar to the Orion.)
 But real, useful quantum computers, for all their interest and potential, have proved fiendishly difficult to build. To date, quantum computers have been more-or-less successful lab experiments.
 D-Wave says it has succeeded where others have failed by using a simple design, derived from technologies already used to make standard computer chips. The company describes the Orion as built around a chip made from a superconducting metal called niobium, which becomes a superconductor when chilled to nearly minus 273 degrees Celsius in a bath of liquid helium.
 Herb Martin, the chief executive of D-Wave, contends that this uncomplicated design will allow the Orion to expand its computing powers so that, by mid-2008, it will be able to tackle real commercial applications. He says D-Wave would earn money by renting time on the Orion as a Web service to businesses that need the power of quantum computing. Additionally, the company might build and rent quantum machines.
 BUT does Orion work as advertised? No one knows, except for the people at D-Wave. According to the most skeptical of D-Wave's detractors, because Orion can function as a slow analog computer, it's possible that Orion was not really performing quantum operations at all when it was demonstrated at the Computer History Museum.
 Dr. Rose concedes that his machine is still primitive. ''In terms of the actual time it takes to solve problems, Orion as it currently stands is about 100 times slower than a PC running the best algorithms,'' he says. But he argues that the demonstration in February showed that quantum computing was not merely a research project, and proved that there was a real and imminent value to businesses. 
 At the very least, his investors agree. Dr. Rose has raised $44 million in funding since starting his company in 1999, attracting the backing of venture capitalists like Steve Jurvetson of Draper Fisher Jurvetson. 
 At this point, we can say that Orion may be a demonstration of a quantum computer that can solve a limited set of specific problems. One day, it may offer significant increases in speed. 
 But for now, in lieu of direct evidence, it is very slow and not very useful. When D-Wave begins to allow outsiders to play with the Orion later this year, and if its inventors explain how the marvelous machine actually works, the company's critics may become more generous.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Geordie Rose, the founder of D-Wave Systems, says he has created a commercial quantum computer. (Photo by Farah Nosh for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE NEWS (90%); QUANTUM MECHANICS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); PHYSICS (89%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (78%); HISTORY (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%); STARTUPS (57%); EXECUTIVES (55%) Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: ORION AS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: D-Wave Systems; Computer History Museum (Mountain View, Calif)

INDUSTRY: NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (61%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (61%)

PERSON: Georgdie Rose; Jason Pontin

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%) Silicon Valley (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



148 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT: STRATEGIES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: How to Find Profit Away From the Herd

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT. 
Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of MarketWatch. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
MUTUAL funds are a destabilizing force in the stock market. That's the finding of a recent study, which suggests that fund-induced volatility creates profit opportunities for investors who are willing to buy a stock after most funds have sold it, and to sell after most funds have bought.
 The study looked at the idea of ''mutual fund herding'' -- meaning an abnormally high level of mutual fund purchases or sales -- involving particular stocks in a quarter. The research found that, though prices of typical stocks bought by herds of funds shot up immediately, these stocks were barely able to beat the return of the overall market over the next year. By contrast, the price of the average stock dumped by fund herds was beaten down severely, then bounced back. 
The study, ''Analyst Recommendations, Mutual Fund Herding and Overreaction in Stock Prices,'' has circulated since late last year in academic circles. Its authors are Nerissa C. Brown, an assistant professor of accounting at the University of Southern California; Kelsey D. Wei, an assistant professor of finance at the University of Texas at Dallas; and Russell R. Wermers, an associate professor of finance at the University of Maryland. A version is at //papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract-id=972731.
 To determine whether herding occurred for a particular stock in a calendar quarter, the professors first calculated the percentage of fund transactions involving the stock that were purchases. They compared that percentage to similarly calculated averages for all stocks that mutual funds bought or sold in that quarter. Herding was said to occur when a stock's proportion deviated significantly from that overall average.
 Consider Motorola stock in the second quarter of 1997 According to the professors, 76 percent of mutual fund transactions in that stock were purchases during that quarter -- far higher than the 55 percent average for all stocks bought or sold by funds. Not surprisingly, Motorola shares soared during the quarter, gaining 26 percent -- equivalent to more than 150 percent, annualized. Over the next four quarters, however, the stock lost more than 30 percent.
 As an example of a stock dumped by a fund herd, the professors offer Ascend Communications in the fourth quarter of 1997. More than 82 percent of all mutual fund transactions involving Ascend in that quarter were sales, versus an average of 43 percent for all stocks that funds bought or sold. The stock plunged 24 percent during that quarter, but recovered smartly over the next year, gaining more than 160 percent.
 It was beyond the scope of the study to explore all reasons that fund managers would join a herd in buying or selling a stock. But one clue lies in the finding that the behavior was particularly pronounced among managers of funds whose recent performance was quite poor.
 These managers are presumably those most worried about keeping their jobs, Professor Wermers said in an interview, so they aren't inclined to go out on a limb and buy when everyone else is selling, or vice versa. Indeed, he added, herding by poorly performing funds seems a wonderful illustration of John Maynard Keynes's view that ''it is better for reputation to fail conventionally than succeed unconventionally.''
 Though the professors suspect that herding occurs on many different occasions, they focused on funds' reactions to changes in Wall Street analysts' consensus ratings of stocks.
 An example is found in funds' reactions from mid-1994 to 2003 to analysts' consensus upgrades of small stocks -- defined by the professors as the 20 percent of stocks followed by Wall Street analysts that had the smallest market capitalizations. Mutual funds bought 3.4 percent more shares of stocks with such upgrades, compared with the average stock that they traded during the same quarter. The herding was even more pronounced on the sell side after downgrades of stocks, with funds selling 8 percent more shares than the quarterly average.
 Herding had a marked effect on the prices of the stocks. Consider two hypothetical portfolios built by the professors -- the first containing the stocks that were most heavily bought by fund herds, and the second owning those that were most heavily sold.
 First, the professors calculated the portfolios' returns for the quarter when the herding occurred. On average over the nine and a half years through 2003, they found that the portfolio of stocks bought by herds beat the second portfolio by an astounding 117 percent, annualized.
 UNFORTUNATELY, the professors hasten to add, an investor would have no way to capture this huge return regularly. That's because mutual funds must divulge their holdings only quarterly, and even then with a several-week delay. As a result, we can't be immediately sure that herding has occurred.
 But that's not all. Once the quarter has ended, the professors found, the two portfolios took much different paths. Over the next 12 months, the portfolio of the heavily sold stocks outperformed the overall market by 4.5 percent, on average. It also fared markedly better than the portfolio of heavily bought stocks, which beat the market by just 0.5 percent, on average, in the year after the quarter when herding occurred.
 Individual investors could capture that 4.5 percent, since the strategy relies on publicly available information. It would be hard to reproduce the professors' approach since it involves applying complex econometric models to a database of all mutual fund holdings and transactions.
 But a simpler strategy might work. You could focus on stocks whose prices have been bid up the most after upgrades from Wall Street analysts, as well as those punished the most severely after downgrades. Though there is no guarantee that mutual fund herding was the main cause of these moves, it is a fairly safe bet that herding played a role, Professor Wei said. If you own any of the stocks that have been bid up the most, you may want to sell them, because it is unlikely that they will keep beating the market. And you may consider buying the most beaten-down shares, betting that they will soon recover. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (55%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%)

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (55%) TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



149 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: Three Ways to Shine In a Foggy Market

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD

 BODY:
IT was a lackluster quarter for the overall market, but some mutual funds made money from eclectic stock portfolios. Here, managers of three of the top-performing funds talk about their stocks, their strategies and what they see ahead in the market.A Quantitative Approach 
 The $233 million Hennessy Focus 30 fund rose 9.7 percent in the first quarter, riding the strong domestic electronics and retail sectors. The manager, Neil J. Hennessy, 51, uses a quantitative approach to pick the fund's 30 stocks. 
 He starts by screening 9,700 United States companies with market capitalizations of $1 billion to $10 billion, but excludes American depository receipts and stocks priced at less than $5 a share.
 Next, he looks for companies with price-to-sales ratios of 1.5 or less, and current earnings that exceed the previous year's, as well as for share prices that have increased over the most recent three and six months. He selects 30 companies and buys equal amounts of their shares, holding them for a year, then repeats the procedure. Currently, 30 percent of the fund's assets are invested in retail companies.
 One winner was Big Lots, the discount chain based in Columbus, Ohio, that sells product overruns, discontinued items and other closeout merchandise. Shares rose 36 percent in the quarter, partly because of the overall strength of retail stocks, Mr. Hennessy said. The strong performance also reflected the current interest of private equity firms in buying retailers, he added.
 Another winner was CommScope, a company based in Hickory, N.C., that makes cable used in communications networks. Its price-to-sales ratio was 1.29 when he bought the shares; it is now 1.58, as the company's operations have become more efficient and sales have increased. CommScope's shares rose 41 percent in the quarter.
 The fund also made money in Belden CDT of St. Louis, which produces high-speed electronics cables. Mr. Hennessy says the company is undervalued, adding that ''a lot of these types of companies are overlooked because their businesses are boring.'' Belden's stock rose 37 percent in the quarter.
 Mr. Hennessy says he thinks that the overall stock market is still very strong. ''Fundamentally, the economy is in great shape,'' he said. ''Corporate earnings are growing, albeit slowly.''Bullish Overseas
 ''I'm bullish on the global economy,'' said G. Kenneth Heebner, 66, manager of the $2.5 billion CGM Focus fund, up 9.4 percent. It holds just 19 stocks. Like Hennessy Focus, its concentrated holdings make it potentially more volatile than more diversified portfolios.
 About two-thirds of the fund's assets are tied directly to overseas activity, Mr. Heebner said. Over all, 30 percent is invested in companies that mine iron ore, copper, nickel and coal. ''Huge demand from all over the world is keeping metal prices higher than they would be normally at this point in the business cycle,'' Mr. Heebner said.
 The fund made money in Companhia Vale do Rio Doce, a Brazilian miner of nickel and iron ore. The company bought Inco in an all-cash transaction that closed in January, Mr. Heebner said, making it one of the biggest nickel producers in the world. The fund owns the company's American depository receipts, which rose 24 percent in the quarter.
 Another winner was Allegheny Technologies of Pittsburgh, a leading provider of titanium to the aerospace industry. The company also profited from strong demand for its nickel alloys, used in airplane engines, Mr. Heebner said. The stock rose 18 percent in the first quarter.
 The fund has also done well with Vimpel Communications, a Russian wireless telecommunications company, which ''is experiencing a profit surge related to the overall strength of business in Russia,'' he said. The fund holds A.D.R.'s traded on the New York Stock Exchange; for the quarter, they rose 20 percent.
 Mr. Heebner is not very bullish on the American economy. He expects a broadening of the decline in housing and a slowdown in economic growth.Small-Company Bargains
 The $38 million Westwood Mighty Mites fund, up 7 percent in the quarter, buys very small companies with market capitalizations of no more than $300 million. The fund, which holds 200 stocks, is managed by Mario J. Gabelli, 64; Walter K. Walsh, 64; and Laura Linehan, 39.
 ''We look for companies that are trading at significant discounts to what we consider to be their private market value,'' Ms. Linehan said. The fund is highly diversified across a variety of industries.
 One winner was the Epoch Holding Corporation, a money management firm in New York City with a market capitalization of about $260 million. Its shares rose 33 percent.
 The fund also made money in Sonic Innovations, based in Salt Lake City, a maker of digital hearing aids and auditory testing equipment. ''The aging of the American population is one of our investment themes,'' Ms. Linehan said. ''This company is one of the few pure plays in that area.'' Its stock rose 62 percent in the quarter.
 Another winner was Edgewater Technology, an information technology management consultant in Wakefield, Mass., with a market capitalization of less than $100 million; its shares rose 38 percent. ''It's a niche consulting company that gets a lot of clients that bigger consultants wouldn't bother with,'' Ms. Linehan said. ''Its service revenues have been increasing at a nice pace.''
 While Ms. Linehan would not comment on the overall market, she said that she expects smaller companies to ''continue benefiting from a robust mergers-and-acquisitions environment.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: G. Kenneth Heebner, manager of the CGM Focus fund, which holds just 19 stocks. ''I'm bullish on the global economy,'' he says. (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times)
At the Westwood Mighty Mites fund, Laura Linehan, a manager, says she seeks very small companies trading at significant discounts. (Photo by Alan S. Orling for The New York Times)
 Neil J. Hennessy says his Hennessy Focus 30 fund picks 30 companies at a time and holds their shares for a year, then repeats the process. (Photo by Thor Swift for The New York Times)Chart: ''Ahead of the Pack''Here is how three of the best-performing stock funds in the last quarter fared against the overall market and against their peer groups.FIRST-QUARTER RETURNSCGM Focus: +9.4%Large-cap blend: +1.0Hennessy Focus 30: +9.7%Mid-cap blend: +4.0Westwood Mighty Mites: +7.0%Small-cap value: +2.7Graphs track the daily closing prices of CGM Focus, Hennessy Focus 30 and Westwood Mighty Mites shares since January.(Sources by Morningstar Inc., Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (71%); IRON MINING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (77%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



150 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: Switching Tracks With a South Korean Pact

BYLINE: By DANIEL ALTMAN

 BODY:
THE free trade agreement the United States signed with South Korea last week could be the most important step in the nation's trade policy since the North American Free Trade Agreement went into effect 13 years ago. If Congress approves it, the slashed tariffs could lead to billions of dollars of new trade. Yet it could also symbolize a shift away from global trade negotiations, which were supposed to help poor countries to grow.
 Those negotiations, called the Doha Development Round by the World Trade Organization, have been stalled for the better part of two years. In addition, the Free Trade Area of the Americas -- a proposed regional free trade zone -- has run into substantial opposition from the new leftists of South and Central America. The bilateral option -- two-way trade deals -- is the only game in town right now. 
According to Kimberly A. Elliott, a senior fellow at the Center for Global Development and the Peterson Institute for International Economics, the Korean deal could divert trade away from the poor countries that might have benefited from a worldwide agreement -- and it also subtracts from the credibility of the W.T.O. as a viable option for opening markets.
 President Bush's trade representatives -- Robert B. Zoellick, Rob Portman and now Susan C. Schwab -- have always said that the United States would pursue a three-track approach in opening markets for American consumers and producers, seeking bilateral, regional and global free trade agreements. If progress along one track stalled, they have always said, their efforts would then be directed to the others. The bilateral agreement with South Korea is the largest payoff so far from their strategy.
 Why is it so important? South Korea ranks just behind the European Union, United States, Japan, China and Hong Kong as an exporter. It shipped $284 billion worth of merchandise in 2005, the last year for which the World Trade Organization offers global statistics. That amount, which was three times India's exports, was also equivalent to the total merchandise shipped by the world's bottom 118 economies, ranked by the same metric.
 All but 30 of those economies are also members of the W.T.O. So signing a free trade agreement with South Korea could be as economically important as signing agreements with 88 of the group's 150 members. Given the intense and growing trade relationship between the United States and South Korea, it could be even more important.
 With a couple more bilateral deals like this one, the W.T.O. could seem an afterthought, or at least not worth the effort. And, indeed, the United States has already been talking trade with Brazil, and its nuclear pact with India could open the door to economic talks. Those two nations also happen to be two crucial negotiating parties at the W.T.O., and they might be just the first countries whose attention might be seduced away from the global negotiations.
 ''Assuming that this deal is going to be passed by both houses, which is not guaranteed, then clearly Japan is going to be looking to do a deal,'' Ms. Elliott said. A free trade agreement with Japan, the world's second-biggest economy -- if you don't count the European Union, which negotiates as one party for trade -- would trump any other negotiations.
 Yet as Ms. Elliott hinted, there's still a long way to go before even the Korean agreement becomes law. Timing is not a problem, because the agreement was signed before the president's authority to submit trade pacts to Congress for an up-or-down vote expires at the end of June. But there is already some dissent among unions and automakers, who see jobs being lost to Asia, as well as members of Congress concerned that South Korea is blocking exports of American beef.
 ''It's going to be hard,'' said John B. Taylor, a professor of economics at Stanford who was under secretary of the Treasury for international affairs from 2001 to 2005. ''Some of the unions are lining up against it, and some forces are looking for some significant modification.'' That's true both in the United States and in South Korea, whose farmers, fearing the destruction of their livelihoods, have been among the most vocal opponents of free trade talks.
 Because of the strategic importance of the American relationship with South Korea, however, a deal could be tough for anyone to stop.
 ''The idea that we would turn down a trade agreement with Korea on any basis, given the sensitive political arrangements in that area, and their neighbors to the north, is somewhat daunting,'' said Mickey Kantor, a former United States trade representative and secretary of commerce. ''There'll be legitimate pressure to try and get something done here, regardless of the provisions of the agreement.''
 Mr. Kantor noted that most previous two-way trade agreements have been signed with small economies, with largely strategic rather than economic goals. For example, the United States has pursued agreements throughout the Arab world, having signed deals with Jordan, Bahrain and Morocco, in order to build support for its foreign policy objectives. But a deal with South Korea, Mr. Kantor said, would be the first major step in many years toward opening markets. 
 AND not everyone thinks that it will shift attention away from the global talks. ''For those that are concerned about the United States being unilateral or looking for coalitions that are not so broad, they're wrong,'' Professor Taylor said.
 He suggested that the South Korean agreement could give a spur to the W.T.O. negotiations, provided that Congress renewed the president's trade negotiating authority in the summer. 
 ''This is a way that the United States can show tremendous leadership on a multilateral basis,'' he said. ''For Congress not to give that extension would set that whole effort back substantially.''
 Ms. Elliott, however, argued that it would be hard to push the global talks forward without more involvement from American businesses, which, she said, have so far taken relatively little interest. A trade agreement with South Korea will give them little reason to change that attitude.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hyundai cars awaiting shipment from the port of Ulsan, South Korea. A leading exporter, South Korea shipped $284 billion worth of merchandise in 2005. (Photo by Seokyong Lee/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (94%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); APPROVALS (72%) International Trade and World Market; Third World and Developing Countries

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); FREE TRADE AREA OF THE AMERICAS (57%); CENTER FOR GLOBAL DEVELOPMENT (56%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (55%)

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (58%); ROB PORTMAN (57%) Daniel Altman

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); HONG KONG (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%) South Korea

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



151 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: April 08, 2007

 BODY:
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended March 24, at many thousands of venues where a wide range of general interest books are sold nationwide. These include hundreds of independent book retailers (statistically weighted to represent all such outlets); national, regional and local chains; online and multimedia entertainment retailers; university, gift, supermarket, discount, department stores and newsstands. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available on the Web: nytimes.com/books.NANCY CUNARD: Heiress, Muse, Political Idealist, by Lois Gordon. 
(Columbia University, $32.50.) A biography of Cunard (1896-1965), a poet, publisher, journalist and tireless supporter of the disenfranchised.THE SECOND CHILD: Poems, by Deborah Garrison. (Random House, $19.95.) A former New Yorker editor celebrates motherhood and domestic life.GHOSTS OF SPAIN, by Giles Tremlett. (Walker, $26.95.) The legacy of Francoism: part modern social history, part travelogue.CHANCE AND CIRCUMSTANCE, by Carolyn Brown. (Knopf, $37.50) Twenty years of dancing with Merce Cunningham and John Cage.CRAZY '08, by Cait Murphy. (Smithsonian/Collins, $24.95.) An argument that 1908 -- the last time the Chicago Cubs won the World Series -- was the greatest year in baseball history.ONCE UPON A COUNTRY, by Sari Nusseibeh with Anthony David. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.50.) A nuanced assessment of his country's national life from a Palestinan scholar.COLLECTED PLAYS & WRITINGS ON THEATER, by Thornton Wilder. (Library of America, $40.) An anthology of theatrical writing by a great and misunderstood playwright.ASTRID & VERONIKA, by Linda Olsson. (Penguin, paper, $14.) A writer from New Zealand moves to a remote Swedish village.IN THE FOOTSTEPS OF THE PROPHET, by Tariq Ramadan. (Oxford University, $23.) A biography of Muhammad by a Muslim scholar who has been barred from the United States argues that Islam and Western democracy are compatible.WHY THE FRENCH DON'T LIKE HEADSCARVES, by John R. Bowen. (Princeton University, $27.95.) An account of the controversy that culminated in a 2004 law forbidding conspicuous religious apparel in French schools.RIPPLE EFFECT: New and Selected Poems, by Elaine Equi. (Coffee House, $18.) A thoughtful, curious poet explores the link between heart and mind.The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books.


	 	 	 			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	1	34	1	NINETEEN MINUTES, by Jodi Picoult. (Atria, $26.95.) The aftermath of a high school shooting reveals the fault lines in a small New Hampshire town.		 	 	 	2	2	4	SHOPAHOLIC & BABY, by Sophie Kinsella. (Dial, $24.) Becky is pregnant, and the obstetrician turns out to be her husband's ex-girlfriend.		 	 	 	3	3	2	DADDY'S GIRL, by Lisa Scottoline. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) A law professor caught in a prison riot must defend herself when she is unjustly accused of murder.		 	 	 	4	4	3	WHITETHORN WOODS, by Maeve Binchy. (Knopf, $25.95.) A proposed highway threatens the existence of a religious shrine in a rural Irish village.		 	 	 	5		1	FOR A FEW DEMONS MORE, by Kim Harrison. (Eos/HarperCollins, $21.95.) A witch owns an ancient artifact that may stop a serial killer or ignite a gang war; the fifth book in the Hollows series.		 	 	 	6	5	7	STEP ON A CRACK, by James Patterson and Michael Ledwidge. (Little, Brown, $27.99.) A detective raising 10 children alone must rescue 34 high-level hostages.		 	 	 	7	6	6	SISTERS, by Danielle Steel. (Delacorte, $27.) After a family tragedy, four sisters with very different lives decide to share a Manhattan brownstone.		 	 	 	8	16	6	HEART-SHAPED BOX, by Joe Hill. (Morrow, $24.95.) An aging rock star who buys what's advertised online as a ghost to add to his collection of macabre objects is stunned when it turns out to be the real thing.		 	 	 	9*	7	6	THE DOUBLE BIND, by Chris Bohjalian. (Shaye Areheart, $25.) A young woman who works at a homeless shelter struggles to understand the mysterious photographs taken by a recently deceased resident.		 	 	 	10	11	2	WHAT THE DEAD KNOW, by Laura Lippman. (Morrow, $24.95.) A woman claims to be one of two sisters who disappeared mysteriously 30 years earlier.		 	 	 	11	8	4	THE WATCHMAN, by Robert Crais. (Simon & Schuster, $25.95.) A former Los Angeles police officer becomes the bodyguard of a troubled heiress marked for death.		 	 	 	12		1	BURNING BRIGHT, by Tracy Chevalier. (Dutton, $24.95.) In Georgian London, the poet William Blake befriends two neighborhood chldren.		 	 	 	13	9	5	INNOCENT IN DEATH, by J. D. Robb. (Putnam, $25.95) Lt. Eve Dallas investigates the murder of an apparently inoffensive private-school history teacher; by Nora Roberts, writing pseudonymously.		 	 	 	14	10	26	FOR ONE MORE DAY, by Mitch Albom. (Hyperion, $21.95.) A troubled man gets a last chance to reconnect and restore his relationship with his dead mother.		 	 	 	15	12	2	THE POST-BIRTHDAY WORLD, by Lionel Shriver. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) In parallel narratives, a London woman stays with her boyfriend and leaves him for another.		 	 	 			Weeks			 	 	 	This	Last	On			 	 	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	1	1	4	IN AN INSTANT, by Lee and Bob Woodruff. (Random House, $25.95.) The aftermath of the ABC co-anchor's traumatic brain injury in Iraq in 2006.		 	 	 	2		1	GRACE (EVENTUALLY), by Anne Lamott. (Riverhead/Penguin, $24.95.) Essays about faith and forgiveness. 		 	 	 	3	7	2	HOW DOCTORS THINK, by Jerome Groopman. (Houghton Mifflin, $26.) A doctor and New Yorker staff writer describes how doctors arrive at diagnoses and what patients can do to make sure they don't err.		 	 	 	4	2	6	A LONG WAY GONE, by Ishmael Beah. (Sarah Crichton/Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $22.) A former child soldier from Sierra Leone describes his drug-crazed killing spree and his return to humanity.		 	 	 	5	4	23	THE AUDACITY OF HOPE, by Barack Obama. (Crown, $25.) The Illinois junior senator proposes that Americans move beyond their political divisions.		 	 	 	6*	3	34	I FEEL BAD ABOUT MY NECK, by Nora Ephron. (Knopf, $19.95.) A witty look at aging from a novelist and screenwriter (''When Harry Met Sally'').		 	 	 	7	5	7	INFIDEL, by Ayaan Hirsi Ali. (Free Press, $26.) A memoir by the Somali-born advocate for Muslim immigrant women, once a member of the Dutch Parliament, who has been threatened with death.		 	 	 	8	6	3	THE HARDCORE DIARIES, by Mick Foley. (World Wrestling Entertainment/Pocket, $24.) The former professional wrestling champion discusses his fame and his life at World Wrestling Entertainment.		 	 	 	9		1	BLACKWATER, by Jeremy Scahill. (Nation/Avalon, $26.95.) An account of the private army that has been deployed by the government in Afghanistan and Iraq.		 	 	 	10	9	5	SOMEBODY'S GOTTA SAY IT, by Neal Boortz (HC/HarperCollins, $25.95.) A radio talk-show host discusses government, poverty, prayer in the schools, race relations, gun control and other topics.		 	 	 	11	8	2	SECOND CHANCE, by Zbigniew Brzezinski. (Basic, $26.95.) The former National Security adviser discusses how America can regain the global power and prestige squandered by its three post-cold-war presidents.		 	 	 	12	13	98	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $27.95.) A maverick scholar and a journalist apply economic theory to nearly everything.		 	 	 	13	14	27	THE GOD DELUSION, by Richard Dawkins. (Houghton Mifflin, $27.) An Oxford scientist asserts that belief in God is irrational.		 	 	 	14		1	RELIGIOUS LITERACY, by Stephen Prothero. (HarperSanFrancisco, $24.95.) What Americans need to know about the world's religions and their own.		 	 	 	15	10	24	THE INNOCENT MAN, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $28.95.) Grisham's first nonfiction book concerns a man sentenced to death for a crime he did not commit.		 	 	 	
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); RETAILERS (90%); WRITERS (90%); BOOK SALES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (85%); PUBLISHING (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); BOOKSTORES (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (74%); DRAMA LITERATURE (74%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (72%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (72%); THEATER & DRAMA (69%); HISTORY (67%); RELIGION (66%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (60%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (53%); SHOOTINGS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); CHICAGO CUBS (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%); NEW ZEALAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



152 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OPENERS: SUITS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 106 words

HEADLINE: NO BREAK FOR MOM

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
Would a chief executive really raise the rent on his own mother by more than $1,500 a month? Jonathan M. Tisch, the co-chairman of the Loews Corporation, who runs its Loews Hotels unit, may have no choice. 
 His mother, Joan Tisch, lives in an apartment in the Loews Regency Hotel on Park Avenue in Manhattan, which she rents for $55,000 a month. (She also rents an additional hotel room for $4,200 a month.)
 But starting this year, her rent will rise along with the inflation rate, according to Loews's proxy statement. Mrs. Tisch should be able to afford the increase: Last year, she sold $700 million of company stock. PATRICK McGEEHAN

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joan Tisch and her son Jonathan M. Tisch. (Photo by Bill Cunningham/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); EXECUTIVES (86%); INFLATION (83%); ECONOMIC NEWS (83%) Hotels and Motels; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Renting and Leasing

COMPANY: LOEWS CORP (94%); LOEWS HOTELS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Loews Corp; Loews Hotels

TICKER: L (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (94%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (94%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (94%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%)

PERSON: Jonathan M Tisch; Patrick Mcgeehan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



153 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: The Three Souths

BYLINE: By ERIC FONER. 
Eric Foner, the DeWitt Clinton professor of history at Columbia University, is the author, most recently, of ''Forever Free: The Story of Emancipation and Reconstruction.''

 BODY:
THE ROAD TO DISUNION
 Volume Two. Secessionists Triumphant:
 1854-1861.
 By William W. Freehling.
 Illustrated. 752 pp. Oxford University Press.
 $35.
Everyone who lived through the Civil War, Abraham Lincoln observed in his second Inaugural Address, knew that slavery was ''somehow'' its cause. Ever since, historians have been struggling to explain that ''somehow.'' Their interpretations fall into two broad schools. One sees the war as the result of an ''irrepressible conflict'' between two societies with incompatible interests and values. The second blames irresponsible agitators and a ''blundering generation'' of political leaders for bringing about a war that could and should have been avoided. 
 In ''The Road to Disunion: Secessionists Triumphant,'' the conclusion of a two-volume account of the Civil War's origins, William W. Freehling seems to combine these approaches. It is ''indisputable,'' he writes, that slavery was the war's main cause, and some kind of clash was probably inevitable. But not necessarily in 1861. Whatever the underlying reasons, the war that actually took place resulted from individual decisions, chance events and at least one ''incredible coincidence.'' 
 Since the publication four decades ago of ''Prelude to Civil War,'' a study of the nullification crisis of the early 1830s, Freehling has been among the foremost students of 19th-century Southern history. If one theme unites his scholarship it is that the Old South cannot be viewed as a monolith. It contained distinct regions with divergent economic structures and degrees of commitment to slavery. In the seven states of the Lower South, cotton was king and slaves comprised nearly half the population. The Middle South (Virginia, North Carolina, Tennessee and Arkansas) contained large regions of nonslaveholding whites. In the Border South (Delaware, Maryland, Kentucky and Missouri) slavery seemed to be in decline. By 1860, 90 percent of Delaware's black population and half of Maryland's were already free.
 Time and again, Freehling writes, the three Souths collided. In the three months following Lincoln's election, the entire Lower South seceded. The Middle South waited, hoping for compromise; it joined the Confederacy only after the firing on Fort Sumter. The four border states not only remained in the Union but furnished thousands of troops to help defeat their Southern brethren. 
 As Freehling shows, this disunity long preceded 1861. In crisis after crisis, advocates of secession faced a ''double enemy'' -- Northerners hostile to slavery and white Southerners willing to compromise with their foes. ''Secessionists Triumphant'' begins in 1854, when the question of slavery's westward expansion moved to the center stage of national politics and ends 500 pages later with the outbreak of war. Many of the subjects Freehling covers -- Bleeding Kansas, the Dred Scott decision, John Brown's raid -- are well known; others, like the movement to reopen the African slave trade, will be new even to many specialists. But by keeping his eye fixed on the problem of Southern disunity, he manages to offer original insights on even the most familiar topics. 
 Freehling examines how, in the 1850s, the Lower South became more and more committed to defending slavery as a positive good. At the same time, he tells us, the Middle and Border Souths persisted in the dream of eventually removing all slaves (and free blacks) from the region and reorienting its economy toward the North. Secessionists were not wrong, he writes, to see these states as slavery's Achilles' heel.
 The movements in the 1850s to acquire new slave territories for the United States, reopen the African slave trade and re-enslave free blacks also revealed Southern disunity. Freehling offers fascinating accounts of each. But his main point is that because of opposition within the South, all failed. Even South Carolina, he shows, was divided. In his account of the aftermath of Lincoln's election, Freehling overturns the conventional picture of a state rushing headlong into disunion. South Carolina secessionists emerge instead as a beleaguered minority, fearful that their state would stand alone (as it had during the nullification crisis). 
 At this point, Freehling's ''incredible coincidence'' comes into play. A railroad had just been completed linking Savannah, Ga., and Charleston, S.C. As the South Carolina legislature deliberated, leading citizens of the two cities took part in a celebration. The Georgians, carried away by the emotion of the moment, pledged their state's support for secession. Suddenly convinced that other states would follow , the legislature moved the secession convention up to December. The ''coincidence,'' Freehling argues, changed history. Had South Carolina not taken this step, Unionists might have prevailed throughout the South. 
 Whatever one thinks of this excursion into counterfactual history (and the argument seems dubious to me), Freehling's overall emphasis on the role of contingency in history offers genuine insights. But it comes at a cost. It has become fashionable of late for historians writing with one eye on the best-seller list to disparage fellow scholars for supposedly alienating the broad reading public. Unlike ''academic historians,'' Freehling proclaims, he tells ''stories about striking individuals'' and their unpredictable impact on history. 
 There is no question that ''Secessionists Triumphant'' is peopled by a colorful cast of characters, from William L. Yancey, a hotheaded secessionist who tried to inspire Southerners with a sense of nationhood, to James Henry Hammond, a South Carolina planter who preyed on his female slaves. But Freehling's fondness for individual stories puts undue emphasis on psychological explanations, with words like ''frustration'' and ''rage'' sprinkling the text. Moreover, the attempt to assume a popular literary style often seems forced. (Was the pro-slavery theorist George Fitzhugh really dealing in ''sound bites''?) 
 I think it's time to declare a moratorium on scholars' denigrating other scholars for failing to achieve popularity. As Freehling's own extensive footnotes demonstrate, those much-maligned specialized studies are the building blocks of historical knowledge. Nor is his dismissal of what he calls ''multicultural social history'' in favor of the study of politics persuasive. Surely, the task of the historian is to integrate the two. 
 Freehling himself inadvertently makes this case. At one point he remarks that ''blacks' impact remains the most overlooked cause of the Civil War.'' Without runaways seeking liberty there would have been no political crisis over fugitive slaves. Without one slave's suit for freedom, there would have been no Dred Scott decision. But Freehling never returns to this striking insight, partly because his emphasis on stories involving political actors leaves little room for the slaves. The men, women and children over whose fate political battles raged and who, in fact, made up a majority of South Carolina's population, remain largely invisible in this account of the road to disunion.

GRAPHIC: Photo
 In a cartoon from Harper's Weekly in 1861, the leaders of the seceding states are portrayed as opportunists. (Photo by MPI/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CIVIL WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); SLAVERY (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); HISTORY (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (69%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (67%); LITERATURE (65%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: Eric Foner; William W Freehling

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



154 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 5065 words

HEADLINE: New Tricks

BYLINE: By Charles Siebert. 
Charles Siebert, a contributing writer who has reported frequently on animals, is at work on ''Humanzee,'' a book about humans and chimpanzees.

 BODY:
''Let me know when you're ready,'' Diane Mollaghan called out as I rummaged one recent winter afternoon through the costumes and props she had stored in the back room of a run-down house trailer on the grounds of the Town Lake Animal Center in Austin. Mollaghan, a 34-year-old animal-behavior researcher and graduate student in the University of Texas's psychology department, was waiting in the trailer's main room beside a tan-and-brown mutt that had recently been left in the shelter's night drop-off box with no ID tags or background-information form. Estimated by the shelter's staff members to be a ''Manchester terrier mix,'' it looked like a pointy-faced Chihuahua on stilts, a creature of indeterminate origin and yet-to-be-determined disposition. That, literally, was where I was to come in. 
All afternoon, in that continuous din of kennel-dog barking -- high-pitched, autocatalytic, corrosive -- I had been helping Mollaghan conduct various trait-assessment tests on some of the shelter's recent arrivals, trying to get a fix on each animal's temperament, measuring characteristics like sociability, playfulness, aggressiveness and fearfulness. The house trailer -- situated midway between Town Lake's western row of kennels, which hold already approved, adoptable dogs, and the compound's eastern end, where the veterinary clinic and euthanasia rooms are -- was serving as a kind of purgatorial courtroom. The dogs we gave high marks to would advance westward with a certificate of adoptability; those we didn't rate so well would be dispatched the other way, eastward to the euthanasia room.
 As fair trials go, these were anything but, given the inherently stressful venue and the somewhat offbeat nature of the tests themselves. Indeed, many a so-called well-homed dog I've met might have taken my head off for some of the antics our defendants were being subjected to that afternoon. There was the ''approach by angry normal person, stare, raise voice, raise hand as if to strike'' test; or test No. 12, the ''friendly approach by toddler doll'' -- a three-foot-high, raggedy-haired creature in a paw-smeared yellow taffeta dress, a figure that is still showing up in my nightmares. And there was test No. 13, the little number that I was just then donning an outsize yellow raincoat with hood and walking stick to perform for our Manchester terrier mix: the ''friendly 'strange' person with cane, approach and pet'' test. 
 And yet by the unremittingly bleak standards of animal-shelter justice, such trait-assessment sessions are a much fairer shake than most shelter dogs will ever get. These sessions are part of a new trend among animal shelters across the United States to take a more proactive role in both controlling and counteracting the rampant discarding of dogs in this country. Mollaghan's study, a joint project between Town Lake and the University of Texas's Animal Personality Institute, makes use both of questionnaires filled out by dog relinquishers and of personality assessment forms designed for adopters in an attempt to better understand the mind-set not only of the abandoned animals but of their past and potential owners as well. Mollaghan's hope is that she will be able to determine which people will best suit the needs and temperament of the different dogs she has assessed. It's a kind of cutting-edge interspecies matchmaking service, a whole new science of animal rescue.
 Town Lake alone takes in, on average, about 40 dogs a day from the greater Austin area, or some 14,000 over the course of a year. About half of them never make it back out again, a figure consistent with those reported by shelters across the United States. (The stats are even worse for cats.) According to Stephen Zawistowski, executive vice president for national programs for the ASPCA, about four million dogs enter shelters nationwide each year. Some two million of them end up being euthanized, about 5,000 dogs each day, one every 16 seconds. They are not, as is often assumed, merely the misbegotten mutts, castoffs of some imaginary canine lower caste. They hail from every stratum of the human society that shaped them, from all the varied quadrants of our keeping. According to nationwide surveys, as many as 25 percent of the dogs who end up in shelters are purebreds: Boston terriers, border collies, Pomeranians, standard poodles and so on, the sorts of dogs that people pay thousands of dollars to obtain. And yet they are discarded for the same dizzying array of reasons the mongrels are, ranging from the truly fraught to the downright frivolous.
 Dog mania being at an all-time peak in this country, it is difficult to say whether such profligacy with our pooches is a logical phenomenon or a wholly paradoxical one. A recent survey of the American Pet Products Manufacturers Association estimates that Americans house some 74 million dogs. And with the often factorylike production of ever more new puppies to satisfy growing consumer demand, the 5 percent of owned dogs that wind up disowned each year could be thought of as the inevitable spillage that attends all forms of mass consumption. Except, of course, for the simple, discomforting fact that the ''product'' in question is not only a living being but also our proverbial best friend, our most loyal and longtime animal companion.
 Dog abandonment is hardly a new phenomenon. Still, the overwhelming number of canine outcasts being taken in and put down in recent years is now prompting animal shelters -- places, by definition, of surrender -- to fight back. With the help of a broad array of specialists, including human and dog psychologists, animal behaviorists and ethologists, local veterinarians and dog trainers, even dog-minded architects, shelters like Town Lake are now rethinking the whole phenomenon of abandoned pets: from the behavioral dysfunctions (human and animal) that lead to dog relinquishment; to the experience and expectations of potential adopters; to developing new design features in shelters that reduce the stress and depression of the animals there and, in turn, lure more people to come and consider them for adoption. The animal shelter, a place long consigned to being a lost pet's last, is fast becoming among the most likely places to find a lasting pet.
 They come to Town Lake -- the found strays, the ''owner-surrendered'' and the recidivist failed adoptions -- at all times of day: during normal working hours, delivered directly into the hands of shelter staff; or long after closing, furtively placed in the wee hours of the morning inside one of the shelter's self-locking drop-off bins, often without any ID tags or background-information forms. The rest of Town Lake's unhappy residents come via that time-honored but oft-maligned civil servant, the dogcatcher. 
 Mollaghan created a four-page form for dog relinquishers. The reasons they list for surrender reflect a dizzying range, from the serious (lifestyle issues like a move or loss of job, or dog aggression) to the supercilious (people going on vacation). Mollaghan told me one person reported that her pet was ''boring.'' Another family said they had bought new furniture that their dog's coat didn't quite match. 
 At Town Lake -- as with all shelters except for the ''no kill'' variety, which keep a strict limit on the number of dogs they'll accept -- three fates can befall an animal that's not reclaimed by its owner within three days: 1) adoption; 2) rescue (meaning it is claimed by one of many different groups out there that are vigorously devoted to the salvation of a specific breed -- Schnauzer Rescue, for example, or Standard Poodle Rescue -- and are known for being as strict as human adoption agencies are about whom they'll place their dogs with); or 3) euthanasia, the dismal reality of which was brought home to me one morning upon returning to Town Lake after a dawn patrol with an animal-rescue officer from Austin's Health and Human Services department named Billy Seguin.
 ''Uh-oh,'' Seguin said, looking into his rearview mirror as we pulled into the shelter's unloading area. He restarted his vehicle. ''Got to make way for the meat truck.''
 Pulling off to one side, we watched as a wide-cab trailer backed into our spot, its rear door already open, revealing a large metal-lined container. 
 ''Will you be O.K. with this?'' a female shelter worker asked, taking hold of my arm as I started walking over from Seguin's truck.
 Just then a small side door opened to my left. A man was standing in a dimly lighted room before a partly visible mound, the startling dimensions of which would soon become apparent as, one by one, shiny black tied-off garbage bags were being tossed out into the area before me. Big, small and middle-size lumps, well over 50 of them, some rigid with rigor mortis and some -- like the large, handsome, two-toned boxer mix that I watched spill out of the tear in his bag and slide down the mound -- loose-limbed and floppy-eared, like deeply asleep dogs.
 It was, I learned later, merely a day and a half's grim output; the majority of the animals, according to Mollaghan, could have, with very little time and effort, made some people perfectly fine companions. Town Lake, however, like most other large, municipally financed shelters, lacks the resources to undo the distortions of every dog's prior ownership and guide it on its way to a successful subsequent one. 
 One morning, I accompanied one of the shelter's rapid-fire ''disposition committees'' on a tour of duty: four members of the shelter staff who roamed the facility's three main buildings, deciding in brief visits which dogs are adoptable and which ones are not. The dogs are held in long, single-story barrackslike structures of narrow cement kennels with chain-link metal gates on them, everywhere crows flitting above the malodorous mayhem, like animate flecks of barking. Stray 1, the first building a prospective adopter encounters upon passing through Town Lake's gates, tends to get the cuter, smaller and purebred dogs. It's a tacit if somewhat begrudging nod toward the preferences of prospective adopters, though Mollaghan told me that part of the shelter's mission is to get people to move past their initial biases and appearance-based choices and venture the many midsize, ostensibly nondescript mutts in Stray 2 and 3, dogs that often make for ideal companions. 
 The committee went from one animal on its list to the next, stopping before each one to see how it responded to the same basic human-dog interactions: talking excitedly, petting. The tests took on an almost unbearable gravitas in that context, especially when one of those dime-a-dozen, midsize mixed breeds in Stray 2 or 3 would get it right, would eagerly do all those human-pleasing things dogs have been bred to do. It was almost easier to watch the ones who reared back or stiffened at our approach, a clear sign of asocial tendencies and an almost certain death sentence; easier to watch dogs behaving beyond hope rather than having their hopes falsely stoked again.
 ''We're trying to get a handle on each animal in a very short window,'' Kim Barry, an applied animal behaviorist at Town Lake, told me afterward in her office. ''We kind of feel in our gut that our assessments are accurate, but not much hard science has been done on this sort of thing.'' Then, referring to Mollaghan, she said, ''That's where Diane's work comes in.''
 Final decisions are typically based on the disposition committee's judgment. Mollaghan's more nuanced assessments, however, performed on four randomly selected newly arrived dogs each day, sometimes have an influence on the fate of a dog whose potential might otherwise be missed. 
 ''My tests are often done a day or two before the disposition committee does theirs,'' she said. ''And sometimes my results can be used to give a dog another chance. It goes outside the regular process and is something of a burden on the system, but it's being allowed because the shelter is interested in seeing if what I'm doing can have some positive effect on real-world outcomes.''
 A number of recent studies published in The Journal of Applied Animal Welfare Science have indicated that the leading cause of dog abandonment is behavioral problems. A team of researchers for the National Council on Pet Population Study and Policy, headed by Dr. Mo Salman of the College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences at Colorado State University, surveyed nearly 4,000 dog owners at 12 shelters across the United States about their reasons for relinquishing their dogs. They repeatedly cited things like biting, overaggression, chewed-up furniture, repeated soiling: dogs literally and figuratively bouncing off our walls. 
 And who can blame them, our walls now being just about all they have? With our full-scale shift from an agrarian to a service-based economy and society, the very nature of dog work and the tasks we ask of dogs have shifted as well. The hunters and sheepherders and the high-strung, ground-tearing terriers of yore -- born ferreters of rats and badgers -- are being increasingly disappointed from their intended earthly rounds, pulled skyward into high-rises, where there are only our ever-shifting moods, anthropomorphic projections and stuffed toys and couch pillows to alternately grasp, negotiate or tear through.
 We look to dogs now to be not only companions but also substitute children, emotional and psychological support in the wake of deaths, divorces and breakups. We are asking them to be, in essence, little people, animate worry beads and stress absorbers: to undertake jobs that, while they may engage -- to the point of exhaustion -- the canine species's long-heralded loyalty, exercise precious little else. The outcome has been an ever-growing number of incredibly messed-up, neurotic dogs, and with them a rise each year in the incidence of dog bites and other aggressive, antisocial behaviors -- all of which contribute, of course, to the huge number of abandoned dogs.
 Shelters in a number of states across the country are now employing a multifaceted, proactive approach, specifically to address these behavioral issues, taking their cues from surveys like Mo Salman's, or another, similar study done by The Journal of the American Veterinary Association back in 1996 that concluded that dogs whose owners reported having received helpful behavior advice were at a 94 percent lower risk for abandonment. A shelter in Denver known as the Dumb Friends League began a dog behavior program back in the mid-1990s, teaching ''shelter manners'' to their abandoned dogs to make them more adoptable and offering behavior-training classes for dog adopters and other dog owners in the community. In four years' time, the number of dogs returned to the shelter decreased by 23 percent and those returned for reasons of misbehavior by 38 percent. 
 A number of shelters that have broadened their scope in this way have reported similar improvements. At the Humane Society in Minneapolis, puppies that graduated from socialization classes were found to be far less likely to be returned after adoption. At the Town of North Hempstead Animal Shelter on Long Island, a volunteer shelter-dog training program initiated in 1999 cut the euthanasia rate by 50 percent in just six months. According to a 2006 survey of shelters in Ohio conducted by Ohio State University's College of Veterinary Medicine, the outlook for dogs in shelters has greatly improved in the past 10 years, thanks partly to spay/neutering programs and also to a big increase in the number of shelters that have an established partnership with a veterinary practice. There has been a 16 percent decrease statewide in the number of dogs taken in each year and a 39 percent decrease in the number of dogs euthanized. 
 Dogs still are animals -- our endless manipulations and misperceptions of them notwithstanding -- and it has now become the added and somehow logical role of animal shelters, in concert with local veterinarians, pet stores and dog breeders, and an ever-growing network of applied animal behaviorists and trainers, to remind us of this simple truth. To help us step back and readdress our best friends again. 
 Mollaghan speaks of her approach as a three-part puzzle: Try to get a handle on the dogs. Try to read a potential adopter's personality and expectations. And, finally, develop the relationship element itself -- try to get a sense of how people are choosing their dogs, what criteria they're using.
 The first part can be particularly daunting. Any abandoned dog is the living embodiment of a broken bond of some sort, an intriguing if maddeningly inarticulate emissary of some prior human entanglement. The challenge for shelter workers trying to re-home that animal, of course, is to get a firm enough idea of its disposition -- which naturally deteriorates with every passing second the dog spends among its equally miserable fellow captives -- to feel fairly confident that they're not dispatching a ticking time bomb into someone's life.
 ''The timing of these tests is pretty sensitive,'' Mollaghan said as we made our way to the kennel of our next test subject, ''because of the stress response of these animals.'' The very act of our passing by them, Mollaghan explained, contributes to their decline, setting dogs off into a frenzy of barking and jumping because, invariably, some other visitor stopped once before and spoke to them and took them out on a lead. It's a syndrome known as ''conditioned frustration.''
 ''They were rewarded once,'' Mollaghan went on to say, ''so they behave that way whenever anyone passes. Why do people continue to gamble in the face of constant losing? Because they won once.''
 Kennel No. 227 in Stray 3, one of the kennels for larger dogs, held a light tan, somewhat undernourished-looking pit bull named Lana. She hugged to the back corner of her kennel and, upon being greeted, began to tremble uncontrollably. Mollaghan opened the gate, went in and crouched down, very low, so as to be less threatening. A petite woman with a round-eyed, elfish face, she seemed utterly fearless and under control at all times. She waited a bit longer in silence. Called out again. More trembling.
 ''If I were to go any closer,'' Mollaghan said to me in a hushed voice, ''this dog would definitely bite me.''
 She stepped gingerly back outside and locked the gate. She pulled out the stat sheet from the plastic pouch on the front of Lana's kennel, telling me that they get dogs like her all the time. They usually have names like Nitro or Cocaine or Killer, dogs that spend their lives chained in yards, having no contact with other dogs or humans.
 It had been, up until then, a fairly positive afternoon as shelter-dog days go. We had tested a young but extremely well-balanced Labrador-cattle dog mix that responded to the taffeta-doll dance and my rain-coated flasher-man get-up with what seemed like a perfectly appropriate mix of curiosity and concern. He was followed by a 7-year-old husky-malamute, a dog that countenanced the entire battery of assessments with such a world-weary calm that he somehow rendered us, the testers, the species under examination. We didn't rate too well when it came to Lana. She would be put down the following afternoon.
 ''They pick up on that cue too,'' Mollaghan told me. ''A lot of them start to vomit or soil themselves the minute they enter the euthanasia room.''
 On the way to retrieving our day's last subject, fate delivered me a far more intimate look at the other two parts of Mollaghan's puzzle and the larger dramas of modern-day dog adoption than I had ever anticipated getting. It happened at Stray 3, Kennel No. 252. Two names were listed on her data sheet: Cricket and Olive. A twice-abandoned ''border terrier mix.'' Tiny. Just over 12 pounds. A breathing bundle of gray-and-white carpet lint with long pipe-cleaner-like legs, a slight underbite and the proverbial button eyes. I'd have guessed the first-ever mating of a Maltese and a spider monkey. But whatever unknowable admixture of cockeyed progeny, behavioral flaws and human perversions had led to this creature's double exile, it made no difference to me. I had lost not only my journalistic objectivity, my so-called reporterly remove, but also all remnants of reason and rationality. I was, in a word, sunk.
 Mollaghan was on to me before I'd uttered a word: to the fact that I was both instantly becoming one of her human test subjects and already committing the classic shelter-shopper faux pas. I was going on first impression, mere appearance. I'd fallen for one of the ''cutesy'' dogs, one whose very presence there among the dime-a-dozen midsize mixes that I should, in good conscience, have been considering, only further bewitched me, the way she calmly and mutely came right up to greet me amid a maelstrom of barking and jumping kennel mates.
 Back at Mollaghan's office, we learned the following about Cricket/Olive: a spayed female, approximately 2 years old, found three days before, roaming the grounds of the Anderson Oaks town-home community. This was, we soon verified, her second stint at Town Lake. There was no information on her original owner, but as for her second, a guy named Forbes, records showed that he adopted her from Town Lake seven weeks earlier. An immediate message had been left on Forbes's answering machine and an e-mail sent, quoting the usual reclaim fee of $50 and giving him a three-day deadline to reclaim his dog.
 ''That's today,'' I said.
 ''Yep,'' Mollaghan said, staring up at the office clock, which read 6:40 p.m. ''He's got until closing. Twenty minutes.''
 And then we learned this: I didn't have a prayer. Even if Forbes didn't show, three others before me had dibs on Cricket/Olive. 
 ''So much for that,'' I said, my sudden scheme of returning to Brooklyn and surprising my wife, Bex, and our own shelter-adopted terrier mix, Roz, evaporating as quickly as it had coalesced.
 ''Not necessarily,'' said Mollaghan, who, I soon learned, was hatching a scheme of her own, one that would pivot around her intimate knowledge of the fickleness of dog adopters and certain nuances in the dog-adoption process itself. No. 2 on the waiting list turned out to be a rescue group. If, Mollaghan explained, she could get the rescue group to defer to me as its ideal adopter, that would legitimately leapfrog me to the slot just behind the first C.I. (customer interest) on the list, a man named Welch. He had happened upon Kennel No. 252 the day Cricket/Olive arrived. Welch's deadline clock of 36 hours would commence ticking the day after the one expired on Forbes.
 Seven p.m. would come and go that evening with no sign of the mercurial Mr. Forbes. Beneath the once daunting list of the three other prior C.I.'s for the dog, Mollaghan now typed the following: ''Charles Siebert (visiting journalist from nytimes mag) also has strong interest in Cricket a k a Olive. I will advise him to contact rescue if the other app. falls through.''
 The next day and a half was -- between waiting out the deadline on Welch and going through my own pre-adoption gantlet -- a beguiling mix of torturous time-distension and a kind of frenzied, dual-pronged detective mystery: the shelter trying to determine my true motives for wanting Olive (I had already opted for that half of her dual identity on the chance that I did get her), even as I was trying to divine what sort of a devil might be lurking underneath that adorable exterior to induce two prior owners to discard her.
 Back at the shelter the next morning, I filled out the Ten-Item Personality Inventory (TIPI) form Mollaghan has devised for her study. It presents 10 general trait descriptions and allows seven degrees of agreement with them, from 1 (''Disagree strongly'') to 7 (''Agree strongly''), with 4 being ''Neither agree nor disagree.'' Apparent contradictions notwithstanding, I gave myself ''7s'' for the first eight descriptions: extroverted, quarrelsome, self-disciplined, easy to upset, open to new experiences, reserved, sympathetic and disorganized. I gave myself a ''Neither agree nor disagree'' on ''Emotionally stable,'' and a ''Disagree strongly'' for ''Conventional, uncreative.'' The second half of the TIPI covered both the most important characteristics in my selection of Olive -- ''Breed'' (No), ''Age'' (No), ''Personality'' (Pending) or ''Appearance'' (Agree strongly!) -- as well as my method of choosing, as in ''Love at first sight'' (Duh!) or ''Advice from adoption counselor'' (None as of yet) or ''The pet's behavioral history'' (Now my obsession). 
 As I awaited the afternoon interview that Mollaghan had arranged for me with Kathryn Sharp, Town Lake's rescue-group coordinator, I kept going back out to Kennel No. 252. I was trying at once to affirm that this dog was real and to catch her doing something dastardly. I must have made 10 trips, and each time, amid the clamor of the other Stray 3 residents, the same button-eyed bundle came soundlessly forward, tail wagging. Shelter-staff adoption counselors stationed in the foyer between the administrative offices and the back dog kennels began to give me funny looks. A half-hour after my successful interview with Kathryn Sharp, I bumped into her on my way back to Stray 3. I stopped and pretended to read some fliers on the foyer bulletin board. She smiled.
 ''You're going out to see her again, aren't you?''
 By late afternoon, with another 20 hours to Welch's 1 p.m. deadline the following day, the wait was starting to get to me. I began to behave, well, badly. At the shelter's front greeting desk just outside Mollaghan's office, I overheard a young couple asking the volunteer worker stationed there about ''a cute little black-and-white dog called Cricket?''
 ''They mean Olive,'' I said, running up to the desk, nearly knocking the startled pair over. ''No chance. She's spoken for.''
 It got worse. Back in Mollaghan's office, I filed a Freedom of Information Act petition for Welch's phone number and called him on my cellphone. I wanted to know his intentions, to talk him out of them if need be. If that didn't work, I was prepared to offer money. A lot. I got his answering machine but decided not to leave a message. That, for some reason, struck me as too weird. I made three more calls over the next hour. Someone picked up the last time, then smashed the phone down. I joked to Mollaghan that Welch seemed to have serious anger issues and perhaps should be disqualified. She laughed. Sort of.
 Mollaghan, who also works part time as a dog-behavior consultant, had an appointment that evening at the home of a client with whom she had recently placed a Town Lake outcast. She asked if I'd like to accompany her. On the drive there it occurred to me that contacting Welch might be exactly the wrong thing to do, that it might rekindle a desire that had in fact long ago waned. Mollaghan agreed. We made a deal. If Welch called in, she would contact me, and then I could go to work on him.
 The dog we visited that evening, a black Schnauzer mix named Sparky, was living testimony to the miraculous powers of just ounces of behavioral training and the right human-dog matchmaking. Sparky was left three months earlier in a Town Lake drop-off box. Apparently picked up in an abandoned apartment complex somewhere in south Austin, Sparky's drop-off info sheet read only, ''Found in a room.'' The dog was emaciated and quite mean. In the course of his trait assessments, he tried to bite Mollaghan. 
 ''Things did not look good for Sparky,'' Mollaghan said as we pulled up in front of a lovely brick Georgian manse in Austin's tony Aldridge Place neighborhood. ''Now look.''
 Sparky's new owners, Elizabeth and Dennis Cole, had previously had a bad experience with an adopted shelter dog orphaned by Hurricane Katrina. Elizabeth Cole came to Town Lake and had a pre-adoption consultation with Mollaghan to discuss what she was looking for in a dog. Sparky, Mollaghan told me, was not the match she would have made, but after their consult, Cole went off by herself among Town Lake's kennels and immediately fell for Sparky.
 ''I like recycled men,'' Cole told me as we sat sipping coffee in her backyard. ''My husband's first marriage ended in divorce.''
 After Cole chose Sparky, Mollaghan immediately went to work on the dog, taking him out of his kennel and keeping him beside her in her office each day. She gradually conditioned him to human company and was able to temper his aggression. Now, in the Coles' backyard, she was instructing their 11-year-old son, Criss, on how to manage an extremely contented-looking, mild-mannered Sparky on the lead. He had been with the Coles now for four months. A real-life canine rags-to-riches story.
 ''We basically got him for our son,'' Elizabeth Cole told me, smiling broadly. ''But now I'm totally in love.''
 I asked if there were any lingering problems with Sparky, who was now at my feet, gleefully absorbing a back rub. Cole said the only thing was that he refuses to go up stairs. It all only further fueled my fervor for Olive, convincing me that whatever it was that got her twice tossed by her previous owners, it could be overcome.
 As things turned out, however, I needn't have worried. About any of it. The following day, another deadline on Olive came and went. Mollaghan phoned me at my hotel at 1 p.m. sharp to say that the little girl was mine. Three months have passed. Olive and Roz play and nap together all day long, sleep at night intertwined. No sign whatsoever to date of that inner devil. 
 It's hard for me to imagine now why she was never reclaimed, or why her next suitor never showed. I've often thought of picking up the phone to try to find out, but somehow it's better not knowing. Sometimes, Mollaghan told me, a dog's behavior just hews to and mirrors the environment that it's living in, and there is something deeply reaffirming, heartening in that. Just as there is in watching the daily loosening of Olive's abandonment anxiety: from the early days of her following everywhere at my heels, even when I got up for a drink of water in the middle of the night, to now seeing her dare solo, field-long dashes during our walks in the park, nearly out of sight, just because she feels that she can.

GRAPHIC: Photos: On Trial: Diane Mollaghan assessing a dog's personality traits.
 The End of the Line: Some two million dogs, like this one, are euthanized every year. (Photographs by Eli Reed/Magnum, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMALS (90%); DOGS (90%); VETERINARY SERVICES (77%); ACADEMIC TESTING (76%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (76%); PSYCHOLOGY (76%); APPROVALS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (73%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



155 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: Mismanaged Care

BYLINE: By SALLY SATEL. 
Sally Satel, a physician, is a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute and co-author of ''One Nation Under Therapy.''

 BODY:
SICK
 The Untold Story of America's Health Care Crisis -- and the People Who Pay the Price. 
 By Jonathan Cohn.
 302 pp. HarperCollins Publishers. $25.95.
The timing of this book is perfect. An epidemic of anxiety over the cost of health care has catapulted reform back onto the national agenda, and states from California to Massachusetts are now experimenting with universal coverage. It also promises to be a key issue in the 2008 election. 
 In ''Sick,'' Jonathan Cohn, a senior editor at The New Republic, lucidly shows how America's system for financing medical care helps determine who gets proper medical attention -- and who doesn't. He tells this story through the experiences of ordinary people, like Cynthia Kline, a 55-year-old teacher in Cambridge, Mass., who suffered chest pain one afternoon and knew from prior experience that she was having a heart attack. She phoned 911, and when the paramedics arrived, Kline told them to take her to Mount Auburn Hospital, a nearby facility known for its intensive cardiac care unit. But since the emergency room there was full, the paramedics sped her to another facility, even closer than the first, only to discover, as Kline herself evidently suspected, that she needed an emergency catheterization -- a procedure the staff at the second hospital was not able to perform. Two and a half hours after dialing 911, Cynthia Kline was dead. 
 This true-life story, at once disturbing and illuminating, encapsulates the larger drama of a failing system. ''Overcrowding in E.R.'s, according to most experts, is actually a symptom of other systemic problems now plaguing medical care,'' Cohn writes, ''from the downsizing of less profitable hospital services such as psychiatric wards ... to the swelling ranks of people without health insurance, whose untreated chronic conditions are more likely to become serious medical crises.''
 ''Sick'' is an account of the author's listening tour, which took him across the country. In Austin, he met a young mother whose managed-care provider refused to cover physical therapy for her developmentally disabled toddler. In Deltona, Fla., there was a self-employed woman with diabetes who fell prey to an insurance scam. In Chicago, a former nun living in poverty told Cohn how she tried but failed to obtain charity care at a Catholic hospital. 
 By the end of Cohn's narrative we've run the gamut of woes: the hopeless fragmentation of the mental heath system; staggering medical debt; the dependence on job-based insurance; frayed social safety nets; lousy (or no) guarantees of preventive care; selective access to medications. Lack of insurance is a meaningful problem, too, especially for the mentally ill. But since 80 percent of all emergency room visits in 2004 were made by people who had at least some form of coverage, the problem can't be pinned solely on insurance. 
 The hand-picked subjects in ''Sick'' don't reflect the full range of causes for so much poor health in this country, many of them rooted in inertia: not watching one's diet or exercising, drinking to excess, smoking. Cohn's victims are in almost every instance hardworking, conscientious people blocked at every turn by a dysfunctional system. Thus, even as he vividly brings them to life, Cohn cautions that their stories ''are not so much representative as indicative,'' meant to show the perils faced by people ''when their need for medical care overwhelms their ability to pay for it.'' But ''Sick'' is much more than a meticulously drawn and moving compilation of crises. It is also an edifying primer on how we got here. To fine effect, the author weaves summaries of health care history into the case studies. He traces the developmental arcs of key institutions, like private insurance, employer-linked insurance, managed care, religious hospitals and corporate health care. We see Blue Cross and the first prepaid group practice in the bloom of their youth when idealism was high and implementation relatively straightforward. They flourish for a while but then decline under the weight of a troubled manufacturing economy, bottom-line imperatives of corporate health care, the rising cost of medical technologies and changing definitions of what constitutes basic benefits.
 Cohn also reminds us that efforts to enact a national health policy have been a staple of presidential politics in the past century. In the 1930s Franklin D. Roosevelt wanted to pursue a universal health insurance plan (as Theodore Roosevelt had done during his failed presidential bid in 1912, although Cohn doesn't mention it) but feared opposition from the American Medical Association and from state medical societies. Harry S. Truman had the same idea, only to meet resistance from union leaders concerned that members' benefits would decrease under a national system. A quarter-century later, President Nixon proposed an employer mandate to insure workers, and in the early 1990s we lived through the drama (and trauma) of President Clinton's thwarted reform effort. 
 ''Sick'' does not offer a prescription for our ailing health care system, but it does include a closing chapter on what to do. Here the argument turns tendentious. Critics of universal coverage, Cohn writes, often traffic in alarmist tales ''about rationing and waiting lines, followed by a horror story from Britain or Canada.'' Those complaints are ''wildly exaggerated'' and also unfair, he says, because the problem is not the result of universal health care but ''of universal health care on the cheap.'' But Cohn is himself being unfair when he sweepingly denounces ''the principles of modern conservatism'' for being ''conspicuously short on ... comfort or hope.'' In truth, there is nothing inherently pessimistic in choice, self-reliance or limited bureaucracy -- the values that underlie a market-based proposal like the one introduced by Senator Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat. In this plan, employers would no longer provide insurance and would instead convert those costs into a bigger paycheck, enabling workers to buy private insurance from providers who would then be forced to compete for business by offering better plans. (Wyden's proposal also offers subsidies for the unemployed.) 
 Cohn prefers the French health care system, calling it the ''showcase for what universal health care can achieve.'' His brief description does indeed make the French model, which is largely single-payer, look attractive. But since we are not given enough details -- an inevitable feature of a book that devotes only a fraction of its content to solutions -- the reader is left to take the author at his word. 
 Nor does Cohn fully consider fundamental questions. For example, can a health care market ever function like a regular market? Is it wiser to upend the entire system or concentrate on creating conditions that free the states to innovate on their own? Should we make private markets work better, or increase government involvement? 
 It's a pity that Cohn doesn't adequately address these questions, because they are critical to the issue of health care reform -- particularly for Americans, who historically have had a deep-seated aversion to centralization (as Truman found even among powerful unions). 
 In any event, meaningful changes in health care, at least at the federal level, will surely follow the incrementalism that marked policy changes in the Clinton years. Of course, incrementalism, too, can lead to a health care revolution. And Cohn's important book may bring us closer to that day.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photos by John Fulbrook) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); DISABLED PERSONS (84%); PARAMEDICS (79%); HEALTH INSURANCE (79%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HOSPITALS (78%); CHRONIC DISEASES (78%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); MENTAL ILLNESS (77%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (73%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (72%); PSYCHIATRY (69%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (68%); HEART DISEASE (68%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (68%); DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES (63%); INSURANCE FRAUD (62%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); DIABETES (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%); AMERICA'S HEALTH PLAN INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: Sally Satel; Jonathan Cohn

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



156 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 4; Style Desk; BOOKS OF STYLE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Get Out. No, Wait, Come Back!

BYLINE: By LIESL SCHILLINGER

 BODY:
Walking on EggshellsNavigating the Delicate Relationship Between Adult Children and Parents.By Jane Isay.256 pp., Flying Dolphin Press.$23.95. The Empty Nest31 Parents Tell the Truth About Relationships, Love, and Freedom After the Kids Fly the Coop.Edited by Karen Stabiner.320 pp., Voice (a Hyperion imprint).$23.95.
 WE could perhaps learn something from the female leatherback turtle. She lays her clutch of eggs then departs forever, never to discover how her progeny fared for the rest of her long life. 
 Would the hatchlings have led happier lives with her interference? She will never know. 
 Human parents, of course, lack the detachment of the turtle, these days more than ever it seems, while adult children find it difficult, sometimes impossible, to emotionally separate from their parents. That means you could easily find yourself coaching your 40-year-old daughter through her first pregnancy while fending off unsolicited baby-shower ideas from your 85-year-old mother.
 Perhaps it is a mercy that, unlike the leatherback turtle, humans don't live to be 150.
 For ''Walking on Eggshells,'' a quietly groundbreaking exploration of the ties between adult children and their parents, Jane Isay, the editor and writer, spoke with scores of Americans about complicated generational dynamics. ''I wanted to get a fix on those decades between the time the kids leave home and the time when we really need their help,'' she says. 
 Ms. Isay finds a boundary-bashing mother-in-law who called her son's wife ''fatty'' during her pregnancy; a nonagenarian who would phone her daughter (herself a grandmother) to nag her about her hairstyle; and a controlling mother who told her grown son what to wear: ''But Mom, I'm 60 years old,'' he protests. ''You're still my son,'' she retorts. 
 Ms. Isay lays down a long overdue 11th commandment: ''Thou shalt not give your grown children advice.'' And yet, she doesn't pretend that adult children are all right on their own. They often seek substantial economic support and emotional guidance from their parents well into their 30s (and beyond), she points out. 
 ''Today, many members of the baby-boom generation are better off than their children, and acts of generosity are common,'' Ms. Isay writes.
 With generosity comes strings. Parents can become resentful of repeated demands for cash; children can bite the hand that feeds.
 One mother, a free spirit at 67 who lives with her second husband on a houseboat, decided early on that adult children should not be dependent on their parents. She explained: ''They are 20, 30, 40, and they're adults, and they need to stand on their own. In the old days, you would probably be dead. You wouldn't be there for them to count on you. I think that's how it should be.'' 
 Ms. Isay's portraits have nuance and pathos, and there is much to learn from them, including the good news that, ''Since adulthood lasts for decades, we have plenty of time to adjust and to get it right.''
 THAT unromanticized wisdom should console the authors of ''The Empty Nest,'' a book of essays by parents who (mostly) mourn the departure of their young, even as they take guilty pleasure in being able (at last) to buy a red sports car, or walk around the living room naked.
 Harvey Molotch, whose wife died when his children were 2 and 5, remembers the family's glory days when as an exhausted but fulfilled single father he would plan the weekly family grocery-shopping expedition. ''I used to tell people that if my life were a soap opera, it would be 'Search for a Nap,' '' he recalls. 
 Recently, with his son at college and his daughter married, he automatically headed toward the children's food aisle before stopping himself. 
 ''The grocery-shopping cart was where my rubber hit the road, the place where I realized that life had changed,'' he writes. ''Which aisles do I now walk? What jars do I check out?'' It occurred to him, he writes, that ''I didn't even have to be there. I felt the luxury of ennui.'' 
 In the first chapter, ''Proof of Love,'' Karen Stabiner, the book's editor, anticipates the day next fall when she will load up a suitcase and take her daughter to college. ''How can you pack an entire life into a finite space?'' she wonders.
 Ms. Isay's book shows that you can't and that you don't have to, and so do the personal stories Ms. Stabiner has assembled in what probably is an exercise in creative catharsis. 
 In one chapter, an eerily far-seeing 7-year-old boy asks his mother, ''Why do you take such good care of me when you know I am going to leave you someday?'' The day he left for college, the boy's mother tearfully told a group of women that she was thinking of writing a book about ''the end of motherhood.'' An older woman reassured her, ''Motherhood never ends.'' 
 And as Ellen Goodman, a Pulitzer-winning columnist, notes in another chapter, neither does grandmotherhood. Ms. Goodman, the mother of a daughter and a stepdaughter, and grandmother of two, writes, ''If there were any more proof needed that care giving does not end, that family continues, it is grandchildren.'' 
 She jokes, ''What empty nest?''

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (90%); PARENTING (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); WRITERS (71%); BABY BOOMERS (65%) 

PERSON: Liesl Schillinger; Jane Isay; Karen Stabiner

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



157 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN/Milford Center, Conn.; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1768 words

HEADLINE: There's a History to All This History

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
AS suburbs stretch farther and farther out, the beachy Long Island Sound city of Milford, an hour and a half from New York City and an easy trip to places like New Haven and Stamford, finds itself changing in character -- shifting, for many, from second-home destination to home sweet home.
 Nowhere has this shift been more noticeable than in the historic neighborhood at the heart of the city, Milford Center -- where, in recent years, making changes to facades and outdoor spaces has gotten a lot more procedure-bound.
With its population of 10,000 making up 18 percent of Milford's total 55,000, Milford Center has several microneighborhoods of historical interest: one in its northern reaches that received historic designation in 1977; a second, in the southeast, on Gulf Street, that some preservationists see as the next worthwhile project; and a third, in the south, given historic designation only last month, with Lafayette, Pond and High Streets as its rough boundaries. 
 Last month, residents within that area voted by three to one to set rules governing the look of the district's 125 buildings -- in effect, to give zoning laws more teeth. Their motivation: Seeing condos and high-end rentals springing up in some parts of the neighborhood, and wondering whether some of its pre-Revolution-era homes could fall to developers. 
 Given that concern, said Thomas Wade, who moved to Milford Center six months ago from Devon, in western Milford, any potential hassles from the new rules are negligible. ''At least now we know that they're not going to tear down the homes across the street,'' he said. 
 Mr. Wade and his wife, Melissa, paid $460,000 for their Colonial Revival home, a two-story wood-sided house built around 1900, he said. It has four bedrooms, two baths, and a quarter-acre lot. It needs a new kitchen but, at 1,700 square feet, is 60 percent larger than their old house.
 And just as important as extra room is a smoother commute for Mr. Wade, who works in an investment bank in Stamford. Now, instead of driving to the train station and scrambling for a rare no-pay spot, he can walk across the city green to the station in five minutes. 
 ''I won't touch my car in a week,'' he said. ''I have to fire the engine on weekends to keep it in good shape.''
 The new rules, which have yet to be formalized, will ban certain changes unless they conform to existing styles. Although modern materials like vinyl siding were prohibited in the 1977 district, they may be allowed in this one, because the district is close enough to the water to be a threat to wooden siding. 
 Not everyone likes the idea of these rules. Thomas Thorndike, for one, says he is opposed to historic districts on principle but also because he lives on Gulf Street, where Milford Center's third such district might someday exist.
 ''I want to live in the most luxurious home I can without anybody bothering it,'' said Mr. Thorndike, who last month paid $1.85 million for an 1890s three-story Queen Anne, with five bedrooms, five and a half baths, and 4,500 square feet. 
 In fact, he's now building a 2,400-square-foot garage, which almost certainly would be in violation, should a historic district be instituted, said Mr. Thorndike, who works as a financial adviser in Woodbury. ''I don't want to live in a museum.'' 
 Nancy Bodick, a lifelong resident, remembers when the neighborhood was anything but, having lived through the decline in the 1960s. Ms. Bodickowns one of five local marinas, the Milford Boat Works, a 200-slip site that her grandfather founded on a former coal yard in 1946.
 Her house, an 1840 Greek Revival with two bedrooms, one and a half baths and 2,000 square feet, cost $50,000 in 1986 -- though at that point, ''you couldn't walk inside without a respirator,'' she said. After a $150,000 renovation, which removed everything but the exterior walls and the staircases, the home could sell for $600,000 today, Ms. Bodick said. 
 ''I like the old trees and the setbacks here,'' she said. ''But maybe I'm just a creature of habit.''What You'll Find
 Milford Center's boundaries roughly follow the stockade that fortified it in the 17th century, stretching from the harbor to Boston Post Road, and cut into two sections by train tracks across its middle.
 The northern historic district, clustered along North Street, has saltboxes and Italianates facing a necklace of parks with a pair of ponds fed by the Wepawaug River. Its homes, with roomy porches and deep lots, tend to stay in families for generations, though the Capes on West Town Street and colonials along Founders Way change hands more frequently, according to brokers. 
 To the south is the recently designated historic district -- and east of that, along Gulf Street, is the third area appealing to preservationists. There, homes marked with plaques detailing original residents are found alongside newer ranch-style houses. 
 New construction is spread throughout Milford Center, especially downtown, on the sites of former warehouses and factories. 
 As for rentals, six of the eight apartment buildings that the Smith Craft Real Estate Corporation owns in the city are in Milford Center. There are 218 one- and two-bedrooms, some with expensive finishes, and most under three years old.
 Their vacancy rate is below 1 percent, said Milly Beyer, a leasing agent with Spinnaker Property Management, and units are planned for Railroad and Noble Avenues.
 But the city has so far rejected Smith Craft's plan to build apartments on Prospect Street in Milford Center, a plan that residents and brokers say galvanized the creation of the recent historic district.What You'll Pay
 Milford lays claim to having the longest shoreline in Connecticut, but Milford Center itself doesn't have much waterfront property -- and the lack acts as a price curb. 
 Single-family homes typically cost $275,000 to $1 million, with an average of $475,000, according to Stephanie Ellison, a broker associate with Re/Max Right Choice, who has been selling area homes for 22 years. 
 For that amount, she said, a buyer gets a mid-1800s home with three bedrooms, one and a half baths and 1,800 square feet. Though lots are small, the typical buyer usually doesn't mind. ''These aren't people who hang around in the yard,'' Ms. Ellison said. ''A lot of these buyers own boats, which they use a lot.''
 In September, the Attolino Development Group opened the sales office for the Anchorage at Shipyard Lane, a clutch of luxury condos with harbor views, rising above a baseball field on New Haven Avenue. 
 There are 16 units in the development, ranging from 1,700-square-foot one-bedrooms to 2,200-square-foot two-bedrooms, and priced from $469,900 to $824,900, said Kristen Attolino, a sales associate with Coldwell Banker Moves. None have sold yet, though Ms. Attolino is betting that as spring progresses, ''people are going to like the in-town location and love that they're near trains, restaurants and the beach.'' 
 Renters pay about $1,200 for an 800-square-foot one-bedroom -- a bargain compared with prices in places like Fairfield, with similar commuting distances to New York.What to Do
 After a 20-year lull, Milford's main downtown in Milford Center is pulsing with activity, chockablock with boutiques selling hand-made jewelry, rare books, and bicycles. 
 In just the last two years, the Downtown Milford Business Association's dues-paying membership has more than doubled, to 86 from 42. Most are mom-and-pop shops, offering a contrast to nearby Westport, where high commercial rents have forced outmany independent retailers, according to Susan Shaw, the association's president.
 The streets really bustle after dark. It is not uncommon to find three restaurants within the same two blocks, each providing live music. One, Daniel Street, which opened in 2005, has either a band or a comedian five nights a week. 
 The neighborhood also has a Center for the Arts, a 100-seat auditorium and gallery space that since 1995 has operated out of a former train station building. According to William Meddick, executive director of the Milford Fine Arts Council, its plays and jazz offerings are popular enough that it recently began offering subscriptions. The Schools
 The neighborhood has three public elementary schools for kindergarten through Grade 5: Meadowside, Orange Avenue and Mathewson. 
 Harborside is the only public middle school, but there are two public high schools -- Joseph A. Foran and Jonathan Law, each with roughly the same enrollment, about 1,050.
 Similarly, both offer about a dozen Advanced Placement classes a year, depending on interest, including economics, European history and Latin. Tennis, football and gymnastics are some of the 14 varsity sports, and after-school clubs focus on dance, foreign language and politics.
 SAT scores are slightly higher at Foran, which averaged 512 on math and 521 on verbal in 2005, compared with state averages of 512 math and 510 verbal. At Law, students scored 504 on math and 510 on verbal. 
 In 2005, 83 percent of Foran graduates and 81.5 percent of Law graduates attended four- or two-year colleges, said Larry Schaefer, the city's acting superintendent.The History
 Tucked between New Haven and Fairfield Counties, though somewhat removed in spirit from both, Milford has had an independent streak since the earliest days, existing for a few years as its own colony, after being settled by Boston transplants in 1639.
 When the earliest settlers died, they were buried without headstones, though the city later memorialized them by carving their names into the pink granite bridge, built in 1889, that arches dramatically through downtown, said Richard N. Platt Jr., the city historian. His ancestors Richard and Mary Platt earned spots. The Commute
 Westbound rush-hour trains take about 40 minutes to get to Stamford, and a monthly round-trip pass costs $87.22 online, slightly more at the station. Monthlies to New York, meanwhile, cost $345.94 online. 
 Because Milford is far enough from most commuter destinations, passengers can usually get a seat in the morning, although that's not always true coming the other way. A recent state proposal to do away with one afternoon train was rejected after a public outcry.Going Forward
 There is no real place to buy groceries in Milford Center, though there has been talk of starting a farmers' market.
 Also, Milford Lisman Landing Marina, a 40-slip facility that opened on the site of a sewage-treatment plant in 2003, packs in the summer boaters. The flood of tourists can turn certain bars rowdy, residents say.

GRAPHIC: Photos: FLIGHT PATH -- Ponds fed by the Wepawaug River provide a view as well as a wildlife habitat along North Street, in a historic district created in 1977.
On the Market: 90 SHELTER COVE ROAD -- A 2006 vinyl-sided colonial with three bedrooms, two full and two half baths, listed for $875,000. (203) 878-7424
234 GULF STREET -- A 1790 colonial with gabled dormer, four bedrooms, two baths and five fireplaces, listed for $499,999. (203) 876-7507
 100 LAFAYETTE AVENUE -- A 1975 wood-sided ranch with three bedrooms and one and a half baths, listed for $356,000. (203) 795-5377, Ext. 106 (Photographs by Alan Zale for The New York Times)Map of Connecticut highlighting Milford Center. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (71%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (71%); ZONING (69%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (60%) Geographic Profiles

PERSON: C J Hughes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Milford Center (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



158 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: A West Side Story With a Promising Ending

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
TWO decades after deciding to resuscitate its economically troubled west side, Annapolis, Md., is now placing its hopes for a continued neighborhood revival on a new mixed-use development called Park Place.
 The $250 million complex -- with its European-style plaza, fountains and narrow, winding streets -- will include 208 luxury condominiums, a 225-room Westin Hotel, 200,000 square feet of office space and plenty of room for boutiques and restaurants.
City officials say that the project is already attracting other upscale developments to the area, and they are hoping for even more after the first part of Park Place opens this spring. 
 Developers are finding a neighborhood steeped in history. Gen. George Washington arrived on the west side -- once the gateway to this city on the Potomac River -- in the 1780s. Under the Articles of Confederation, Annapolis, which is Maryland's capital, was once also the nation's capital. 
 But two centuries or so later, the grand thoroughfare on which he traveled, now called the Inner West Street corridor, had become what Ellen O. Moyer, the city's mayor, described as ''a scary section of road lined with abandoned lots and failed businesses.'' 
 By contrast, Annapolis's historic east side continued to hum with activity. That part of the 6.5-square-mile metropolis -- the city's population is 35,900, according to 2000 census figures -- consists of mostly upscale single-family homes, an area of small shops and pubs catering to the tourist trade, and historic sites like the United States Naval Academy.
 Since 1985, Annapolis has spent around $13 million on the west side to revamp outdated zoning laws, build a new traffic circle, bury utility lines and install tree-lined brick sidewalks. It has also created a special tax district for the ongoing construction of a $25 million, three-story underground parking garage for 1,200 cars. 
 Restaurants and shops have since opened in restored turn-of-the-20th-century homes near Park Place, and now home buyers, particularly those looking for luxury apartments, have rediscovered the area.
 ''Our west side is finally becoming the uptown here that we've all been waiting for,'' said Kurt A. Hornig, 37, a real estate salesman who works in Baltimore. ''The west side is becoming very chic, like South Beach in Miami or D.C.'' 
 Mr. Hornig is selling his three-bedroom house on the city's east side, where many homes go for $1 million and more, and moving into a one-bedroom condo in Park Place. 
 He is being joined there by Bill and Shirley Vining, who were eager to downsize but unwilling to move to a larger metropolis like Washington to the west or Baltimore to the northwest, each about 25 miles away. They bought a two-bedroom condo. 
 Park Place prices range from $525,000 for a one-bedroom to $1.99 million for a duplex penthouse with two terraces.
 The changes on the west side had been a long time in coming. Despite broad community support, the city's revitalization plans were delayed by economic downturns, explained Tom Smith, the city's planning commissioner.
 ''Not a whole lot was happening in the way of development during the recession in 1990-92,'' Mr. Smith said. Then, after the city's zoning laws were rewritten in the late 1990s to encourage more development, he said, the 9/11 terrorist attacks took another toll on the local economy. 
 The 11-acre Park Place is being developed jointly by the Carlyle Group, an investment company based in Washington, and the Jerome J. Parks Companies, a local family business that has constructed some 30 projects in the Baltimore-Washington area over the last 50 years. 
 About 70 percent of the condominiums have already been sold, according to Jerome J. Parks, who is the company's chief executive. 
 The condos will enable buyers like the Vinings to downsize from their five-bedroom colonial on the east side yet still remain in the city. 
 ''We're at that stage of life when we don't want a big house anymore, but we also don't want to leave friends and family who live around here,'' said Mr. Vining, 71, a semiretired management consultant. ''Up until now, though, there were no alternatives in Annapolis.'' 
 Mike and Joyce Gering, who live part-time in Tucson, where Mr. Gering runs a solar energy company, also bought a two-bedroom condo at Park Place. With strong family ties in Annapolis and the surrounding area -- they raised their family of nine children in nearby Dunkirk -- they had wanted a home base in Maryland. 
 ''We set out to find a penthouse-level condo in D.C. or Baltimore,'' Mr. Gering said. ''But Washington is too big a city for our tastes and Baltimore is a little out of the way, so when we heard about what was going on in Annapolis, we jumped.''
 The couple say they like the west side's easy access along major highways to Washington and Baltimore and its proximity to the Baltimore-Washington International Airport. 
 Douglas Carter, the architect in charge of Park Place's design, said he was instructed by the developers to ''tap into history.'' 
 After a recent visit to Paris, Mr. Parks returned with photos of Old World architectural details that he wanted incorporated into the new construction. 
 Mr. Carter explained that his firm, Davis Carter Scott Architects, which has offices in McLean and Middleburg in Virginia, planned ''a development that would fit into the community rather than look like it was inserted into it.'' 
 Annapolis is renowned for buildings at the United States Naval Academy, which has three Beaux Arts-style structures designed in 1899 by Ernest Flagg. 
 Park Place's buildings include European-style Beaux Arts architectural details, small plazas and landscaped courtyards, according to Mr. Carter. The grand plaza and one of the roads can be closed off for street festivals and special events. 
 Four commercial tenants, including Merrill Lynch and the Building Owners and Managers Institute International, have so far leased 125,000 square feet. 
 The retailers include the Papery, Varuna Aveda Salon & Dayspa, Starbucks Coffee and the Carpaccio Italian Bistro. Morton's, the Steakhouse, a dining chain with seven other restaurants in the Washington-Baltimore area, also plans to open a 130-seat restaurant at Park Place, according to Roger J. Drake, a spokesman for Morton's.
 While pleased with the progress made so far on the west side, Ms. Moyer, the mayor of Annapolis, conceded that ''there is still a lot of work to do.'' 
 Aging strip shopping centers still line the corridor. ''It's not a very impressive introduction to the city,'' Ms. Moyer said. ''In time we plan to make more improvements to turn it into a true gateway and bring back some of the grandeur that it had when Washington used to come to Annapolis.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 15, 2007

 CORRECTION:
The National Perspectives article last Sunday, about a new mixed-used development on the west side of Annapolis, Md., misidentified the river that touches this part of the city. It is the Severn River, not the Potomac.

GRAPHIC: Photos: ANNAPOLIS PLAN -- The first phase of construction on the Park Place mixed-use development, left, and in a rendering above, is to be completed this spring in Annapolis, Md. The developers, Jerome J. Parks and his son, J. Jeremy Parks, are pictured right to left. (Photographs by Steve Ruark for The New York Times
 above, CAD Renderer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CITIES (90%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); HISTORIC SITES (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); RETAILERS (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); ZONING (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); OFFICE PROPERTY (71%); MAYORS (71%); CENSUS (67%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (66%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (64%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (63%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (50%); TOURISM (50%) Area Planning and Renewal; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Condominiums; Housing

ORGANIZATION: Carlyle Group; Parks, Jerome J, Companies

PERSON: Elsa Brenner

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (98%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (88%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) MARYLAND USA (98%); MARYLAND, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) Annapolis (Md)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



159 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 4; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: Making Sense of All the Math

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
THERE is a cruel logic in the fact that the most important purchase of a person's life is also the most daunting. Mortgage products, especially in recent years, have grown complex enough to strain the mathematical capacities of many borrowers, and shifting market conditions only add to the complexity.
 A new quarterly index of mortgage rates created by Susan M. Wachter, an assistant secretary of housing and urban development in the Clinton administration who is now a professor of real estate and finance at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, aims to simplify that process. Dr. Wachter's U.S. Mortgage Payment Index, which can be found at www.genworth.com/mortgageinfo, lists five common mortgages and shows how their payments will change over five years. 
While other indexes track current rates for specific mortgages separately, or track rates tied to a borrower's specific finances, the Mortgage Payment Index seeks to provide an apples-to-apples comparison. 
 ''Borrowers really cannot competitively price mortgages,'' Dr. Wachter said. ''There's no effective way for them to comparison-shop and look at five different mortgages and think through what's best for them.''
 The first index, published late last month, features 30-year fixed mortgages at 6.25 percent interest with two types of mortgage insurance. In all cases, the loan is for $200,000. 
 For comparison, there is an interest-only loan at 6.5 percent, on which borrowers begin paying principal only after 10 years, and a ''pay-option ARM'' at 6.875 percent, on which borrowers can pay even less than the nominal interest rate in the loan's early stages. 
 The fifth mortgage is an ''80-15 combo,'' on which borrowers make a down payment of 5 percent and take out a first mortgage at 6.25 percent for 80 percent of the principal and a second mortgage or a home-equity line of credit for the remaining 15 percent at 9.875 percent for five years.
 The index shows that at the stated interest rates, which reflect the current market, borrowers with the fixed-rate loans would pay $1,269 or $1,361 initially, depending on the insurance plan selected, and $1,269 and $1,231 after five years. Those with the interest-only loan would pay $1,172 initially and $1,277 in five years, and those with the pay-option ARM would pay $739 now, but $2,109 after five years.
 With the combo loan, also known as a piggyback loan, borrowers would pay about $1,300 now and roughly $1,400 after five years.
 The index also includes analysis and advice from Dr. Wachter. Piggyback loans, for instance, suit buyers ''who may have a windfall of funds to pay off the second mortgage,'' Dr. Wachter writes, or those with poor credit ''who can withstand a rising rate environment.'' 
 Heather Dougherty, an analyst with Nielsen//NetRatings in New York, a consulting firm specializing in Internet issues, said the index ''is a very good place to start if you're looking for a mortgage.''
 ''It's simple, which is very important,'' Ms. Dougherty said. ''There's a ton of data online on mortgages, but people often don't know what to make of it.''
 Ms. Dougherty pointed out that Genworth Financial, a mortgage insurance company, provides financial backing for the site. ''There's always skepticism when a site is backed by a company that could benefit from the information,'' she said. But given Dr. Wachter's credentials, Ms. Dougherty contends that consumers can have confidence in the information.
 Dan Duffy, the immediate past president of the Connecticut Association of Mortgage Brokers, agreed in general, but said that borrowers should look carefully at Dr. Wachter's assumptions to be sure they cannot do better. For instance, he questions whether rates will go as high as Dr. Wachter thinks they will in five years. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE LOANS (94%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE LENDER GUARANTY INSURANCE (78%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); SECOND MORTGAGES (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); HOME EQUITY CREDIT LINES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); CITIES (56%) Housing; Mortgages; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%)

PERSON: Bob Tedeschi; Susan M (Dr) Wachter

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



160 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Little Changes, Big Results

BYLINE: By Franklin E. Zimring. 
Franklin E. Zimring, a law professor at the University of California, Berkeley, is the author of ''The Great American Crime Decline.''

DATELINE: BERKELEY, CALIF. 

 BODY:
DESPITE the recent killings of two auxiliary police officers and a restaurant worker in Greenwich Village, New York City continues to ride the largest and longest municipal winning streak in the recorded history of crime control in the United States. Alone among major cities, New York has enjoyed a decade and a half of steadily declining crime that puts it closer to the relatively low crime statistics it experienced in the early 1960s than to any more recent era. From 1990 highs, rates of homicide and robbery are down by about 75 percent, and the rates of all major crimes are now far less than half the level of 15 years ago. 
 The city's crime drop remains amazing when you compare current crime levels not just with 1990 peak rates but the average year in the 1980s. Rates of robbery, homicide, burglary and auto theft are down two-thirds from the averages of two decades ago. 
The human arithmetic of New York's public safety achievement is also impressive. The homicide toll in 1990 was more than 30 deaths for every 100,000 residents; in 2004, that rate was down to 7.4 per 100,000. For a city of eight million, the difference between these two rates is about 1,800 lives saved. Every year.
 Three policing changes introduced after 1990 account for between a quarter and a half of the city's decline -- hiring more officers, increasing the aggressiveness of policing tactics and changing management systems -- but that doesn't tell the whole story. 
 Indeed, at least half of New York City's drop in crime reflected a national phenomenon that had nothing to do with policing. What New York City has proved is that huge changes in crime and violence can happen without fundamental changes in urban populations, economic opportunity, housing, schooling, culture or transportation. This demonstration has destroyed the conventional wisdom of social science and the major assumptions of almost all scholars.
 The New York City of today much resembles the city at the beginning of the 1990s. The same demographic groups live in the city in about the same proportions as in 1990; housing and education conditions are similar; poverty and unemployment are down slightly, but income inequality is up. 
 And these conditions were supposed to produce disaster. Ten years ago, conservative commentators said that the ''moral poverty'' of urban ghettos was spawning a generation of juvenile ''super predators.'' Critics on the left embraced a doctrine close to ''no peace without justice,'' arguing that structural inequalities and cultural dynamics of barrio and ghetto meant that violence would persist along with the urban status quo. 
 But the crime wave of the super predators never happened. And chronic structural problems didn't short-circuit the crime drop either. There have been no major changes in education and economic mobility in New York, nor have the illegal drug market, hip-hop culture or the number of single-parent families altered to any significant extent. 
 What the New York City experience teaches is that modest changes in urban environments can produce big changes in crime levels. Add up all of the changes in police numbers and tactics, in population, in economic opportunity and jobs, and you are talking about a city that is perhaps 10 percent different from what it was 15 years ago. But that 10 percent difference has made a huge difference in life-threatening crime. It turns out that our populations, the places they live and the institutions that touch their lives are not hard-wired to produce high and invariant levels of urban crime. 
 A drop in violent crime is a special benefit for the poor because a clear majority of homicide victims are disadvantaged racial and ethnic minorities. And that means when crime rates go down, the benefits of the decline are also concentrated on the poor and disadvantaged. The crime decline was probably the only significant public benefit of the 1990s that favored the disadvantaged rather than the privileged.
 The looser linkage between urban conditions and crime rates is good news for city residents because it allows us to address crime problems with bite-sized and pragmatic countermeasures. What we now know is that we don't have to change the world to change the crime rate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIME RATES (91%); HOMICIDE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); HISTORY (89%); ROBBERY (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (89%); SLUM DWELLINGS (87%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); BURGLARY (77%); CRIME STATISTICS (77%); VEHICLE THEFT (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); STATISTICS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (50%) Crime and Criminals; Police

PERSON: Franklin E (Prof) Zimring

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



161 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; URBAN STUDIES / SURVIVING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: Where Mozart Tops the Charts

BYLINE: By JENNIFER BLEYER

 BODY:
AN oboist from the New York Philharmonic telephoned looking for some Astor Piazzolla tango etudes. Then an amateur cellist called to ask what was in stock by Scott Joplin.
 The telephone shrills constantly at Frank Music Company, where the sheet music for thousands of duets, quintets and concertos is wrapped in brown folders, piled high on metal shelves and sold out of spartan 10th-floor quarters on West 54th Street near Broadway. 
''You're the second unlucky parent to call me in a row,'' Heidi Rogers, the store's owner, told one caller. ''I don't sell band music. I'm in the heavy longhair business. You know: Beethoven, Stravinsky.''
 These are trying times for the sheet music business, which has been increasingly chipped away at by illegal photocopying and online file sharing. The loss is especially noticeable in New York. The 1947 telephone directory listed nearly 100 places in Manhattan to buy sheet music. Now, only a half dozen are listed, among them Patelson Music House on West 56th Street and the Juilliard Bookstore.
 Although her store is safe for now, Ms. Rogers worries that she may have to shutter its doors if the building is sold. ''It's like many other things in this economy,'' she said sadly. ''If it isn't big, it doesn't exist.''
 Business persists at Frank Music in large part because of Ms. Rogers, a feisty, black-haired 55-year-old who putters around her shop with her thick plastic glasses perched near the tip of her nose. She is the store's heartbeat, her encyclopedic knowledge drawing customers back again and again.
 The stock is vast and organized by composer, from Alexander Arutunian (folk music-inspired Armenian) to Alexander Zemlinsky (Austrian composer and conductor). An avowed Luddite, Ms. Rogers does not keep a computer inventory. She uses pencils until they are sharpened to two-inch stubs, and gives customers handwritten receipts on scraps of paper. 
 She also sells fresh eggs, $4 a dozen, from the 68 chickens she keeps at her weekend home in Delaware County. As she put it, ''Why be in one dying profession when you can be in two: music dealer and farmer?'' 
 The business was started in 1937 by Frank Marx, a former floor sweeper at G. Lipskin & Son, a music store on East 86th Street. Ms. Rogers's father, a composer named Milton Rogers, bought the store in 1978 and handed over its daily operation to his daughter, then just 26.
 On a recent afternoon, a steady stream of musicians made their way in. Ms. Rogers commiserated with a gangly young trumpet player about his teacher, a well-known taskmaster, and advised a concert pianist with a Southern drawl who was looking for new material.
 Dimitri Moderbacher, a music teacher at the Dwight School, on the Upper West Side, came in seeking flute music for a student who favored Mozart. After trading pleasantries with him, Ms. Rogers padded over to the flute section. JENNIFER BLEYER

CORRECTION-DATE: April 15, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about Frank Music Company, a sheet music store, misstated the circumstances in which the owner, Heidi Rogers, acquired the store. She bought it on her own in 1978; her father, the composer Milton Rogers, never owned it.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Heidi Rogers in her element at Frank Music Company. (Photo by Willie Davis for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (91%); MUSIC (91%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (89%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (78%); RECORD INDUSTRY (77%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENT & SUPPLY STORES (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); BOOKSTORES (70%) Music; Company and Organization Profiles

ORGANIZATION: Frank Music Co

PERSON: Heidi Rogers; Jennifer Bleyer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



162 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; DEVELOPMENT; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: A New Proposal to Rescue Yonkers' Waterfront

BYLINE: By DIANA MARSZALEK

DATELINE: YONKERS 

 BODY:
JOINING Yonkers' quest to bring life to its ailing waterfront, a developer wants to turn the long-abandoned Glenwood Power Station into a contemporary art museum and a residential complex featuring world-class architecture.
 The developer, Erik A. Kaiser, the founder and chief executive of the REMI Companies, based in Hoboken, N.J., has proposed using the deteriorating brick power plant as a base for an ultramodern, color-splattered art and condominium complex, at a cost he estimated at $250 million.
The London-based architect Will Alsop, whose signature style marks buildings in Europe, Asia and Canada, would design the project. 
 Under the proposal, the main residential tower will be 25 stories, and the complex will have 350 apartments and condominiums, priced for middle-market buyers and renters.
 On March 30, at a meeting at the Hudson River Museum, Mr. Kaiser and Mr. Alsop answered questions about the proposal. Mr. Kaiser said the complex would be the state's first carbon-free building and would use rooftop wind turbines to create enough energy to power the building. Surplus energy could be sold to power companies, he said. Solar panels would also be used in the building's hot water system.
 ''Let's attract people to Yonkers,'' he said. ''Let's not build a building just because we can.''
 In a telephone interview, Mr. Kaiser said that progress in environmentally friendly engineering would make the Glenwood project a prototype for future construction. ''We will be able to create a new standard for what one environmental building can look like,'' he said. 
 While designers hope to incorporate some of the existing power plant into the new building, Mr. Alsop said that most of the plant, including the smoke stacks, would have to be dismantled, despite its historic appeal.
 ''It's a beautiful building,'' Mr. Alsop said. ''But it will fall down if no one does anything about it.''
 Mr. Kaiser's proposal -- which he expects to introduce formally to the city in the next few months and is probably years away from groundbreaking -- is the latest in a series of proposed ventures aimed at turning Yonkers' lackluster waterfront into a destination for residents and visitors.
 Already in the works is a sweeping $3.1 billion mixed-use plan for the waterfront area south of the power plant by the development partnership Stuever Fidelco Cappelli. That project, which is to include a minor league baseball stadium, is being spearheaded by a partnership that includes Louis R. Cappelli, a Yonkers native who has been involved in recent projects in White Plains and New Rochelle.
 While communities usually promote such projects as urban redevelopment, there is some question whether Yonkers' waterfront has ever been developed in the first place.
 ''They were talking about redevelopment way back in the late 1800s,'' the City Council president, Chuck Lesnick, said at the museum meeting. ''For better or worse, urban renewal passed Yonkers by.''
 With builders now chomping at the bit, however, some residents warn that unwieldy development could bring too much too soon, blocking views of the Hudson River and clogging streets with traffic. 
 Vincent J. Wilson, a marketing executive with American Express who recently moved to Yonkers, said that while he welcomed development that would improve the area, he was concerned about its affect on affordable housing and traffic. ''It's a feeding frenzy here,'' he said. ''I think smart development is what we need.''
 Barbara Segal, a local artist, said she was concerned about trading history for skyscrapers, but added that Mr. Kaiser's plan intrigued her.
 ''I love incredible architecture,'' she said. ''I'm all for it to set us apart and push us into the future.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: POWER PLAY -- The long-abandoned Glenwood Power Station. (Photo by Uli Seit for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); WIND ENERGY (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); SOLAR ENERGY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (77%); GREEN BUILDING (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); ENGINEERING (75%); WIND POWER PLANTS (73%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); BASEBALL (60%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (60%); EXECUTIVES (57%) Area Planning and Renewal; Solar Energy; Turbines

ORGANIZATION: Remi Cos

PERSON: Erik A Kaiser; Will Alsop; Diana Marszalek

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (72%); ASIA (57%) Yonkers (NY); Yonkers (NY)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



163 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: A War Of Narratives

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

DATELINE: ON THE DEAD SEA, JORDAN 

 BODY:
I just attended a conference that was both illuminating and depressing. It was co-sponsored by the Center for Strategic Studies at the University of Jordan and the American Enterprise Institute, and the idea was to get Americans and moderate Arab reformers together to talk about Iraq, Iran, and any remaining prospects for democracy in the Middle East. 
 As it happened, though, the Arab speakers mainly wanted to talk about the Israel lobby. One described a book edited in the mid-1990s by the Jewish policy analyst David Wurmser as the secret blueprint for American foreign policy over the past decade. A pollster showed that large majorities in Arab countries believe that the Israel lobby has more influence over American policy than the Bush administration. Speaker after speaker triumphantly cited the work of Stephen Walt, John Mearsheimer and Jimmy Carter as proof that even Americans were coming to admit that the Israel lobby controls their government. 
 The problems between America and the Arab world have nothing to do with religious fundamentalism or ideological extremism, several Arab speakers argued. They have to do with American policies toward Israel, and the forces controlling those policies. 
 As for problems in the Middle East itself, these speakers added, they have a common source, Israel. One elderly statesman noted that the four most pressing issues in the Middle East are the Arab-Israeli dispute, instability in Lebanon, chaos in Iraq and the confrontation with Iran. They are all interconnected, he said, and Israel is at the root of each of them. 
 We Americans tried to press our Arab friends to talk more about the Sunni-Shiite split, the Iraqi civil war and the rise of Iran, but they seemed uninterested. They mimicked a speech King Abdullah of Jordan recently delivered before Congress, in which he scarcely mentioned the Iraqi chaos on his border. It was all Israel, all the time. 
 The Americans, needless to say, had a different narrative. We tended to argue that problems like Muslim fundamentalism, extremism and autocracy could not be blamed on Israel or Paul Wolfowitz but had deeper historical roots. We tended to see the Israeli-Palestinian issue not as the root of all fundamentalism, but as a problem made intractable by fundamentalism. 
 In other words, they had their narrative and we had ours, and the two passed each other without touching. But the striking thing about this meeting was the emotional tone. There seemed to be a time, after 9/11, when it was generally accepted that terror and extremism were symptoms of a deeper Arab malaise. There seemed to be a general recognition that the Arab world had fallen behind, and that it needed economic, political and religious modernization.
 But there was nothing defensive or introspective about the Arab speakers here. In response to Bernard Lewis's question, ''What Went Wrong?'' their answer seemed to be: Nothing's wrong with us. What's wrong with you?
 The events of the past three years have shifted their diagnosis of where the cancer is -- from dysfunction in the Arab world to malevolence in Jerusalem and in Aipac. Furthermore, the Walt and Mearsheimer paper on the Israel lobby has had a profound effect on Arab elites. It has encouraged them not to be introspective, not to think about their own problems, but to blame everything on the villainous Israeli network. 
 And so we enter a more intractable phase in the conflict, which will not be a war over land or oil or even democratic institutions, but a war over narratives. The Arabs will nurture this Zionist-centric mythology, which is as self-flattering as it is self-destructive. They will demand that the U.S. and Israel adopt their narrative and admit historical guilt. Failing politically, militarily and economically, they will fight a battle for moral superiority, the kind of battle that does not allow for compromises or truces. 
 Americans, meanwhile, will simply want to get out. After 9/11, George Bush called on the U.S. to get deeply involved in the Middle East. But now, most Americans have given up on their ability to transform the Middle East and on Arab willingness to change. Faced with an arc of conspiracy-mongering, most Americans will get sick of the whole cesspool, and will support any energy policy or anything else that will enable them to cut ties with the region. 
 What we have is not a clash of civilizations, but a gap between civilizations, increasingly without common narratives, common goals or means of communication. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FUNDAMENTALISM (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); CIVIL WAR (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Freedom and Human Rights

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (58%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (56%) David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); ISRAEL (96%); MIDDLE EAST (95%); IRAQ (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); JORDAN (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); LEBANON (79%) Middle East; Israel; Iraq; Middle East

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



164 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: Bricks, Mortar And Priorities

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Our Crumbling Foundation,'' by Bob Herbert (column, April 5):
 Our federal, state and local governments seem still to be guided by the outdated principles of ''planned obsolescence.'' If a school, levee, highway or bridge is crumbling, build a new one. Finance it with bonds for our children to pay. 
Over 50 years ago, I went to the oldest public high school in New Orleans. The brick building still stands there on Canal Street needing repairs, but it is stronger than many of the newer structures passing for schools today. 
 Our crumbling foundations are also a dangerous symbol that we have lost whatever sense of history and continuity we might have once had and will now accept a disposable society.
 Disposable buildings, levees, roads, cities and even people. Our foundation is crumbling, and it's more than just bricks and mortar that we are losing.Theodore S. Voelker Copake, N.Y., April 5, 2007To the Editor:
 The bill for the last generation's planning mistakes is now coming due. Spread-out housing and scattered jobs require more driving and longer pipes. With suburbs already in place, we find that widening heavily traveled roads and laying utilities beneath them is much more expensive than building on empty farmland.
 Closing the gap between infrastructure costs and revenues requires a push from both sides. New revenues are badly needed, but they have to be spent more wisely than in past decades. 
 The focus should be on improving old and new urban centers with better mass transit, underground electric and phone wires, and new services like community-wide Wi-Fi access. 
 Buyers of new tract houses and office parks should pay for the longer highways, pipes and wires that spread-out development demands; they should no longer be subsidized by taxpayers and utility ratepayers who live in denser communities that are more economically and environmentally efficient.Benjamin Ross Bethesda, Md., April 5, 2007The writer is vice president of Action Committee for Transit, a Maryland citizen advocacy group.To the Editor:
 Bob Herbert says Americans ''may have to wait for another New Orleans'' before taking seriously the problem of our nation's crumbling infrastructure.
 Our leaders haven't raised federal taxes to help New Orleans and the Gulf Coast recover from Katrina, to fight the war in Iraq or to help New York City recover from 9/11. The effects of underfinancing are well documented in Iraq and New Orleans. 
 New York, with its wealth created as a central node in the global economy, managed to recover by combining federal aid with significantly raised local taxes.
 Our tax-cutting national leaders have sacrificed the long-term health of America's infrastructure for short-term political gains. Instead of waiting for another disaster to roll out underfinanced recovery programs in front of the cameras, they should begin the unsexy work of consensus-building and demanding shared sacrifice from all taxpayers for the monumental infrastructure costs we all should pay.Jonathan Carey Astoria, Queens, April 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (77%); BUDGETS (76%); WRITERS (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); IRAQ WAR (72%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (69%); SUBURBS (66%); UTILITY RATES (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (56%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (51%) Public Works; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: Bob Herbert; Theodore S Voelker; Benjamin Ross; Jonathan Carey

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



165 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk; NOTICED; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: When a Brand Name Considers a Move

BYLINE: By STEWART AIN

 BODY:
THE Arizona Beverage Company is nearing a decision on whether to move its headquarters from Lake Success to Woodbury or to New Jersey. If Arizona Beverage goes, it will be the second company in recent months to announce intentions to move its headquarters from the village, which is in northwestern Nassau County; Canon USA said in November that it was going to Melville. 
 Thomas J. Stringer, director of business incentives and site selection for Duff & Phelps, a financial advisory company in Manhattan that was hired to analyze the move, said that the Hornell Brewing Company, Arizona Beverage's parent company, had been looking for a new site for a year and a half.
He said Hornell was considering building a headquarters on a vacant 100,000-square-foot site in Woodbury, in far eastern Nassau, at a cost of $35 million, or renovating a building in New Jersey. He declined to name the site but said the New Jersey Department of Commerce had offered incentives.
 ''We're within a two- or three-month time frame for making a decision,'' Mr. Stringer said.
 The Nassau County Industrial Development Agency has offered about $3.5 million in sales- and property-tax exemptions to induce Arizona Beverage to stay in the county, Mr. Stringer said.
 He said Arizona Beverage, which was founded in 1992 and produces iced-tea drinks, has about 120 employees who work in leased space of 38,000 square feet. 
 Howard Fensterman, chairman of the Nassau Industrial Development Agency, said that should Arizona decide to move to Woodbury and take advantage of the incentives, ''it would be obligated to hire 50 more employees over three years.''
 Mayor Ronald S. Cooper of Lake Success said that Arizona and Canon were each looking to expand their business to their own campus. ''I don't think there is anything inherently wrong'' with the village, he said.
 Being 18 miles from Manhattan and within minutes of major highways, it is ideally situated for commercial offices, he said.
 Pearl M. Kamer, chief economist for the Long Island Association, a business group, said there was a ''fairly tight office market, so it is reasonable to expect that this space will be re-rented within a reasonable period of time.''
 Mr. Cooper said the landlord might seek a change in the assessed value to lower the tax bill only if the space remained empty for more than a year. Otherwise, he said, the village is not hurt by such corporate moves.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Vic DeLucia for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY RELOCATIONS (90%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); MAYORS (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); OFFICE PROPERTY (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); PROPERTY LEASES (71%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (66%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (53%) Beverages; Relocation of Business

COMPANY: HORNELL BREWING CO INC (71%); CANON USA INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Hornell Brewing Co; Arizona Beverage Co

INDUSTRY: SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (71%); SIC3579 OTHER OFFICE MACHINES (58%)

PERSON: Stewart Ain

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Lake Success (NY); Woodbury (NY); New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



166 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: A CITIZEN'S CALENDAR

 BODY:
A selective listing of state, county and local government events across Connecticut this week. (All dates and times subject to confirmation.) Items should be submitted by mail at least three weeks in advance to the Connecticut Op-Ed Page, The New York Times, 229 West 43rd Street, New York, N.Y. 10036, or by e-mail to ctcivic@nytimes.com.STATE OF CONNECTICUTHartford Connecticut Commission on Human Rights and Opportunities. 
Thursday at 2 p.m. 21 Grand Street. (860) 541-3400. Hartford Underground Storage Tank Petroleum Clean-Up Account Review Board. Tuesday at 1:30 p.m. Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection Headquarters, 79 Elm Street. (860) 424-3370.Hartford State Implementation Plan Revision Advisory Committee. Thursday at 9 a.m. Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection Headquarters, 79 Elm Street. (860) 424-3027.Hartford State Elections Enforcement Commission. Wednesday at 9 a.m. 20 Trinity Street. (860) 566-1776. Madison Siting Council hearing on an application to discharge waters. Wednesday at 6:30 p.m. Madison Town Campus, 8 Campus Drive. (860) 827-2935.Manchester Siting Council public hearing on an application by Optasite Towers and Omnipoint Communications. Thursday at 3 p.m. Lincoln Center, 494 Main Street. (860) 827-2935.New Britain Energy and telecommunications meeting. Tuesday at 1:30 p.m. Connecticut Siting Council, 10 Franklin Square. (860) 827-2935. FAIRFIELD COUNTYBethel Building Committee for Bethel High School. Thursday at 7 p.m. Clifford J. Hurgin Municipal Center, 1 School Street. (203) 794-8501. Danbury Commission on Persons With Disabilities. Tuesday at 6:30 p.m. Danbury City Hall, 155 Deer Hill Avenue. (203) 797-4500. Darien Planning and Zoning Commission. Tuesday at 8 p.m. Darien Town Hall, 2 Renshaw Road. (203) 656-7300. Darien Charter Revision Commission. Thursday at 11 a.m. Darien Town Hall, 2 Renshaw Road. (203) 656-7300. Fairfield Solid Waste and Recycling Commission. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Sullivan Independence Hall, 725 Old Post Road. (203) 266-3008. Newtown Charter Revision Commission. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Newtown Town Hall South, 3 Main Street. (203) 426-6470. Redding Connecticut Forest and Park Association. Tuesday at 6 p.m. Redding Town Hall, 100 Hill Road. (203) 938-2002. Trumbull Board of Finance. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Trumbull Town Hall, 5866 Main Street. (203) 452-5000. HARTFORD COUNTYManchester Citizens Network of the Capital Region forum. Tuesday at 6:30 p.m. Whiton Memorial Library, 100 North Main Street. peopleprosperityplace.org/forums or (860) 278-4090.LITCHFIELD COUNTYBarkhamsted Board of Selectmen. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Barkhamsted Town Hall, 67 Ripley Hill Road. (860) 379-8285. Cornwall Planning and Zoning Commission. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Cornwall Town Hall, 26 Pine Street. (860) 672-2709. New Milford Board of Assessment Appeals. Tuesday at 6 p.m. New Milford Town Hall, 10 Main Street. (860) 355-6020. Plymouth Economic Development Commission. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Plymouth Town Hall, 80 Main Street. (860) 585-4001. Salisbury Conservation Commission. Tuesday at 6:30 p.m. Salisbury Town Hall, 27 Main Street. (860) 435-5182. Woodbury Board of Selectmen. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Shove Building, 281 Main Street South. (203) 263-2144. MIDDLESEX COUNTYChester Economic Development Commission. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Chester Town Hall, 203 Middlesex Avenue. (860) 526-0013. Essex Water Pollution Control Authority. Monday at 7 p.m. Essex Town Hall, 29 West Avenue. (860) 767-4340. NEW HAVEN COUNTYMadison Economic Development Commission. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Madison Town Campus, 8 Campus Drive. (203) 245-5672. Woodbridge Town Plan and Zoning Commission. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Town Hall, 11 Meeting House Lane. (203) 389-3400. NEW LONDON COUNTYMontville Town Administration Subcommittee of the Town Council. Monday at 6 p.m. Montville Town Hall, 310 Norwich-New London Turnpike. (860) 848-3030, ext. 311. Stonington Zoning Board of Appeals. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Stonington Police Station, South Broad Street. (860) 535-5060. TOLLAND COUNTYAndover Board of Education. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Andover Elementary School, 35 School Road. (860) 742-7305. Tolland Town Council budget meeting. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Hicks Memorial Municipal Building, 21 Tolland Green. (860) 871-3600. Tolland Tolland Water Commission. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Hicks Memorial Municipal Building, 21 Tolland Green. (860) 871-3600. WINDHAM COUNTYAshford Board of Finance. Thursday at 7 p.m. Ashford Town Office Building, 5 Town Hall Road. (860) 487-4401. Killingly Special Town Council budget review. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Killingly Town Hall, 172 Main Street. (860) 779-5300.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); COUNTIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITIES (87%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ZONING (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); LAND USE PLANNING (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (66%); CITY LIFE (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (55%) CONNECTICUT, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); ENGLAND (55%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



167 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; EDUCATION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Amid Booming Enrollment, the Odd District Out

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH MAKER

 BODY:
AT a time when enrollment is so far above capacity that some of the state's public schools hold classes in closets, one six-town region in northwestern Connecticut has the opposite problem: Enrollment has declined so sharply that officials are considering combining grades, laying off teachers and canceling sports programs. 
 The Region 1 School district -- which has seven schools in Canaan, Cornwall, Kent, North Canaan, Salisbury and Sharon -- has the lowest enrollment of any system in the state. At the Lee H. Kellogg School in the Falls Village section of Canaan, there are seven pupils in the fourth grade, and only five children are expected for kindergarten in September. Enrollment has dropped to 101 from 150 a decade ago, and it is projected to fall to 83 by 2012. 
Over all, enrollment at the seven schools has dropped to 1,973 from 2,300 in 1997, and is expected to shrink to 1,646 in the next five years.
 ''It's surprising to hear of a district with such low enrollment, when there's a population explosion going on in many schools around Connecticut,'' said Alison Zhou, a State Education Department consultant.
 Connecticut recently received a $2.9 million grant from the federal Department of Education, under the No Child Left Behind program, to help the most crowded school systems build facilities and hire staff members to reduce class sizes.
 ''The middle school and high school population is at its highest ever in Connecticut right now,'' said Thomas Murphy, a spokesman for the State Education Department. ''It's expected to decline, but we have quite a number of schools that are filled beyond capacity.''
 New Britain High School, for example, has a capacity of 2,999 but an enrollment of 3,163. ''We've had to convert storage spaces into classrooms, and we have study hall in the cafeteria, which is not good,'' said the principal, Michael J. Foran. The school's average class size is 27, compared with the state average of 20, and many classes have 31 or more students, he said. 
 Even wealthy communities like Greenwich and Fairfield have overcrowded schools. Greenwich High School has a capacity of 2,250 but an enrollment of 2,692, and Fairfield Warde High School, with a capacity of 1,400 students, has 1,445, according to the state.
 The reason for Region 1's declining enrollment, educators agree, is that property values have doubled in the last decade, and the residential makeup is now mostly weekenders from New York who educate their children in the city. ''There are 15 houses on my street in Salisbury, and 11 of them are owned by New Yorkers,'' said Paul Sales, principal of the Salisbury Central School.
 But Region 1 is reveling in its tiny class sizes, despite concerns about economics or what happens when there are not enough students to make up a baseball team.
 ''I like that no one can steal your lunch money because we don't have a cafeteria and everyone brings their own lunch,'' said Karl Grannan, one of eight third graders at the Lee H. Kellogg School.
 ''I like how our teacher knows us so well, and we know her,'' said a classmate, Riley Simmons, also 8, as his teacher, Eileen Rogers, smiled. ''Like, we know she has a fluffy dog named Daisy, and we know where she lives, and we know what she does every weekend. Pretty much everything.''
 But Kellogg's principal, Maria Bulson, questioned whether the students were acquiring the socialization skills they would get at a larger school. ''Going from kindergarten through eighth grade with the same few kids is tough,'' she said. 
 So next year, the school will group together kindergarten through second grades, and third through fifth grades, a move that could result in eliminating several teaching positions, Ms. Bulson said.
 ''The low-enrollment situation has enormous pros and cons,'' said Patricia Chamberlain, the region's schools superintendent. ''On the one hand, you have small, intimate classes, where the children are showered with attention. It's like a family, everyone knows each other and feels very comfortable.
 ''On the other, there's economics; can we afford to keep running all of these schools with so few students in them?''
 Region 1's annual per-child education cost is about $16,000, while the state average is about $10,000. ''Our per-pupil cost is the highest in the state, and it's just going to go up as our enrollment goes down,'' said Mr. Sales, the Salisbury principal.
 The region comprises six kindergarten-to-eighth-grade schools in each town, and one regional high school in Canaan. The school in Salisbury has two buildings, elementary and intermediate. With enrollment there dropping to 312 from 404 in 1997, and projected to slide to 254 by 2012, Mr. Sales and other educators believe the intermediate building will have to be closed in two years, and all grades will be consolidated into one building. 
 ''You've got certain fixed costs in keeping these buildings running, regardless of how many students are in them,'' he said. ''It's just not cost-effective.''
 Salisbury is also grappling with the prospect of canceling sports programs as enrollment dwindles. ''We're already making exceptions and letting sixth graders join teams that are supposed to be for the older kids,'' Mr. Sales said. ''But we may soon be at the point where we just can't come up with the numbers you need for team sports.''
 Susan Kennedy, director of the No Child Left Behind program in Connecticut, said that Region 1's situation might have its drawbacks but that its strengths were enviable. ''The goal is to create smaller school environments, where teachers can really get to know the kids, and the kids want to be there because they feel loved and important,'' she said. ''Like they do in Region 1.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: CLASS ACTION -- At the Lee H. Kellogg School in Falls Village, Eileen Rogers teaches a class of eight third graders, left, and Robin Faust teaches a combined kindergarten-to-second-grade reading class, below. Educators believe that in two years the Salisbury Center School will have to close its intermediate school building, below, and move all grades to its elementary school building. (Photographs by M. J. Fiedler for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); REAL ESTATE (67%); GRANTS & GIFTS (66%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (64%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (60%); SPORTS (57%); SPORTS & RECREATION (57%) Education and Schools; Enrollment; Teachers and School Employees; Layoffs and Job Reductions

PERSON: Elizabeth Maker

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



168 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1682 words

HEADLINE: North Koreans Arm Ethiopians As U.S. Assents

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON and MARK MAZZETTI

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 7 

 BODY:
Three months after the United States successfully pressed the United Nations to impose strict sanctions on North Korea because of the country's nuclear test, Bush administration officials allowed Ethiopia to complete a secret arms purchase from the North, in what appears to be a violation of the restrictions, according to senior American officials. 
 The United States allowed the arms delivery to go through in January in part because Ethiopia was in the midst of a military offensive against Islamic militias inside Somalia, a campaign that aided the American policy of combating religious extremists in the Horn of Africa.
American officials said that they were still encouraging Ethiopia to wean itself from its longstanding reliance on North Korea for cheap Soviet-era military equipment to supply its armed forces and that Ethiopian officials appeared receptive. But the arms deal is an example of the compromises that result from the clash of two foreign policy absolutes: the Bush administration's commitment to fighting Islamic radicalism and its effort to starve the North Korean government of money it could use to build up its nuclear weapons program. 
 Since the Sept. 11 attacks, as the administration has made counterterrorism its top foreign policy concern, the White House has sometimes shown a willingness to tolerate misconduct by allies that it might otherwise criticize, like human rights violations in Central Asia and antidemocratic crackdowns in a number of Arab nations. 
 It is also not the first time that the Bush administration has made an exception for allies in their dealings with North Korea. In 2002, Spain intercepted a ship carrying Scud missiles from North Korea to Yemen. At the time, Yemen was working with the United States to hunt members of Al Qaeda operating within its borders, and after its government protested, the United States asked that the freighter be released. Yemen said at the time that it was the last shipment from an earlier missile purchase and would not be repeated. 
 American officials from a number of agencies described details of the Ethiopian episode on the condition of anonymity because they were discussing internal Bush administration deliberations.
 Several officials said they first learned that Ethiopia planned to receive a delivery of military cargo from North Korea when the country's government alerted the American Embassy in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia's capital, after the adoption on Oct. 14 of the United Nations Security Council measure imposing sanctions. 
 ''The Ethiopians came back to us and said, 'Look, we know we need to transition to different customers, but we just can't do that overnight,' '' said one American official, who added that the issue had been handled properly. ''They pledged to work with us at the most senior levels.''
 American intelligence agencies reported in late January that an Ethiopian cargo ship that was probably carrying tank parts and other military equipment had left a North Korean port. 
 The value of the shipment is unclear, but Ethiopia purchased $20 million worth of arms from North Korea in 2001, according to American estimates, a pattern that officials said had continued. The United States gives Ethiopia millions of dollars of foreign aid and some nonlethal military equipment. 
 After a brief debate in Washington, the decision was made not to block the arms deal and to press Ethiopia not to make future purchases. 
 John R. Bolton, who helped to push the resolution imposing sanctions on North Korea through the Security Council in October, before stepping down as United Nations ambassador, said that the Ethiopians had long known that Washington was concerned about their arms purchases from North Korea and that the Bush administration should not have tolerated the January shipment. 
 ''To make it clear to everyone how strongly we feel on this issue we should have gone to the Ethiopians and said they should send it back,'' said Mr. Bolton, who added that he had been unaware of the deal before being contacted for this article. ''I know they have been helpful in Somalia, but there is a nuclear weapons program in North Korea that is unhelpful for everybody worldwide. 
 ''Never underestimate the strength of 'clientitis' at the State Department,'' said Mr. Bolton, using Washington jargon for a situation in which State Department officials are deemed to be overly sympathetic to the countries they conduct diplomacy with. 
 Sean McCormack, the State Department spokesman, declined to comment on the specifics of the arms shipment but said the United States was ''deeply committed to upholding and enforcing U.N. Security Council resolutions.'' Repeated efforts to contact the Ethiopian Embassy were unsuccessful. 
 In other cases, the United States has been strict in enforcing the Security Council resolution. For instance, late last year, American intelligence agencies tracked a North Korean freighter suspected of carrying illicit weapons and pressed several nations to refuse to allow the ship to dock. Myanmar, formerly Burma, allowed it to anchor and insisted that there was no violation. 
 North Korea conducted its first nuclear test on Oct. 9, and the Security Council resolution, adopted less than a week later, was hailed by President Bush as ''swift and tough,'' and a ''clear message to the leader of North Korea regarding his weapons programs.''
 Among the biggest sticking points during the negotiations over the resolution were Chinese and Russian objections to language requiring inspections of ships leaving North Korea. The United States repeatedly pressed China and Russia to agree to the inspections, saying they were essential to enforcing the resolution's embargo on North Korea's sale of dangerous weapons, like ballistic missiles. In addition to the ban on the purchase of weapons from North Korea, the resolution also called for a ban on the sale of luxury goods to it and the freezing of its financial assets in banks worldwide.
 The measure had special relevance for several African states that have long purchased low-cost military equipment from North Korea. Ethiopia has an arsenal of T-55 tanks that it acquired years ago from the Soviet Union and Eastern European nations. For years, it has turned to North Korea for tank parts and other equipment to keep its military running. 
 The Ethiopians bought the equipment at a bargain price; the North Koreans received some badly needed cash. In 2005, the Bush administration told Ethiopia and other African nations that it wanted them to phase out their purchases from North Korea. But the Security Council resolution put an international imprimatur on the earlier American request, and the administration sought to reinforce the message. 
 ''They really are one of the larger conventional arms purchasers from North Korea, and we're pressing them hard and saying, 'Let's get you out of that business,' '' said the American official. 
 Another American official, who is involved in Africa policy, said: ''These are cash on the barrel transactions. The Ethiopians know that they can get the best deal in Pyongyang,'' a reference to North Korea's capital.
 In late January, the Central Intelligence Agency reported that an Ethiopian-flagged vessel had left a North Korean port and that its cargo probably included ''tank parts,'' among other military equipment. 
 American officials said that the ship, the Tekeze, a modern vessel bought from a company in Montenegro and named after an Ethiopian river, unloaded its cargo in Djibouti, a former French colony where the United States has based Special Operations troops and other military forces. From there, the cargo was transported overland to Ethiopia. 
 The Security Council resolution's list of prohibited items included spare parts. Because the cargo was never inspected, some administration officials say the United States cannot say for certain that the shipment violated the resolution.
 It is not clear if the United States ever reported the arms shipment to the Security Council. But because the intelligence reports indicated that the cargo was likely to have included tank parts, some Pentagon officials described the shipment as an unambiguous Security Council violation.
 American officials said the Ethiopians acknowledged that the ship was en route and said that they needed the equipment to sustain their Soviet-era military. Ethiopia has a longstanding border dispute with Eritrea, but of more concern to Washington, Ethiopia was also focused on neighboring Somalia, where Islamic forces that had taken over Mogadishu, Somalia's capital, six months earlier and were attacking Baidoa, the seat of a relatively powerless transitional government that was formed with the support of the United Nations. 
 The timing of the shipment was extremely awkward, as the Ethiopian military was preoccupied with Somalia and also quietly cooperating with the United States. Ethiopia began an offensive in Somalia to drive back the Islamic forces and install the transitional government in Mogadishu late last year. The United States was providing it with detailed intelligence about the locations of the Islamic forces and was positioning Navy ships off Somalia's coast to capture fighters trying to escape the battlefield by sea.
 On Jan. 7, American AC-130 gunships launched two strikes on terrorist targets from an airstrip inside Ethiopia, though it did not appear that the casualties included any of the few top operatives of Al Qaeda American officials suspected were hiding in Somalia. 
 After some internal debate, the Bush administration decided not to make an issue of the cargo ship. 
 American officials insist that they are keeping up the pressure on Ethiopia. While Ethiopia has not provided an ironclad assurance that it will accept no more arms shipments from North Korea, it has told the United States that it will look for other weapons suppliers.
 ''There was a lot going on at that particular moment in time,'' said the senior American official. ''They seem to have the readiness to do the right thing.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ethiopian tanks in Somalia. Ethiopia bought much of its military equipment from the former Soviet Union and relies on North Korean parts. (Photo by Michael Kamber for The New York Times)(pg. 14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); ARMS TRADE (91%); RELIGION (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); AL-QAEDA (75%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); MISCONDUCT (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%) Arms Sales Abroad; United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Atomic Weapons; Terrorism; Islam; Armament, Defense and Military Forces; Foreign Aid

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

PERSON: Michael R Gordon; Mark Mazzetti; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: ADIS ABEBA, ETHIOPIA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); ETHIOPIA (94%); YEMEN (93%); SOMALIA (93%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%) Ethiopia; North Korea; Somalia; Ethiopia

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



169 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1490 words

HEADLINE: HOUSING SLUMP PINCHES STATES IN POCKETBOOK

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH; Terry Aguayo contributed reporting from Miami, and David Leonhardt from New York.

DATELINE: MIAMI, April 7 

 BODY:
State tax revenues around the country are growing far more slowly this year and in some cases falling below projections, a result of the housing market slowdown that has curbed voracious spending on real estate, building materials, furniture and other items.
 Nowhere is the downturn more apparent than in Florida, where tax revenue is projected to drop this year for the first time since the energy crisis of the 1970s.
But other states, especially those where housing prices soared in recent years, are also seeing their collections slow, especially in the sales and real estate transfer tax categories. While the economy remains generally strong and it is too early to predict whether the housing slump will have long-term effects, some states will have to adjust their wish lists. 
 For example, New Jersey could face a $2.5 billion shortfall by mid-2008, Gov. Jon S. Corzine has said, and may lease its turnpike or its lottery to a private company to raise money. In California, where income tax receipts in January were $1 billion less than forecast, a nonpartisan legislative analyst has urged budget cuts and warned that the state could have about $2 billion less in revenue this year and next than Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger has projected. 
 ''It's the year of the housing hangover,'' said Sean M. Snaith, director of the Institute for Economic Competitiveness at the University of Central Florida.
 New home sales nationally fell in February to the lowest rate in seven years, and homeowners who tapped into plentiful home equity and spent extravagantly during the real estate boom have started to cut back.
 Those events not only threaten revenue streams for things like building materials and labor, but also affect spending on big-ticket items like cars and furniture, which many homeowners financed with home equity lines of credit.
 Chris McCarty, survey research director at the Bureau of Economic and Business Research at the University of Florida, said it would be foolish to ''underestimate the effect that the inability to extract equity from homes is going to have.''
 In one hint of how much Floridians were relying on property wealth during the real estate boom, 16 percent of new car purchases here were being made with home equity loans in 2006, compared with 7 percent nationally, according to CNW Marketing Research, an automotive research firm in Bandon, Ore. In California, the percentage was even higher -- about 30 percent, said Art Spinella, the firm's president.
 During the last few years, families in much of the country have relied on the cash from mortgage refinancing, made possible by rising house values, low interest rates and a bevy of creative new loans, to make up for stagnant wages. From 2001 to 2005, even as the economy was growing at a healthy clip over all, the pay of most workers failed to keep pace with inflation. Now the housing slowdown is making it more difficult to take equity out of a house, and an improved job market is finally causing wages to rise.
 Still, Mr. McCarty said consumer confidence in Florida dropped markedly last month, especially willingness to buy expensive items.
 Some budget watchers say that Florida, whose housing boom was prolonged and intensified by the rebuilding frenzy after a series of hurricanes, could be a warning beacon for other states anticipating housing-related economic woes. Last spring, 9 of the 20 metropolitan areas that saw the sharpest home price appreciation were in Florida, according to the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight. Many areas of the state now have plummeting home values. 
 Arizona, California, Florida and Nevada, the chief beneficiaries of the housing rush, are also expected to suffer disproportionately from the slump. From late 2005 to late 2006, existing home sales fell by 21 percent in California, 27 percent in Arizona, 31 percent in Florida and 36 percent in Nevada, the steepest drop in the nation.
 Maryland's real estate transfer tax revenue has tumbled by 22 percent this fiscal year, suggesting that fewer homes are being sold, prices have fallen or both. Connecticut's real estate transfer tax revenue, which state budget analysts predicted would fall by 3.6 percent, is down by 13.3 percent so far.
 Some states have defied the trend, chiefly among them New York, where the housing market has been bolstered by sales in Manhattan. The prices and number of apartments selling in Manhattan rose in the first three months of this year, according to data released last week by several of New York City's largest real estate brokerages.
 Healthy reserves built up over the last few years and stable economic conditions outside the housing sector could cushion the blow for many states, at least for now. 
 ''The tendency is for people to say, 'Wow, things look pretty good, except for housing,' '' said Richard Nathan, co-director of the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government in Albany. ''But that is a very big exception, because it has a large impact on people's perceptions of what they feel their asset capability is.'' 
 Some economists fear the situation will worsen as credit standards tighten and more recipients of subprime loans -- typically people with bad credit, who obtained such loans easily during the housing boom -- default on their payments. 
 But others expect the revenue lag to last two years at most, because with the exception of industrial Midwestern states like Michigan and Ohio, the economy remains relatively healthy. 
 ''Real estate is going to be a drag on the rest of the economy,'' said Ryan Ratcliff, an economist for the Anderson Forecast at the University of California, Los Angeles, referring to California's situation. ''But previous recessions have always had construction plus something else combining to create job loss. Without a second source of weakness, we're predicting sluggishness, but not a recession.''
 Alan Greenspan, the former Federal Reserve chairman who has expressed worries about the housing market, has said he believes there is a one-in-three chance the economy will slip into recession in 2007. 
 Even without a recession, a growing national movement to reduce local property taxes could leave local governments short of the amount they need to provide services at a time when home values are falling, some economists said. 
 Property tax relief is the Florida Legislature's top priority this spring. And a new package of bills in New Jersey, if approved, would give a tax credit of up to 20 percent to homeowners and cap annual local tax increases at 4 percent -- despite the predicted deficit. 
 ''People are reacting to the large increases in assessments that took place over the past few years and looking to cut property taxes,'' wrote Iris J. Lav, deputy director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal research and advocacy organization. ''If assessments stagnate or decline, however, the cuts could seriously overreach.''
 Gov. Charlie Crist of Florida is among officials across the country who dismiss that notion, saying that reducing property taxes would fatten consumers' wallets and dissuade them from leaving the state.
 Census data show that fewer people than usual moved into Florida last year. And an abrupt halt in the growth of public school enrollment this year suggests that families are leaving. Despite dropping prices, communities like Naples, Miami and Sarasota still have some of the most overvalued real estate in the nation, according to Global Insight, a research firm in Waltham, Mass. 
 ''People are packing up the equity and moving to North Carolina and Tennessee,'' Mr. Snaith said.
 Georganna Meyer, chief economist for the Arizona Department of Revenue, said both sales and income tax receipts had slowed there, in part because so many people who jumped into the real estate business during the boom are now earning less. ''I've heard stories about real estate broker income going up 50 percent year after year,'' she said. ''So a large part of why the income tax is not what it used to be is related to the real estate market tightening, no doubt.''
 It is still too early to know how most states' fiscal years will end -- this month's income tax filings will be crucial. But Florida, which does not have an income tax, has $303 million less than anticipated for its $70 billion budget, thanks to slowing sales tax and real estate transfer tax collections. Florida also expects to have $653 million less than anticipated in 2007-08, but Amy Baker, coordinator of the Office of Economic and Demographic Research at the State Legislature, said that was not a sign of long-term trouble.
 ''We saw double-digit price appreciation for several years in a row, so the atmosphere here was very charged,'' Ms. Baker said, adding that the state's housing market should bottom out by summer and pick up again by January. 
 ''We are just returning to normal levels of growth,'' she said.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 11, 2007

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page article on Sunday about the housing slump's effect on state tax revenues misstated the status of a tax credit and local tax cap in New Jersey in some copies. The legislation has been signed into law, it is not awaiting approval.

GRAPHIC: Photos: For-sale signs in a Miami neighborhood of million-dollar houses. Prices are dropping, but in some areas, real estate remains overvalued. (Photo by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times)
 Gov. Charlie Crist of Florida, speaking in January, anticipated cuts in spending and proposed property tax relief for state residents. (Photo by Colin Hackley/Tampa Tribune, via Associated Press)(pg. 23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (89%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (86%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); BUDGETS (78%); FUNDRAISING (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); HOME EQUITY CREDIT LINES (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (68%); BUDGET CUTS (66%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (63%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (60%) Housing; Credit; Mortgages; States (US); Taxation; Housing; Property Taxes; Home Equity Loans

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CENTRAL FLORIDA (54%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (59%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (59%); CHARLIE CRIST (56%) Abby Goodnough

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (91%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); OREGON, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) California; Arizona ; Nevada; New Jersey; Florida

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



170 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; SIX KILLERS: HEART DISEASE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5055 words

HEADLINE: Lessons of Heart Disease, Learned and Ignored

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
Keith Orr thought he would surprise his doctor when he came for a checkup. 
 His doctor had told him to have a weight-loss operation to reduce the amount of food his stomach could hold, worried because Mr. Orr, at 6 feet 2 inches, weighed 278 pounds. He also had a blood sugar level so high he was on the verge of diabetes and a strong family history of early death from heart attacks. And Mr. Orr, who is 44, had already had a heart attack in 1998 when he was 35.
But Mr. Orr had a secret plan. He had been quietly dieting and exercising for four months and lost 45 pounds. He envisioned himself proudly telling his doctor what he had done, sure his tests would show a huge drop in his blood sugar and cholesterol levels. He planned to confess that he had also stopped taking all of his prescription drugs for heart disease.
 After all, he reasoned, with his improved diet and exercise, he no longer needed the drugs. And, anyway, he had never taken his medications regularly, so stopping altogether would not make much difference, he decided. 
 But the surprise was not what Mr. Orr had anticipated. On Feb. 6, one week before the appointment with his doctor, Mr. Orr was working out at a gym near his home in Boston when he felt a tightness in his chest. It was the start of a massive heart attack, with the sort of blockage in an artery that doctors call the widow-maker. 
 He survived, miraculously, with little or no damage to his heart. But his story illustrates the reasons that heart disease still kills more Americans than any other disease, as it has for nearly a century. 
 Medical research has revealed enough about the causes and prevention of heart attacks that they could be nearly eliminated. Yet nearly 16 million Americans are living with coronary heart disease, and nearly half a million die from it each year. 
 It's not that prevention doesn't work, and it's not that once someone has a heart attack there is little to be done. In fact, said Dr. Elizabeth Nabel, director of the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute at the National Institutes of Health, age-adjusted death rates for heart disease dropped precipitously in the past few decades, and prevention and better treatment are major reasons why. 
 But the concern, Dr. Nabel and others say, is that much more could be done. In many ways, scientists' hard-won and increasingly detailed understanding of what causes heart disease and what to do for it often goes unknown or ignored.
 Studies reveal, for example, that people have only about an hour to get their arteries open during a heart attack if they are to avoid permanent heart damage. Yet, recent surveys find, fewer than 10 percent get to a hospital that fast, sometimes because they are reluctant to acknowledge what is happening. And most who reach the hospital quickly do not receive the optimal treatment -- many American hospitals are not fully equipped to provide it but are reluctant to give up heart patients because they are so profitable.
 And new studies reveal that even though drugs can protect people who already had a heart attack from having another, many patients get the wrong doses and most, Mr. Orr included, stop taking the drugs in a matter of months. They should take the drugs for the rest of their lives.
 ''We've done pretty well,'' Dr. Nabel said. ''But we could be doing much better. I've heard some people refer to it as the rule of halves. Half the people who need to be treated are treated and half who are treated are adequately treated.''
 The result, heart researchers say, is a huge disconnect between what is possible and what is actually happening.Crucial Miscalculations
 Keith Orr's story has themes that resonate with every cardiologist. He did many things right, but also made some crucial miscalculations that were so common that nearly every patient makes them, cardiologists say. But not everyone comes out as well.
 Mr. Orr anticipated a pleasant day on Feb. 6, starting with a workout at his gym, then lunch with a friend before he went to work at Smith & Wollensky, a steakhouse where he is a manager. 
 He arrived at the gym around noon and lifted weights, concentrating on the pectoral muscles of his chest. Then he moved on to an elliptical cross-trainer for cardiovascular exercise. 
 After half an hour on the elliptical, Mr. Orr felt a tightness in his chest. ''I attributed it to the weight training,'' he said, but stopped exercising, showered, dressed and walked to his car.
 ''I felt really bad, out of sorts,'' he said. The pressure in his chest would ease off and then intensify, and now he was sweating profusely and was nauseated. When he arrived at the restaurant, he told his friend Darrin Friedman that he would have to beg off from lunch. ''I feel like hell,'' he told Mr. Friedman. 
 He went home and lay on his bed.
 ''I knew at that point that it was not a pulled muscle,'' Mr. Orr said. ''It's a completely different feeling of pressure and discomfort. You feel as though something is genuinely wrong.''
 It was 3:15. And the pain was no longer intermittent. It was constant.
 Mr. Orr called Mr. Friedman and asked him to drive him to an emergency room. A few minutes later, the two set off for Brigham and Women's Hospital, about a 10-minute drive. 
 ''Keith was hunched over and he didn't put his seat belt on,'' Mr. Friedman said. ''I kept asking him, 'Is it getting better or getting worse or staying the same?' For the first 10 minutes he said, 'It's about the same.' Then, when we were a block or so away, he said: 'I'm not doing well. I think it's getting worse.' ''
 When they arrived at the hospital's emergency department, Mr. Friedman explained that his friend was having chest pains. Immediately, Mr. Orr was wheeled off for an electrocardiogram, showing his heart's electrical signals. It was ominous, including one pattern called the tombstone T wave because patients who had it died in the days before there were aggressive treatments to open arteries.
 The next thing Mr. Orr knew, he was being rushed to the cardiac catheterization laboratory for a procedure to open his artery.
 ''They said: 'We're going now. We're going now,' '' Mr. Orr recalled. ''That really scared me. Someone kept yelling: 'Do you have his labs? Do you have his labs?' Someone else said, 'We'll transfer them later.' ''
 The electrocardiogram was at 3:45 p.m., roughly 30 minutes after his symptoms changed from intermittent to constant and 5 minutes after he got to the hospital. 
 At 3:52 p.m., Dr. Ashvin Pande, a cardiology fellow, was chatting in the hallway when he was called to the catheterization lab. 
 ''Big M.I. coming in,'' a nurse told Dr. Pande, using the abbreviation for myocardial infarction, or heart attack. At the time, the room was occupied -- a patient was lying on the table for an elective procedure. He was quickly wheeled out and Mr. Orr was wheeled in. It was 3:56 p.m.
 Within minutes, Dr. James M. Kirshenbaum, director of acute interventional cardiology, assisted by Dr. Pande, threaded a thin tube, like a long and narrow straw, from an artery in Mr. Orr's groin to his heart. They injected a dye to make Mr. Orr's arteries visible to an X-ray and they saw the problem -- a huge clot in his heart's left anterior descending artery, blocking blood flow to most of his heart. 
 The quickest option was to open that artery with a balloon and keep it open with a stent, a tiny mesh cage, if possible. 
 It worked -- the balloon shattered the clot and pushed the debris against the artery wall and the stent held the artery open. Then a different problem arose. When the large clot was pushed aside, the debris was shoved against the opening of a small artery that branched from the larger one, much as a snowplow clearing a street can block a driveway. 
 ''We made a calculated decision that it would be worth sacrificing the branch to secure the main vessel,'' Dr. Pande said. But, fortunately, they were able to insert another balloon through the stent and into the small artery, opening it too.
 At 4:43, the procedure was over and Mr. Orr was wheeled to the coronary intensive care unit. He had been awake but sedated and experienced what he said was the amazing feeling of having his artery opened. ''As soon as the balloon goes in, all the pain disappears,'' he said. ''You know immediately.''
 The cardiologists who saved his life walked out of the room, grinning and exhilarated. 
 ''This adrenaline rush is why people like me go into cardiology,'' Dr. Pande said.The First Call: An Ambulance
 Mr. Orr was incredibly lucky, said Dr. Elliott Antman, director of the coronary care unit at Brigham and Women's Hospital. He ended up with little or no damage to his heart, even though he teetered between lifesaving decisions and critical miscalculations in his moments of crisis.
 The first lifesaving decision was to go to a hospital soon after his chest pain began. But the miscalculation was to call his friend for a ride. He should have called an ambulance.
 Had his friend gotten caught in traffic, Mr. Orr might have been dead or sustained serious injury to his heart. He might have had to go to a rehabilitation center and learn special tactics for conserving energy, like sliding a coffeepot along a counter instead of lifting it. 
 What few patients realize, Dr. Antman said, is that a serious heart attack is as much of an emergency as being shot. 
 ''We deal with it as if it is a gunshot wound to the heart,'' Dr. Antman said.
 Cardiologists call it the golden hour, that window of time when they have a chance to save most of the heart muscle when an artery is blocked.
 But that urgency, cardiologists say, has been one of the most difficult messages to get across, in part because people often deny or fail to appreciate the symptoms of a heart attack. The popular image of a heart attack is all wrong.
 It's the Hollywood heart attack, said Dr. Eric Peterson, a cardiologist and heart disease researcher at Duke University. 
 ''That's the man clutching his chest, grimacing in pain and going down,'' Dr. Peterson said. ''That's what people imagine a heart attack is like. What they don't imagine is that it's not so much pain as pressure, a feeling of heaviness, shortness of breath.'' 
 Most patients describe something like Mr. Orr's symptoms -- discomfort in the chest that may, or may not, radiate into the arms or neck, the back, the jaw, or the stomach. Many also have nausea or shortness of breath. Or they break out in a cold sweat, or have a feeling of anxiety or impending doom, or have blue lips or hands or feet, or feel a sudden exhaustion.
 But symptoms often are less distinctive in elderly patients, especially women. Their only sign may be a sudden feeling of exhaustion just walking across a room. Some say they broke out in a sweat. Afterward, they may recall a feeling of pressure in their chest or pain radiating from their chest but at the time, they say, they paid little attention.
 Patients with diabetes might have no obvious symptoms at all other than sudden, extreme fatigue. It's not clear why diabetics often have these so-called silent heart attacks -- one hypothesis attributes it to damage diabetes can cause to nerves that carry pain signals.
 ''I say to patients, 'Be alert to the possibility that you may be short of breath,' '' Dr. Antman said. ''Every day you walk down your driveway to go to your mailbox. If you discover one day that you can only walk halfway there, you are so fatigued that you can't walk another foot, I want to hear about that. You might be having a heart attack.''
 Other times, said Dr. George Sopko, a cardiologist at the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, symptoms like pressure in the chest come and go. That is because a blood clot blocking an artery is breaking up a bit, reforming, breaking and reforming. It was what happened to Mr. Orr when he was at the gym and meeting his friend afterward.
 ''It's a pre-heart attack,'' Dr. Sopko said. A blood vessel is on its way to being completely blocked. ''You need to call 911.'' 
 But most people -- often hoping it is not a heart attack, wondering if their symptoms will fade, not wanting to be alarmist -- hesitate far too long before calling for help.
 ''The single biggest delay is from the onset of symptoms and calling 911,'' said Dr. Bernard Gersh, a cardiologist at the Mayo Clinic. ''The average time is 111 minutes, and it hasn't changed in 10 years.'' 'Time Is Muscle'
 At least half of all patients never call an ambulance. Instead, in the throes of a heart attack, they drive themselves to the emergency room or are driven there by a friend or family member. Or they take a taxi. Or they walk. 
 Patients often say they were embarrassed by the thought of an ambulance arriving at their door. 
 ''Calling 911 seems like such a project,'' Mr. Orr said. ''I reserve it for car accidents and exploding appliances. I feel like if I can walk and talk and breathe I should just get here.''
 It is an understandable response, but one that can be fatal, cardiologists say.
 ''If you come to the hospital unannounced or if you drive yourself there, you're burning time,'' Dr. Antman said. ''And time is muscle,'' he added, meaning that heart muscle is dying as the minutes tick away.
 There may be false alarms, Dr. Sopko said.
 ''But it is better to be checked out and find out it's not a problem than to have a problem and not have the therapy,'' he said.
 Calling an ambulance promptly is only part of the issue, heart researchers say. There also is the question of how, or even whether, the patient gets either of two types of treatment to open the blocked arteries, known as reperfusion therapy. 
 One is to open arteries with a clot-dissolving drug like tPA, for tissue plasminogen activator. 
 ''These have been breakthrough therapies,'' said Dr. Joseph P. Ornato, a cardiologist and emergency medicine specialist who is medical director for the City of Richmond, Va. ''But the hooker is that even the best of the clot buster drugs typically only open up 60 to 70 percent of blocked arteries -- nowhere close to 100 percent.'' 
 The drugs also make patients vulnerable to bleeding, Dr. Ornato said.
 One in 200 patients bleeds into the brain, having a stroke from the treatment meant to save the heart. 
 The other way is with angioplasty, the procedure Mr. Orr got. Cardiologists say it is the preferred method under ideal circumstances.
 Stents have recently been questioned for those who are just having symptoms like shortness of breath. In those cases, drugs often work as well as stents. But during a heart attack or in the early hours afterward, stents are the best way to open arteries and prevent damage. That, though, requires a cardiac catheterization laboratory, practiced doctors and staff on call 24 hours a day. The result is that few get this treatment.
 ''We now are seeing really phenomenal results in experienced hands,'' Dr. Ornato said. ''We can open 95 to 96 percent of arteries, and bleeding in the brain is virtually unheard of. It's a safer route if it is done by very experienced people and if it is done promptly. Those are big ifs.''
 The ifs were not a problem for Mr. Orr. His decision to go to Brigham and Women's Hospital proved exactly right. But he did not know that when he chose the hospital -- he chose it because his doctor was affiliated with Brigham.A Need for More Angioplasty
 Currently, 30 percent of patients who are candidates for reperfusion do not receive it, and of those who do, only 18 percent are treated with angioplasty, said Dr. Alice Jacobs, director of the cardiac catheterization laboratory at Boston University School of Medicine and a past president of the American Heart Association. Of the nation's 5,000 acute care hospitals, Dr. Jacobs said, only 1,200 provide angioplasty.
 Most hospitals, she said, cannot offer angioplasty because they do not have enough patients for a team of doctors to maintain their skills. An obvious solution would be to make heart attack care more like trauma care -- sending patients to the nearest hospital that can provide angioplasty as quickly as possible. But that is not always easy, Dr. Jacobs said, because hospitals do not want to lose cardiac patients.
 A major reason, she said, is financial. Hospitals are reimbursed by Medicare according an index that measures the acuity of medical conditions they treat. 
 ''If your cardiac patients are transferred, your acuity index goes down, which lowers overall Medicare reimbursement for other problems like pneumonia and renal disease,'' Dr. Jacobs said.
 It is also difficult for patients who live in rural areas, where community hospitals are too small to offer angioplasty and larger hospitals that do offer it are hours away. Minnesota is experimenting with a program using helicopters to transport patients quickly. But for most rural patients elsewhere, angioplasty is almost an impossibility.
 Dr. Antman suggests that heart disease patients ask their doctor if there is a hospital nearby that does angioplasty around the clock. If so, they might want to discuss with their doctor whether to ask that an ambulance take them there if they are having a heart attack.
 It is the sort of advice that makes cardiologists nervous -- they do not want to encourage patients to dictate treatment. But, Dr. Antman said, if it is feasible to get to an angioplasty-providing hospital within an hour, ''in most cases that would be preferable.''Getting the Proper Therapy
 Opening an artery is only the start of treatment. The next part is at least as problematic: Patients have to get the right drugs, in the right doses, and have to take them for the rest of their lives.
 ''Care is getting a lot better,'' Dr. Peterson said. ''But the only caveat is that they are only really looking at, Did you get therapy? No one is looking too closely at, Did you do it right?'' 
 For example, he said, a recent study found that heart attack patients were getting blood-thinning prescription drugs to prevent clots, as they should, but up to 40 percent were getting the wrong dose, usually one too high.
 And even if every prescription were exactly right, as many as half of all patients do just what Mr. Orr did after his first heart attack. They stop taking many or all of their drugs.
 Sometimes it is a matter of communication.
 ''The information did not get to the primary doctor and the primary doctor did not know to renew the prescription,'' Dr. Peterson said. ''When we talk to patients, they say: 'No one communicated to me the importance of being on the medications long term. I thought I would only need them for three months, I thought it would be like an antibiotic. I thought they put in a stent so why do I need a drug?' '' 
 But there may be more to it than ignorance. There also is the image those pills convey of a sick person.
 Mr. Orr said he did not like to think of himself as someone who had to take a fistful of pills every day. Even the recommended daily aspirin seemed superfluous, he thought. 
 ''I think I sort of pooh-poohed the notion that one tablet of aspirin each day would do anything,'' Mr. Orr said.
 What it does is make blood less likely to clot. In Mr. Orr's case, Dr. Antman said, it is likely that when Mr. Orr was exercising on the cross-trainer, an area of plaque ruptured. Then a clot began to form in the area, eventually blocking the artery.
 The problem was not exercise, which is good for people with heart disease, but Mr. Orr's decision not to take his medications, Dr. Antman said. If he had been taking aspirin that clot would have had more difficulty forming and growing. 
 Dr. Antman has a message for patients: With a disease as serious as heart disease, those who take responsibility are often the ones who survive.
 Having a heart attack, even if it turns out well, as his did, is a life-altering experience, Mr. Orr said. 
 His first heart attack, Mr. Orr said, ''came out of the blue.'' When he was discharged from the hospital, he was terrified that it would happen again when he was alone and unable to call for help. ''I had a really hard time with it,'' he said. ''I only stayed in my own house for one night and then I moved to a friend's house for two weeks.''
 Now Mr. Orr plans to be serious about taking his medication and getting back to his diet and exercise program. He will call an ambulance if he ever has symptoms again. Still, he hates to think of himself as a patient. ''I'm a little freaked out that I will have to take medication for the foreseeable eternity,'' Mr. Orr said. 
 But the day after he got home from the hospital, he thought about what had happened. 
 ''The gravity of the situation just sort of clicked,'' Mr. Orr said. ''I started to cry.'' WHAT I WISH I'D KNOWNNaomi Atrubin, a Survivor of Two Heart Attacks, Shares the Lessons She Has Learned
 Naomi Atrubin's life might have been different. She would know what was happening that Christmas Eve when she had her first heart attack.
 She would not have blamed spicy mustard for that heavy feeling in her chest. She would have taken an ambulance. She would have kept better track of her blood pressure and cholesterol.
 At 76, Ms. Atrubin gets tired but also stays active with duplicate bridge and book clubs. She had chest pains last summer. But she also is grateful that she lived to tell her story. She wishes everyone could hear its lessons.1992FIRST HEART ATTACKDEC. 24, 11 A.M., AGE 62CHARGES SUBMITTED TO INSURANCE, IN 2007 DOLLARS $15,871.52
 Feeling tired for 11 days. A cardiologist she called that morning had gone home for Christmas. Did not want to bother him.
 At lunch with her daughter, ''I started to feel much worse. I had no pains, more of a weakness, and I felt dizzy.'' Lay down on a bench. ''I said, 'It's just the drink, that's all it is.'''
 Four hours later, at a movie, Ms. Atrubin felt nauseous.
 Leaving restroom, she thought, ''If I don't lie down I'm going to fall down.'' Daughter saw her lying on theater floor, called 911.
 At the hospital, her arteries are opened with a clot-dissolving drug, streptokinase.
 Hospitalization from Dec. 24-Dec. 30, 1992. Two days in intensive care, two in intermediate care. Treatment includes: routine blood tests, electrocardiograms, streptokinase and discharge medications, including two to lower blood pressure and aspirin.1997SECOND HEART ATTACKOCT. 29, AGE 67CHARGES SUBMITTED TO INSURANCE, IN 2007 DOLLARS $43,747.66
 Driving to a movie, had mild chest pains and blamed it on spicy mustard. Walked three blocks to theater. Pains worse. Told friend she thought she was having a heart attack. Ms. Atrubin rejected an ambulance. Friend drove her to emergency room. ''I am fairly poor and the first time I had a heart attack the ambulance cost me $600.''
 So weak in car, could not fasten seat belt. At hospital, her arteries are propped open with two stents.
 Hospitalization from Oct. 29-Nov. 4. Two days in intensive care, four in intermediate care. Treatments include: stress tests, cardiac catheterization with two stents, electrocardiograms, blood tests to look for proteins from damaged heart muscle and medications, including an anti-clotting drug.
 Nov. 6 1997-Dec 10, 1998. Outpatient treatment includes: rehabilitation, blood tests, stress tests and physician visits.2006HEART SYMPTOMSLATE JULY, AGE 75CHARGES SUBMITTED TO INSURANCE, IN 2007 DOLLARS $7,159.94
 Ms. Atrubin woke with mild chest pain. Waited a day to call doctor, not wanting to bother him on a Sunday. Doctor sent her to a cardiologist. Tests, including stress echocardiogram and nuclear stress tests, show abnormalities. Angiogram reveals blockage in an artery branch. She declined more stents because her pain was not that bad.2007CURRENT STATUS, AGE 76TOTAL SUBMITTED SO FAR, IN 2007 DOLLARS $66,737.27
 At age 76, Ms. Atrubin gets tired but does not know if it is her heart or insomnia. ''After my heart attacks, I felt like I was cured. I thought I could go ahead and do everything. I don't feel like that now,'' she says. She goes to a gym and walks on a treadmill. And if she had that weak feeling or chest pains again? ''I would like to think I would run like hell to an emergency room. But how tired do I have to feel? I don't really want to be a hypochondriac.''
 WHAT YOU SHOULD KNOWBlood Pressure, Cholesterol and Smoking: Controlling the Risk Factors Can Provide Crucial Aid in Prevention
 Dr. Elizabeth Nabel, a practicing cardiologist and researcher studying the genesis of plaque in coronary arteries, became director of the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute on Feb. 1, 2005. A firm believer in prevention, she exercises vigorously nearly every day and can recite her blood pressure, blood cholesterol and body mass index. She thinks everyone should know five things about heart disease: A KILLER -- Heart disease is the leading killer, killing one in four women and one in four men.PREVENTION -- The overwhelming majority of heart disease could be prevented by controlling blood pressure, cholesterol and cigarette smoking. About 85 percent of people who had fatal heart attacks had at least one of these risk factors.
 Men 45 and older and women over age 65 should take an aspirin every day to prevent heart attacks and strokes. Those at high risk should take up to 325 mg daily; all other men and women over 65 but at lower risk should consider 81 mg a day or 100 mg every other day. Consult with your doctor before starting aspirin.SYMPTOMS -- The symptoms of a heart attack may not be what you think. The most common is chest pain or discomfort. But warning signs also include pain or discomfort elsewhere in the upper body, including the arms, back, neck or stomach.
 Women in particular may experience shortness of breath, exhaustion, nausea or vomiting, and back or jaw pain. If you have these symptoms, call an ambulance right away. Prompt treatment can open blocked coronary arteries, preventing areas of heart muscle from dying for lack of blood.PLANS -- If you are at high risk, develop a heart attack action plan in consultation with your doctor. That means knowing the warning signs of a heart attack and taking a nitroglycerin, a drug that widens blood vessels, if you have heart attack symptoms. If they don't go away in five minutes, take a second and third nitroglycerin.
 Have a list of your medicines ready for emergency personnel. And plan ahead with your doctor on how to get to a hospital that can provide emergency heart attack care, including angioplasty, a procedure in which a cardiologist opens a blocked artery with a tiny balloon and then, usually, inserts a stent, a tiny metal cage, to keep it open. Many hospitals do not offer this procedure to heart attack patients, but, if at all possible, you need to go to one that does. If your symptoms stop completely in less than 5 minutes, you should still call your health care provider.URGENCY -- Everyone who has symptoms of a heart attack should call 911. Do not drive yourself to the emergency room. And do not dismiss symptoms because you think you are not at risk of a heart attack. Every minute of delay in getting treatment can mean death of heart muscle. Time is muscle, as cardiologists say.ABOUT THE SERIES -- They are the leading causes of illness and death in the United States today -- heart disease, cancer, stroke, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, diabetes and Alzheimer's disease, in that order. And they have a lot in common. 
 They are expensive -- together, they account for 25 percent of the nation's annual health care expenditures, said Jonathan Skinner, a health economist at Dartmouth College.
 They come in clusters -- accumulations of plaque in arteries lead to heart attacks but also can lead to strokes and predispose to Alzheimer's disease. Diabetes can lead to heart disease, stroke and even cancer. Smoking can lead to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease as well as cancer and heart disease, which in turn predisposes to Alzheimer's. 
 And the outlook for them is improving -- people are getting the diseases later in life, and death rates are falling.
 Yet, in many instances, patients are undertreated or treated inappropriately. In some cases, science has not offered answers, but in others, the medical system has been unable to turn proven remedies into everyday care.
 Today, The New York Times examines the No. 1 killer, heart disease. 
 A million Americans have heart attacks each year and half a million die. A great deal is known about how to prevent heart attacks, how to save lives and prevent disability. But opportunities are squandered out of complacency, denial and because of the way heart care is paid for. Among the current findings:
 Only a small fraction of the nation's acute care hospitals offer a treatment, angioplasty, that can open blocked arteries. Yet many other hospitals are reluctant to divert patients there because heart attack patients are so lucrative. 
 If patients get proper treatment within an hour of when their attack began, most, if not all, of the heart damage can be prevented. Only 10 percent get to a hospital that soon.
 Half the people who need to be treated to prevent heart attacks are not treated and half who are treated are treated inadequately. Patients go home with the wrong drugs or the wrong doses or misimpressions about the importance of taking their medications.Articles in the series will also cover:Cancer -- At a crossroad of early detection and treatment, with science advancing in small steps and prevention seen as crucial.Stroke -- Missed opportunities to prevent death and disability, with many hospitals poorly equipped to treat patients.Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease -- New attention to a troubling disease and how to buy time.Diabetes -- Pushing the limits of treatment and raising new questions of what patients can manage on their own.Alzheimer's -- Tracing the roots of a disease and trying to understand how and when to intervene.
 20%Percentage of American adults age 60 and over with coronary heart disease in 200425%Lifetime risk of a heart attack for an American woman at age 4042%Lifetime risk of a heart attack for an American man at age 40(Source by National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute data, National Center for Health Statistics and Framingham Heart Study)(pg. 21) 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Keith Orr in the intensive care unit of a Boston hospital as he recovered from his second heart attack and subsequent angioplasty. (Photo by Todd Heisler/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
CRITICAL MOMENTS -- The time when doctors have a chance to save most of the heart muscle is called ''the golden hour.'' (Photo by Todd Heisler/The New York Times)(pg. 20)
STAYING ACTIVE -- Naomi Atrubin, 76, who has had two heart attacks, exercises at the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota and participates in book and bridge clubs. (Photo by Todd Heisler/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. 21)Chart: ''Critical Timing''Based on data from multiple studies, Dr. Bernard Gersh has created a hypothetical curve showing that chances of survival decline with delays in treatment.Graph tracks the hypothetical mortality reduction against the hours from the onset of symptoms for the following: TIME SYMPTOMS APPEARCRITICAL TIME TO PROVIDE TREATMENT(Source by Mayo Clinic College of Medicine)(pg. 21)Chart: ''BY THE NUMBERS''15.8 millionNumber of Americans who had been given a diagnosis of coronary heart disease in 2004451,326Number of American deaths from coronary heart disease in 200419.1%Percentage of American deaths from coronary heart disease in 20041,236Number of Americans who died each day, on average, of coronary heart disease in 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); HEART DISEASE (90%); DIETING (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (77%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (76%); NUTRITION (76%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); DIABETES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); CHOLESTEROL (71%); HOSPITALS (69%); SCIENCE NEWS (68%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (68%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (68%) Heart; Research; Surveys and Series; Hospitals; Emergency Medical Treatment; Heart

ORGANIZATION: MAYO CLINIC (84%)

PERSON: Gina Kolata

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



171 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: With a Cafe's Evolution, a City With a Little Less Grit

BYLINE: By COLIN MOYNIHAN

 BODY:
During a recent afternoon at a place called Alt Coffee, on Avenue A, a young woman on a couch read a book called ''Sister of the Road: The Autobiography of Boxcar Bertha.'' Sitting nearby, another young woman, with dreadlocks and a nose ring, gazed at a laptop computer. A gray-haired man dozed in a chair as Beatles music played through speakers.
 In other words, it was a typical scene at Alt, one of the first cybercafes in Manhattan that for over a decade has been known as a bastion of punk-rock grime and grunge and a snug fit for the East Village. 
Sheets of paper reading ''bus your own table'' were taped to the tables, and a sign with a bold red slash through the image of a cellphone was taped to the door. Newer messages were also on display. They read: ''Alt Coffee Is Dead'' and included an invitation to a party held yesterday: ''Join us to mark the passing of consistently good coffee, occasionally cranky computers, and possibly the scariest bathroom currently on Avenue A.'' 
 In the next week or so the cafe is going to close. But not forever. After renovations, Alt Coffee will re-open as Hopscotch, a coffeehouse with a new name and a new look meant to keep it in step with the evolution of a neighborhood where stroller-bound children and their parents have drained away some of the East Village's grit. 
 The cafe's owner, Nick Bodor, 38, said that for years he was able to clear enough money from Alt to live on. But times have changed on Avenue A, where new boutiques now face a cleaned-up version of Tompkins Square Park that includes several playgrounds.
 Before Mr. Bodor rented the storefront in 1995, he said, it had been shuttered for 14 years. The first furniture he installed came from Dumpsters, and some of the early patrons included a man who read palms and people who lingered all day over a single cup of coffee. 
 But rents have risen in the neighborhood, including Mr. Bodor's. He said that since 2001 his insurance costs have tripled and that it recently became more expensive to rent computer equipment, leaving him little choice but to accommodate the changing times.
 Although he said that the neighborhood would be well served by a cafe that caters to children and thought he could preserve much of the vitality that made the place appealing, Mr. Bodor acknowledged that he was saddened by the economic necessities that forced the change.
 ''The variety is going,'' he said of the area. ''It's becoming more sterile.''
 And Alt was certainly not sterile. Many in the East Village consider the cafe one of the last remnants and reminders of a raffish past that is not distant chronologically, but that appears nowadays to be all but vanished. The clientele has included students, squatters, Lower East Side artists and a certain kind of traveler whose preferred means of transport is on board an empty freight train.
 The cafe has been the site of art exhibitions and avant-garde musical performances. It was where novels and screenplays were written, Mr. Bodor said, and where people met their future wives or husbands.
 ''This became the neighborhood's living room,'' he said.
 Life at Alt was not uniformly idyllic. Over the years Mr. Bodor has barred several visitors because of disorderly conduct. In the earlier days of the cafe, he sometimes rousted heroin users from the bathroom, where words scrawled on a wall read ''No OD's Allowed.''
 That graffiti-filled lavatory, which has been the site of a fashion magazine photo shoot and a broadcast on Japanese television, is sometimes compared to the bathroom inside CBGB, the defunct monument of punk that closed down last October after nearly 33 years on the Bowery. The one permanent art installation inside the Alt cafe is the stack of dozens of old computer monitors and hard drives piled inside a cast-iron claw foot tub next to the toilet.
 It is just that sort of sensibility that Kate McGrew, 28, an actress from Crown Heights, who was sitting near the cafe's front door, said she savored. 
 ''I'm so sad,'' she said of the impending change. ''This is what I love about New York, the grittiness of it.''
 At a nearby table, a 37-year-old artist from Brooklyn, who said he goes by the name Normal Bob Smith, said that he travels to Alt each day from Williamsburg. ''The first time I came here I thought I was walking into somebody's home by mistake,'' he said. ''It's always seemed too good to be true.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alt Coffee, on Avenue A in the East Village, will close and reopen in a form for its changed environs. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (77%); POP & ROCK (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (72%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (72%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (69%); RETAILERS (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%) Restaurants; Computers and the Internet; Children and Youth

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Alt.coffee (NYC Shop); Hopscotch (NYC Coffehouse)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (90%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (90%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%)

PERSON: Colin Moynihan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



172 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: Congress Seeks Compromise to Approve Generic Biotechnology Drugs

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 7 

 BODY:
Senior members of Congress from both parties are working feverishly on legislation that could give consumers access to lower-cost copies of biotechnology drugs that now cost tens or hundreds of thousands of dollars a year.
 Prospects for the legislation have increased since Democrats took control of Congress this year. Consumer groups, employers and insurers are lobbying for the bill, which they see as a way to hold down health costs.
The proposal faces formidable scientific and political obstacles. Brand-name pharmaceutical companies contend that biotechnology products, made from cells and living organisms, are so complex that a copy will never be identical to the original and therefore cannot be certified as safe without testing in humans. 
 Biotech medicines are the fastest-growing category of health spending, with sales of $40 billion last year, up 20 percent from 2005, according to IMS Health, a market research company. More than 400 biotech products are in the pipeline, for more than 100 diseases, including cancer, AIDS, diabetes and Alzheimer's.
 Conventional drugs are synthesized by putting atoms together from basic chemicals and are often in pill form. 
 Biotech drugs, also known as biologic products, are typically proteins made by modifying the DNA of bacteria, yeast or mammal cells, and they are often given by injection or infusion.
 Supporters of the legislation received an unexpected boost when the chief medical officer of the Food and Drug Administration, Dr. Janet Woodcock, told Congress last month that the agency had the expertise and experience to decide what types of human and laboratory tests were needed to ensure that copies of a biotechnology drug worked as well as the original.
 Brand-name drug manufacturers have urged Congress to require human trials before allowing the sale of any products billed as comparable or equivalent to biotechnology medicines already on the market.
 ''Some level of clinical testing should be required in all cases,'' said Dr. Susan D. Desmond-Hellmann, president for product development at Genentech.
 Dr. Jay P. Siegel, a senior scientist at Johnson & Johnson, said: ''I would never take a biologic that had not been tested in humans. The risks are too high.''
 But Dr. Woodcock said: ''Where trials are not needed, it is of questionable ethics to repeat them. The use of human subjects for trials that are not needed is not desirable.''
 Many biotech drugs are effective but expensive. Avastin, a cancer treatment made by Genentech, can cost $4,400 to $8,800 a month, with a maximum cost of $55,000 a year for people who qualify for the company's patient assistance program. 
 Cerezyme, a drug made by Genzyme for Gaucher disease, costs $200,000 a year. Enbrel, made by Amgen for rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis, costs an average of $16,000 a year.
 Biotech treatments for multiple sclerosis range in price from $16,000 to $25,000 a year. ''Many patients are denied access to these important drugs because even the co-payments can reach thousands of dollars a year,'' said Arney Rosenblat, a spokeswoman for the National Multiple Sclerosis Society.
 Consumers save billions of dollars a year by using low-cost generic versions of conventional drugs, which are approved by the government under a 1984 law. 
 One author of the 1984 law, Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California, is pushing a bill that would authorize the Food and Drug Administration to approve safe, lower-cost versions of biotechnology drugs. 
 Senators Charles E. Schumer and Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, both Democrats, have introduced an identical bill, with support from several Republicans, including Senators Susan Collins of Maine and David Vitter of Louisiana.
 The chief lobby for makers of biotech drugs, the Biotechnology Industry Organization, strongly opposes the bill, saying it would endanger patients and kill incentives for research and innovation.
 But AARP, the lobby for older Americans, has joined the Consumers Union, Aetna, the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association, Caterpillar, General Motors, Kaiser Permanente, and Walgreens and other chain drugstores in a coalition supporting the legislation.
 The bill reflects the initial negotiating position of the generic drug industry and its allies as Congress begins serious negotiations to reach a compromise. 
 A co-author of the 1984 law, Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, predicted that Congress would pass legislation on the issue this year.
 Mr. Hatch is trying to work out a compromise, more acceptable to brand-name drug makers, in negotiations with Mrs. Clinton and Senators Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Michael B. Enzi, Republican of Wyoming. 
 Mr. Kennedy represents a state with scores of biotech companies and is chairman of the Senate committee with authority over the issue. Mr. Enzi is the senior Republican on that panel.
 They are seeking a balance like the one struck in the 1984 law, which fostered a booming generic drug industry while protecting the patent rights of brand-name drug makers -- a crucial incentive for research on new drugs.
 The manufacture of biotech drugs is more complex and costly than the production of conventional medicines. But economists cite another reason for the high prices: biotech medicines generally face no competition from copycat drugs.
 When the first generic copy of a conventional drug becomes available, it may cost 15 percent less than the brand-name product. If several competing generic versions are available, the price often falls by 60 percent or more.
 Prof. Henry G. Grabowski, a health economist at Duke University, said prices would decline less for biotechnology drugs.
 But Scott McKibbin, an aide to Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich of Illinois, said biotech drugs were so expensive that discounts of just 10 percent to 20 percent would save tens of millions of dollars for the state's Medicaid program and the state employees' health plan.
 The debate over biotech drugs is filled with paradoxes. Brand-name drug companies, which have for years criticized the regulation of drug prices in Europe, now point to Europe's strict regulation of ''follow-on biologics'' as a possible model for the United States. Democrats, who have often criticized the F.D.A. as lax in enforcing drug safety laws, now say they trust the agency to decide whether copies of biotech drugs are safe and effective, without the full range of tests required for new products.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Orrin G. Hatch, left, and Representative Henry A. Waxman are working on legislation to provide lower-cost biotechnology drugs. (Photo by Damian Dovarganes/Associated Press)
 (Photo by Jamie Rose for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); LOBBYING (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); CANCER (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ARTHRITIS (78%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); APPROVALS (76%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (75%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (75%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (74%); ONCOLOGY (73%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (73%); AIDS & HIV (73%); GENETIC DISEASES (72%); INSURANCE (71%); BIOLOGICS MFG (71%); MAMMALS (71%); BACTERIA (70%); ETHICS (68%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (67%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (67%); PSORIASIS (67%); DIABETES (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%); HUMAN SUBJECTS (63%) Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Generic and Brand Name Products; Tests and Testing; Law and Legislation; Biotechnology; Lobbying and Lobbyists

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (63%); AMGEN INC (58%); GENZYME CORP (58%); IMS HEALTH INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (63%); AMGN (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (63%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

PERSON: HENRY WAXMAN (58%); ORRIN HATCH (57%); SUSAN DESMOND-HELLMANN (50%) Robert Pear

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



173 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 8245 words

HEADLINE: Keeping the Faith

BYLINE: By Russell Shorto. 
Russell Shorto, a contributing writer, frequently covers religion for the magazine. His last article was about the battle over contraception.

 BODY:
Walk into a shop to buy a newspaper or a wurst or a Game Boy in the German city of Regensburg and your server will probably welcome you with a brisk ''gruss' Gott,'' shorthand for ''God greet you.'' It's the local form of hello: street-corner dudes and grandmas, everyone says it. This is Bavaria, Germany's Catholic heartland, a region that gives the lie to the popular notion that Western Europe has tossed its Christian heritage in history's dustbin. Bavaria is as modern as you please -- a center of the European telecommunications industry, the home of BMW (as in Bavarian Motor Works) -- but on any special occasion you see couples wandering around looking like Hansel and Gretel, in lederhosen and dirndls. Elsewhere in Germany, Bavarian jokes serve the same function that Polish jokes used to in the United States. Bavarians will tell you they hold to tradition, religion and antique styles of speech not out of stupidity or addiction to kitsch but because they believe these things encompass what is real and true. 
The center of Regensburg is all old stone, a carefully preserved medley of medieval towers, gates and spires clustered on the banks of the Danube, and in various ways -- the firmness of the material, the rigorous workmanship, the serious commitment to the past as a component of the present -- you might see this clutch of buildings as a metaphor for the mind and heart of Bavaria's most illustrious native. Joseph Ratzinger -- Pope Benedict XVI -- was born in a little village tucked between a ridge and a broad plain of farmland to the east, and the major events of his childhood and much of his adulthood played out around here. It was in many ways an idyllic, almost fairy-tale youth. The family home in Traunstein was an 18th-century farmhouse with a single wood-shingled roof covering living quarters, hayloft and animal stalls. The Roman Catholic Church provided both structure and spectacle: at Eastertime, black curtains hung on the windows of the village church, so that, as Ratzinger wrote in his 1997 autobiography, ''the whole space was filled by a mysterious darkness. When the pastor sang the words 'Christ is risen!' the curtains would suddenly fall, and the space would be flooded by radiant light. This was the most impressive portrayal of the Lord's Resurrection that I can conceive of.''
 The Bavarian idyll dissolved: Nazi songs crept into the music books at school. Ratzinger entered the seminary in 1939 as Hitler's soldiers completed the occupation of Czechoslovakia. Shortly after, at age 16, he was drafted and began his much-reported stint in the Hitler Youth, assigned to guard a BMW plant north of Munich. When the Americans arrived, they used his family home as their base and took him as a war prisoner. Throughout the Nazi experience, his father guided him to see it as an outgrowth of modern godlessness. The effect was to reinforce the idea of the church as a bulwark against darkness -- against secularism and rationality run amok.
 Returning to the seminary immediately after the war, Ratzinger became deeply influenced by the philosophy of personalism, which saw the basis of reality not in bloodless science but in the individual human being and whose adherents would come to include Vaclav Havel and the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. He looked, too, to the German philosophers Edmund Husserl and Martin Heidegger as guides, for their inquiries into ''pure being'' allowed for a more human understanding of the world than the scientific materialism that was rapidly winning acceptance in Western culture. But all of this was mere supplement to Catholic theology. ''Dogma'' wasn't a dirty word -- it was the ground. ''Dogma was conceived not as an external shackle but as the living source that made knowledge of the truth possible in the first place,'' he wrote in his memoirs. Ratzinger rose rapidly through the ranks of Bavaria's intensely rigorous Catholic institutions, holding the chairmanship in dogma at the University of Regensburg from 1969 to 1976, until he was appointed archbishop of Munich and Freising and his career focus shifted toward Rome.
 So the occasion of the speech that Benedict made at the University of Regensburg last September -- the speech that caromed around the world and caused protests in the Middle East and attacks on Christians and churches in Iraq, Somalia and the West Bank for his seeming to say that Islam is a religion of violence -- marked a homecoming, albeit an incendiary one.
 The speech was a setback for relations between Islam and the West (by most accounts the pope regained some ground on his subsequent trip to Turkey last November), yet it also laid bare the foundation of the pontificate Benedict would pursue and so in a sense marked the real beginning of the post-John Paul II era in the Catholic Church. Today, as he approaches the second anniversary of his papacy (April 19) and his 80th birthday (April 16), it seems clear that Joseph Ratzinger's lifelong agenda -- rooted in Bavarian Catholicism and his experience of Nazism -- has been updated, and he is now trying to bring it to bear on the post-9/11 world.
 As it routinely does with journalists, the Vatican declined requests for a papal interview for this article, but Benedict has made his objectives clear in a variety of ways. Compared with his predecessor, who was elected pope at the age of 58, he knows he has a limited time and has been rather direct in advancing his theme. The poles of his papacy might be seen in the subjects of two books by him just being released in the United States. One is about Jesus. The other is titled ''Europe Today and Tomorrow.'' Benedict is one of the most intellectual men ever to serve as pope -- and surely one of the most intellectual of current world leaders -- and he has pinpointed the problem of the age, as well as its solution, at the level of philosophy. His argument, elaborated in the years leading up to his election and continuing through his daily speeches and pronouncements, reduces to something like this: Secularism may be one of the great developments in history, but the secularism that holds sway in much of the West -- that is, in Western Europe -- is flawed; it has a bug in its programming. The mistaken conviction that reason and faith are two distinct realms has weakened Europe and has brought it to the verge of catastrophic collapse. As he said in a speech in 2004: ''There exist pathologies in religion that are extremely dangerous and that make it necessary to see the divine light of reason as a 'controlling organ.' . . . However . . . there are also pathologies of reason . . . there is a hubris of reason that is no less dangerous.'' If you seek a way out of the vast post-9/11 quagmire (Baghdad bomb blasts, Iranian nukes, Danish cartoons, ever-more-bizarre airport security measures and the looming mayhem they are meant to stop), and for that matter if you believe in Europe and ''the West'' (the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel, a bottle of Chateau Lafite Rothschild, the whole heritage of 2,500 years of history), then now, Benedict in effect argues, the Catholic Church must be heeded. Because its tradition was filtered through the Enlightenment, the thinking goes, the church can provide a bridge between godless rationality and religious fundamentalism.
 One remarkable thing about Benedict's papacy has been that he has largely disarmed the left wing of the church. In his 24 years as prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, the Vatican enforcement office once known as the Inquisition, he built a famously fearsome reputation for doctrinal correctness: disciplining Latin American practitioners of liberation theology; restating the ancient dogma that ''there is no salvation outside the church''; adamantly resisting any effort to change policies regarding birth control, priestly celibacy or the ordination of women; and having no qualms about stepping into the political arena, as when he instructed American bishops during the 2004 presidential campaign that it was wrong to grant Communion to a Catholic -- like John Kerry -- who supports abortion rights.
 But when Ratzinger became Benedict, ''God's Rottweiler,'' as he was sometimes known, grew far tamer; he has instead played the roles of pastor and father. With some notable exceptions (he issued a reminder last month that ''hell, of which so little is said in our time, exists and is eternal''), the emphasis has been less on railing against the Catholic evils of abortion and birth control than on occupying the safe high ground: peace in Iraq, religious freedom, confronting poverty. One reason may be that while Benedict is the same person as the Cardinal Ratzinger who served as John Paul II's enforcer, ''he is also the same person as the young theologian who helped craft some of the progressive measures of the 1960s'' during the Second Vatican Council, the Rev. Keith Pecklers, a professor of liturgical history at the Pontifical Gregorian University in Rome, told me recently. ''Perhaps he's rediscovering some of that freedom.'' 
 Immediately after the white smoke went up, the liberal theologian Hans KA1/4ng -- who for decades has called for the church to decentralize, accept birth control and allow priests to marry -- declared Ratzinger's election ''an enormous disappointment.'' But a year later he said he saw ''signs of hope,'' and in a recent e-mail message, he indicated to me that he still does, albeit with reservations. Another church figure known for his liberal views, who spoke on condition he not be identified, said of the pope: ''He has surprised everyone. You can't take the things he wrote in his earlier role and use them as guidelines.''
 Benedict is a man of curious contrasts. People who know him well use the same words to describe his personal demeanor, which runs counter to the image he developed in his previous role: they say he is meek, shy, courtly, modest, and indeed, seeing him in person -- his eyes wide, his gaze soft and searching, as if for something he lost -- you get the impression less of a holy warrior than of a kindly grandfather. Although a consummate Vatican insider, he has a certain lack of savvy, as evidenced in Regensburg and again in January when he appointed to the archbishopric of Warsaw a man who, it turned out, had ties with Poland's Communist-era secret police and who was forced to resign two days later. Friends say that at the table he is abstemious, typically taking modest portions of one or two dishes (he has a special fondness for mozzarella cheese) and drinking a small amount of red wine. Yet he has also been known to wear Prada and Gucci.
 As a longtime university professor, the pope is well known for his collegiality, his reaching out to, and exchanging ideas with, a broad spectrum of Catholics as well as with nonbelievers. This may explain why, despite the fact that his core conservative convictions are unchanged, he has managed to get many left-leaning church figures to rally around his central focus. Notker Wolf, abbot primate of the worldwide Benedictine order, himself a Bavarian who has known the pope for decades, was critical at the start, based on Ratzinger's actions in his previous job. But Wolf, too, was won over. As we sat in the serene Sant'Anselmo monastery on the Aventine Hill in Rome, which serves as the headquarters of the Benedictines, he distilled the pope's core message for me this way: ''Western society has become detached from the roots of its creator. This is the basic view of the pope, and it is my view also. What the Muslims say about the decadence of Europe is partly right, and that's because we think we have to set up everything as if God doesn't exist. On the other hand, faith also has to be reasonable -- it has to stand in front of reason. I would say that he means this not just regarding terrorism but also charismatics. He says we have to remain sober in this religious way of thinking. The old Occidental tradition has been a fruitful tension between faith and reason.''
 Recent events elsewhere -- China's Communist government's nominating its own bishops and creating a kind of shadow Catholic church, a renegade Zambian archbishop's ordaining married priests in Africa even after being excommunicated -- demand a great deal of the Vatican's attention and underscore the fact that the church's growth and future are in parts of the world where Catholicism is an alien culture. Yet Benedict is European to the core, and for him Western Europe remains the heart of the church. It is also, in his view, the place where the tension between reason and faith is most acute and most potentially explosive. Thus the import of the speech he delivered on his native soil. The paradox he put forth in the address is that where the secular West tends to think it has expanded the scope of reason, in fact it has done the reverse. Many of the problems facing the West, he argues, stem from the fact that secular Europe is losing its ability to communicate with the rest of the world. This dangerous chasm has to be bridged. ''We will succeed in doing so only if reason and faith come together in a new way,'' he said, ''if we overcome the self-imposed limitation of reason to the empirically falsifiable and if we once more disclose its vast horizons.''
 Talking about the speech, the Rev. Thomas Reese, former editor of the American Jesuit journal America, who, interestingly, was fired from that post by then-Cardinal Ratzinger for allowing too broad a range of ideas in its pages, told me: ''The Regensburg address was not about Islam. The pope's primary target is Europe. He sees a great need for it to get back to its Christian roots. That is his main goal, and if he accomplishes it, it would trump John Paul II's achievement in helping bring down Communism.''
 Then again, what nobody knows -- as I learned in travels through traditionally Catholic parts of Europe over the fall and winter -- is whether it is too late. As one retired archbishop said to me, speaking on condition of anonymity, ''There are European bishops who feel you can't talk about a Christian Europe anymore without insulting people's intelligence.''
 ''Europe is infected by a strange lack of desire for the future.''
 Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, ''Without Roots,'' 2004
 Six nights before Christmas, I wandered into the Church of Santa Maria Sopra Minerva in central Rome. The church is one of Catholicism's great Gothic temples, a soaring, vaulted space in which the tombs of popes and saints line the nave. The building dates to the 13th century, but as its name suggests, its lineage goes much further back. It was erected on the site of an eighth-century church, which in turn was constructed over an ancient shrine to the Roman goddess of wisdom.
 As it happened, vespers Mass was just beginning, so I slid into a pew. This being the holy season, the Mass featured a phalanx of seven priests, resplendent in purple raiments. What skewed the picture was the congregation: a total of 11 people, all but lost in the soaring stony grandeur, the only ones clearly under the age of 70 being three African women in head scarves and floral dresses. It may have been incongruous, but it wasn't unexpected. This is the face of European Catholicism -- of Christianity in general in Europe -- that we have come to expect in recent years as studies and news reports back up the notion of a continent that has seemingly outgrown its ancient spiritual practices: the splendor and majesty of the Western tradition reduced to a geriatric, art-filled echo chamber.
 Comparing survey data on church attendance in Europe and the United States is doubly revealing. In Western Europe as a whole, fewer than 20 percent of people say they go to church (Catholic or Protestant) twice a month or more; in some countries the figure is below 5 percent. In England, fewer than 8 percent go to church on Sundays. In the U.S., by contrast, 63 percent say they are a member of a church or synagogue, and 43 percent of respondents to a 2006 Gallup Poll said they attended services weekly or almost weekly. But the story is more complicated than this. ''The interesting fact is that people responding to questions about religion lie in both directions,'' says the Spanish sociologist Jose Casanova, who is chairman of the sociology department at the New School for Social Research in New York and an authority on religion in Europe and the United States. ''In America, people exaggerate how religious they are, and in Europe, it's the other way around. That has to do with the situation of religion in both places. Americans think religion is a good thing and tend to feel guilty that they aren't religious enough. In Europe, they think being religious is bad, and they actually feel guilty about being too religious.''
 The landscape of the church in Europe -- and not just the Catholic Church but nearly all forms of organized Christianity -- is changing at a lightning pace. As precipitous as the decline in parishioners is, the drop-off in seminarians is even greater -- in Ireland, there are only 3.6 seminarians per 100 priests, as compared with 10 per 100 in the U.S. and 22.5 per 100 in still-faithful Poland -- so that with fewer new priests every year, the church in Western Europe is forced to import. It's not uncommon to find African priests saying Mass in Tuscany.
 Few of the people I talked to in the vast and effusive crowds swarming central Regensburg while the pope was there said they believed he would succeed in bringing back the European church. ''This pope is good for Germany and for all the world!'' a man selling Tyrolean sausages in the town's central square said proudly. But when asked about the future of the church, he laughed. ''In Germany, church attendance is down and down. I don't think he can change that.'' Sociologists and even some church officials routinely apply the term ''post-Christian'' to Europe or parts thereof. Spain is still deeply Catholic in its cultural identity, yet polls show half the country ''almost never'' attends Mass, and the government has defied the church in legalizing same-sex marriage and making abortion easier to obtain. A recent survey of the Church of England by researchers at the University of Wales showed that only 60 percent of its clergy believe in the virgin birth of Jesus, and 1 out of 33 Anglican priests doubts the existence of God.
 This picture -- of a continent that is truly and profoundly secular, that has lost its ear for the spiritual -- is what Benedict railed at in his Regensburg talk: ''A reason which is deaf to the divine and which relegates religion into the realm of subcultures is incapable of entering into the dialogue of cultures.'' Writing in 2005, just before his election, he laid the blame squarely on Western Europe: ''While Europe once was the Christian Continent, it was also the birthplace of that new scientific rationality which has given us both enormous possibilities and enormous menaces. . . . In the wake of this form of rationality, Europe has developed a culture that, in a manner hitherto unknown to mankind, excludes God from public awareness. . . . A culture has developed in Europe that is the most radical contradiction not only of Christianity but of all the religious and moral traditions of humanity.''
 And yet there are indications that reports of the Continent's spiritual death have been exaggerated. Consider the curious fact that Benedict's Wednesday prayers in St. Peter's Square routinely attract many more people than did those of the wildly popular John Paul II -- this despite the fact that Benedict's style is more professorial than theatrical. Consider that 79 percent of Spaniards still think of themselves as Catholics and that more than 90 percent of Italians sign their children up for Catholic religious instruction.
 Or consider that after I attended the nearly empty Christmas season Mass at Sopra Minerva in Rome, I strolled a few hundred yards away, just across the Tiber, to find a radically different spectacle. The Basilica of Santa Maria in Trastevere is just as ancient and just as packed with icons that are featured in art-history texts as Sopra Minerva. Here 300 people filled the pews, as is more or less the case seven nights a week at 8:30 p.m. They were mostly in their 20s to 40s, most seemed to be professionals, a group both well shod and featuring some extreme eyewear. The setting couldn't have been more Catholic, and yet it wasn't a Mass that was taking place. No priest officiated; there was no Communion offered, no body and blood of Christ. It was an energetic, soulful lay service, a 30-minute meditation -- a well-orchestrated mix of prayer and song on a spot where Christians have celebrated their rites since around 300 A.D., conducted by and for ordinary people. Precisely at 9 o'clock it ended; people gathered into clusters and chatted briefly and then everyone headed into the night.
 This is the home church of the Community of Sant'Egidio, a lay movement that began here in the Trastevere section of Rome in 1968 and now has a presence in 70 countries. The roots of it are these prayer events, which take place every evening in cities around the world. ''I would say half of us had left the church or were never in the church,'' Leone Gianturco, a 44-year-old economist with the Italian Treasury, told me following the service. ''This is personal fellowship. It's a community that makes sense for us.''
 Lay Catholic movements have made little headway in the United States, but they have proliferated in Europe. The secret of the lay movements, Pecklers, the liturgical history professor, says, is that ''they have a language that reaches people. Look at the average European parish, where there aren't many people in church for Mass. They don't know one another, the priest comes out of the sacristy and begins Mass. There's no contact between the priest and the people. The homily may be quite abstract. What would attract a young Italian or Spaniard to go to church, except obligation? The individual is not being nourished. That's why you find people shopping around.''
 Each lay group attracts particular kinds of people. Sant'Egidio's focus on poverty and peace draws activists. Its leaders helped mediate between warring factions in Mozambique, Uganda and Kosovo; several times the group has been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize. The current focus is on a program to make H.I.V. drug therapy more widely available in Africa. (The program also includes distribution of condoms, but quietly, since Sant'Egidio wants to maintain good relations with the Vatican.) 
 Focolare, another lay movement that began in Italy and has spread worldwide, has a more inward focus and a more conservative bent. The core members live together in small units of three to five people, which are the contact points for the wider community. The organizing principle is ''unity.'' ''We achieve this unity by loving, because when we love one another then Jesus is present, and it grows, so that 2 or 3 becomes 10 or 20,'' says Julian Ciabattini, a member of the Focolare board. Focolare claims two million followers worldwide, with the strongest growth in Italy, Germany, Brazil and Argentina.
 Most of these lay Catholic movements began in the 1960s and '70s in the wake of the Second Vatican Council, started by young Catholics who chafed under the top-down system of control operated by elderly celibate males. The groups remained small for years. Since they existed outside the power structure of the church, they weren't entirely understood by church leaders, many of whom were suspicious. But early in his pontificate John Paul II embraced and encouraged the movements and gave them official standing, so that during his tenure the varieties of lay groups and their membership increased precipitously. When John Paul held the first World Congress of Ecclesial Movements and New Communities in 1998, 400,000 people, representing more than 100 lay Catholic groups, gathered in St. Peter's Square in Rome. That was one indication, for many church leaders, that something remarkable was afoot.
 The next was John Paul's funeral in 2005, which became an international event on a scale the modern church had never experienced. According to many observers, the lay movements substantially accounted for the unimagined numbers of mourners who poured into Rome. Data on declining church attendance obscure the fact that there is a good deal of spiritual hunger in Europe, but it is largely outside institutional religion, a phenomenon that the British sociologist Grace Davie calls ''believing without belonging.'' The Vatican is aware of this and says that the lay Catholic movements may represent a bridge, a way to bring the aimless, searching, largely secular Europeans back into the fold. 
 Msgr. Donald Bolen, an official with the Vatican's Pontifical Council for Promoting Christian Unity, told me that the lay movements ''are movements of the Holy Spirit. The temptation in the church has long been to try to keep the parishes filled, to spend energy on maintenance. These movements are not about maintenance of old structures. But this isn't a new thing. When Francis of Assisi started with his little band of disciples, some were confused. Movements within the church are not new.'' The pope's media spokesman, the Rev. Federico Lombardi, made much the same point to me: ''The lay movements are a sign of life. The Vatican is not the whole church.'' 
 But the problem is that the spiritual hunger that exists in Europe seems to be precisely for what the church can't provide. Polls show that Europeans distrust institutions of all kinds. For an institution that is practically synonymous with hierarchy and control, the lay movements may represent as much a threat as a promise. Some of the groups have been chastised by the Vatican for straying from doctrine on issues like marriage and confession; some are so insular and devoted to following the teaching of their founders that critics have compared them to cults or sects. (There is at least one Web site devoted to helping ''recovering'' members of Focolare.)
 In an age when the church is struggling against the twin tides of secularism and resurgent Islam, conservatives say that Rome needs to assert its authority to ensure that its message and power are not diluted. Alessandro Maggiolini, the recently retired bishop from Como in Northern Italy, has argued that in 50 years the church itself will be extinct not because of outside forces but because of disobedience to church teaching. On the other side, Cardinal Godfried Danneels of Belgium has called for the church to decentralize, to open itself up to its own people. This is the question that has divided the church since the reforms of Vatican II in the 1960s: Is the church the people or the institution? In Europe, the institution may be on life support, but the Vatican knows there is energy to be harnessed among the masses. So far, Benedict seems to want to have it both ways. When he held the second gathering of lay movements in May 2006, attracting a crowd in the hundreds of thousands, he praised their energy, but the praise came with a warning and a reminder that they are not citizens in a religious democracy or diners at a spiritual buffet but are members of an institution whose power flows from the top, its infallible leader, and moves through the channels of the bishops and priests down to the laity. ''I trust in your ready obedience,'' he said.
 ''The Muslims . . . feel threatened not by the foundations 
 of our Christian morality but by the cynicism of a secularized 
 culture that denies its own foundations.''
 Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, ''Christianity and the Crisis of Cultures,'' 2005
 Deep in the old quarter of Brussels called the Marolles -- an area with a mixed population of impoverished immigrants and Gauloise-smoking hipsters -- sits a decaying pile of a church, the Aglise des Minimes, that was built in the early 1700s on the site of a whorehouse. One afternoon in late December, I showed up in time for the 12:15 Mass, but the church was completely empty. After a while, a man appeared and pointed me to a door. In a side chapel no bigger than a family dining room, I found the congregation, which in its entirety consisted of a woman in her 60s, a man in his 50s and the priest, who stood before a small table covered with white cloth on which sat a Bible, a missal, two white candles and a six-inch crucifix.
 After he had said Mass, Abbe Jacques van der Biest, 78 years old but built like a wrestler, gave me an account of what had transpired in his church a couple of months before. In October, a group of illegal Iranian immigrants barricaded themselves inside and began a hunger strike, trying to force Belgian officials to grant them asylum. It ended several days later, with two of the men climbing onto a nearby crane and threatening to jump while others inside vowed to light themselves on fire. The police surrounded the building; eventually the men gave themselves up. Far from minding his church being taken over, the abbe had rather encouraged it -- he had given sanctuary to Muslim asylum-seekers in the past and joined the refugees inside the barricade. ''For me the question isn't Muslims or not Muslims,'' he said. ''They are people who are looking for refuge, who need help.''
 The event, and others like it, caused a stir in this small nation that prides itself on progressive values. Starting in 2005, as part of the most recent wave of illegal -- mostly Muslim -- immigrants entering Europe seeking asylum, and amid the backlash across Europe, many Catholic churches opened themselves up as sanctuaries, places where immigrants could stay as they fought for asylum. While the Vatican was supportive -- ''The church has always sided with the weak,'' said Karl-Josef Rauber, the papal nuncio to Belgium -- many conservative Catholics were outraged. ''While Western Europe is turning Muslim, its Christian churches are committing suicide,'' wrote Paul Belien, editor of the Brussels Journal.
 Meanwhile, in Genoa late last year, a Capuchin friar sparked a nationwide outcry by offering local Muslims a parcel of church land on which to build a mosque. Currently, in the Andalusia region of Spain, Muslim leaders are locked in a struggle with local bishops over plans to build mosques and an Islamic center, in what some Catholics fear is a plan to turn the Spanish province back into al-Andalus, the Muslim stronghold of the Middle Ages.
 Conservative Catholics see all of these as variations on a dark theme: the barbarians are not only at the gate; they have swarmed the temple. As these critics well know, Islam is the fastest-growing religion in Europe. Estimates of the Muslim population in the 25 nations of the European Union range from 15 to 20 million, and the U.S. National Intelligence Council projects the number to double by 2025.
 On the other hand, there is a sense in which Christians and Muslims in Europe see themselves as being in the same boat. I spent time in Rome at the Pontifical Gregorian University, the Vatican's premier training ground for priests and others entering religious life, in order to learn about a program, begun in 2000, that brings graduate students from the Muslim world to study Christianity alongside seminarians. The purpose is not to convert the Muslims. ''The aim is that they will go back to their own country and speak of their experience here and testify that something different is possible,'' said Gaetano Sabetta, who works in the program, and by ''something different'' he meant a new model of cooperation and understanding as both faiths grapple with secular culture. The Muslim students say they feel bewildered by Italian society but are comfortable at the Gregorian itself. ''Within the university, the atmosphere is very religious,'' says Omar Sillah, a student from Gambia. ''It feels natural to me, as a religious Muslim. But as soon as you step outside the premises, it's a different world.'' The chief reaction of these devout, culturally savvy Muslims to living in Europe seems to be pity. ''The situation of Christianity here is very sad for me,'' says Ahmet Kademoglu, from Istanbul, who sometimes gives talks on religion at public schools in Italy. ''When I speak to groups of students here, I feel they treat religion like a football club, a side you are on. Whereas for me religion is where I find answers to the problems of life.''
 Kademoglu brought my attention to a significant paradox. His home, Turkey, is a secular country where studying Arabic is problematic, but the language is offered at the Gregorian. ''Here I spent three years learning the language of the Koran and did it alongside priests and nuns who wanted to understand my religion,'' he said. This seems to be what the pope had in mind in his Regensburg address when he talked about the Catholic Church's blending of reason and faith. ''Christian worship . . . is worship in harmony with the eternal word and with our reason,'' Benedict said. His choice of name reflects his emphasis on the intellectual tradition of St. Benedict, whose religious order preserved knowledge in Europe through the Middle Ages. Catholicism, for Benedict, has always been about study, intellect, reason. ''We are part of the modern world,'' he says in effect. ''We do reason. We study other faiths. We'll even teach you Arabic.''
 While the address on his native soil was condemned for his reference to Islam and violence, the larger issue, which is perhaps no less incendiary, is his implicit notion that Islam lacks this rational gene. He noted in the talk that ''not to act in accordance with reason is contrary to God's nature'' and quoted a scholar, seemingly approvingly, who contrasted this with Islam: ''But for Muslim teaching, God is absolutely transcendent. His will is not bound up with any of our categories, even that of rationality.'' Benedict was taken to task by 38 Muslim scholars, who wrote a joint letter indicating that his words distorted Muslim thought on reason and faith and stating that Muslims acknowledge ''a hierarchy of knowledge of which reason is a crucial part.'' But while the Vatican backpedaled, Benedict was probably addressing a concern of many Europeans, both in the church and out.
 ''The positive aspects of modernity are to be acknowledged 
 unreservedly: we are all grateful for the marvelous possibilities that 
 it has opened up for mankind and for the progress in 
 humanity that has been granted to us. The intention here is not one of retrenchment or negative criticism but of broadening 
 our concept of reason and its application.''
 Pope Benedict, address delivered in Regensburg, Germany, Sept. 12, 2006
 Two weeks ago, as part of the celebration of the 50th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome, which created the European Economic Community, Benedict addressed the cardinals and bishops of Europe along with an assortment of politicians. His theme was the need for Europe to return to the church, and after duly noting the extraordinary economic success that the E.U. has achieved, he added: ''One must unfortunately note that Europe seems to be traveling along a road that could lead to its disappearance from history.''
 This theme was familiar to many of those present, who had not only heard it from Benedict before but had sounded it themselves in recent years. The attempt to fashion a European Union Constitution mostly made news in the U.S. when it was shot down in 2005 by voters in France and the Netherlands. But in Europe there had previously been considerable fuss over the wording of the preamble, in which some felt it necessary to define ''Europe'' beyond mere geography. In terms of history and culture, authors of the document were happy to refer to European roots in Greek and Roman antiquity and to acknowledge the Enlightenment and the scientific tradition. But when Pope John Paul II made a push for recognition of the role of Christianity, and in particular Catholicism, in shaping Europe, he was rejected. ''The lay character of French institutions does not allow them to accept a religious reference,'' the president of France, Jacques Chirac, said.
 Quite a few Europeans were spurred to action by this rejection. It happened that on successive days in May 2004, Cardinal Ratzinger, then prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, and Marcello Pera, then president of the Italian Senate, who was also once a philosopher at the University of Pisa, gave speeches on the topic of European identity on each other's turf in Rome, the churchman in the Italian Senate and the senator at the Pontifical Lateran University. Ratzinger's theme was ''the spiritual roots of Europe,'' and he criticized a culture that gave value and protection to other religions -- notably Judaism and Islam -- but that denied the same to Christianity. With his trademark bite, he identified ''a peculiar Western self-hatred that is nothing short of pathological.''
 Though Pera is a nonbeliever, both men were struck by the fact that the two speeches overlapped a good deal. ''It got a lot of people thinking,'' Pera told me.
 Pera and Ratzinger eventually published a book together called ''Without Roots,'' which criticized the secular European mind-set and concluded that European secularism is disastrously misguided. ''I began to realize that if we cannot recognize the fact that Christianity shaped our culture, then we lose our identity,'' Pera said. ''And then how can we have a dialogue with other civilizations? That's exactly what has happened with Islam. Europe is losing its soul. Not only are we no longer Christian; we're anti-Christian. So we don't know who we are.''
 Ratzinger, meanwhile, scathingly compared contemporary Europe with resurgent Islam. Islam today, he wrote at the time in an essay that is part of the book on Europe that was just released, ''is capable of offering a valid spiritual basis for the life of the peoples, a basis that seems to have slipped out of the hands of old Europe, which thus, notwithstanding its continued political and economic power, is increasingly viewed as a declining culture condemned to fade away.'' At the Mass following the death of John Paul II, it was Ratzinger who gave the homily to his fellow cardinals, which amounted to a restating of his theme: ''We are moving toward a dictatorship of relativism which does not recognize anything as for certain and which has as its highest goal one's own ego and one's own desires.'' The ''dictatorship of relativism'' trope sharpened -- not to say hardened -- the church's position vis-a-vis secular European culture and may have been what swept him into office. 
 Senator Pera exemplifies a species that virtually doesn't exist in the U.S.: a politician who publicly professes his lack of religious faith and who is a conservative to boot. He was the No. 2 man in Silvio Berlusconi's government, and he is blunt in expressing his beliefs about the Muslim presence in Europe. (''I use the term 'invasion,' '' Pera told me.) But the alignment of intellectuals behind the Ratzinger-Benedict call for a renewed appreciation of religion and the church in Europe extends leftward as well. In 2001, the German philosopher JA1/4rgen Habermas, arguably Europe's most distinguished intellectual, was set to accept an award in Frankfurt, but the Sept. 11 attacks, just three weeks earlier, caused him to rethink his remarks. Like many philosophers, Habermas is not spiritually inclined, but he refocused on the subject of the interaction of faith and reason. Religious convictions, he said, are not the nonsense that philosophy has long portrayed them to be but rather pose a genuine ''cognitive challenge'' that philosophy has to take up. 
 In January 2004, the Catholic Academy of Bavaria invited Habermas and Cardinal Ratzinger to air their ideas about the moral foundations of society in a public forum. There, Habermas used the term ''post-secular'' to describe what modern society ought to be. Secularization, he and others have argued, was first the process, begun in the 17th and 18th centuries, of prying the fingers of the church from government and economy -- all the aspects of life in which it had gained control. The idea emerged of the state as a neutral foundation for its citizens and their varied beliefs. But in Europe, secularism then came to mean antireligion. Historically, this antipathy was directed at Catholicism as well as at Protestant churches; Muslim immigration has teased it back to the surface and given it a new target.
 But keeping religion in a cage has been a huge mistake, according to some intellectuals on both the left and the right. ''I don't say that we need religion because we need conservative values,'' Casanova of the New School for Social Research told me. ''From the left, the point is not to defend religion per se but to defend the principle of free exercise.''
 The Catholic Church has always been the dominant religious institution in Europe, but the global, high-profile papacy of John Paul II had the effect of making the church, and the pope in particular, something more: the flag bearer for Christianity. As a result of John Paul, Bishop John Flack, the archbishop of Canterbury's representative to the Holy See, told me: ''I think there are quite a number of Christians around the world who would say that while we may have questions about the papacy, we have come to see the Catholic pope as a leader. There's a sense in which he represents Christians.'' Indeed, after meeting with Benedict last August, Angela Merkel, Germany's chancellor, who is herself a Protestant, backed a renewed push for a European Union Constitution and one that would explicitly refer to Europe's ''Christian values.''
 Because Benedict is a theologian, and one whose emphasis is on ancient Christian writings dating before the split among the various forms of Christianity, leaders of the Orthodox churches in Russia, Eastern Europe and Turkey have indicated that they see in him some hope of transcending differences. Benedict is steeped in Christian symbolism and has used it to send signals across these divides, which go under the radar of most people. When he became pope, for example, he adopted a style of palium -- a neckpiece -- not worn by popes since the first millennium, before the schism between the Eastern and Western churches, which had partly to do with the claim of papal supremacy. ''I met in the past six months with Orthodox leaders in Europe,'' Father Pecklers told me. ''And they all commented on that. They said, You have no idea what that meant for us, that symbolic desire to reconcile with us.''
 So in the complicated wrestling match involving secularism, Christianity and Islam, some non-Roman Catholic Christians are looking to Benedict for leadership while others are trying to influence him. ''One of the things that we are trying to do -- the people behind the scenes in Rome -- is to encourage the pope to speak more and more about what we might call the world's agenda,'' Flack said. ''The future of the planet, the environment, poverty in Africa and India. How do we cope with rising fundamentalism not just in Islam but all the world religions? We need to hear what he feels about those things, not just internal church issues.''
 ''How much filth there is in the church and even 
 among those who, in the priesthood, ought to belong entirely to him!''
 Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, 
 Stations of the Cross meditation, Good Friday, 2005
 Last month, the pope stood on the balcony of St. Peter's Basilica and exhorted the thousands gathered below for his Saturday greeting that they must pray every day, telling them that prayer is ''a question of life or death.'' It was Benedict speaking, not Ratzinger. As pope, he has focused attention on such matters as the need for Catholics to reconnect with the Virgin Mary, the bodily resurrection of Jesus Christ, and the importance of the liturgy in the Mass -- all touchstones of Roman Catholic piety.
 But the church is more than piety. It is undergirded by a network of rules, obedience requirements, punishments and admonitions of which Ratzinger is perhaps the chief modern architect and by a system of protecting its own that is centuries old. If the church fails to realize Benedict's goal of bringing Europe back into the fold and of making itself a mediator between godless secularism and the fervent Islam of many of the Continent's newest residents, what may be the prime reason for that failure was laid out for me by a calmly impassioned 40-year-old man sitting in a boxy, Ikea-style office just off leafy and genteel Merrion Square in Dublin. Colm O'Gorman is the founder and director of a counseling center called One in Four, the ratio referring to the percentage of adults in Ireland said to have suffered sexual abuse as children. Beginning when he was 14 and serving as a choirboy in the rural diocese of Ferns, O'Gorman was repeatedly abused and raped by the local priest. In 1998, he filed a lawsuit against the diocese as a way to get the church to recognize the problem of pedophilic clergy. In 2003, the diocese agreed to pay $325,000 to settle the suit. Meanwhile, as attention built, the Irish government opened a formal inquiry and issued a damning report in 2005. O'Gorman is now a celebrity in Ireland and currently is running for Parliament. The United States is the country with by far the largest number of sex-abuse claims made against Catholic priests, but Ireland has that distinction in Europe, and in both countries the number of priests who have committed sexual crimes on minors has been estimated at 4 percent.
 O'Gorman told me the issue of sex abuse among the Catholic clergy, as big as it is in itself, gets at something even more elemental. Even after years of coverage in the U.S. and Europe, and hundreds of lawsuits and tales of woe, he said: ''The Vatican has never, ever accepted responsibility for clerical sexual abuse at all. Never. John Paul talked about his hurt. Benedict talked about his devastation. But the Vatican has never acknowledged that they've failed in their responsibility.'' While Benedict has said many things on the issue over the years, advocates for victims of abusive priests still rankle over his declaring in 2002 that ''I am personally convinced that the constant presence in the press of the sins of Catholic priests, especially in the United States, is a planned campaign.'' Regarding the longstanding policy of transferring abusive priests to other dioceses, O'Gorman said: ''This wasn't some passive benign failure. This was an active approach that was taken to these cases. In my view, there's a system at work in this, and the Vatican is at the heart of it.''
 A 2005 survey found that 34 percent of Irish Catholics attend Mass weekly, one of the higher percentages in Europe. But in 1973 the figure was 91 percent, so the decline is actually among the steepest in Europe. As far as O'Gorman is concerned, the connection between the church's handling of the sex-abuse issue and the drop-off in Mass attendance is direct: ''For the church to criticize secular society while at the same time not looking in any way at itself -- for most people this is a reason they turn away from it. There's a huge credibility problem, and I wonder if they're capable of recognizing how much their currency is devalued. They don't have any moral authority.''
 The sex-abuse issue is part of what Hans KA1/4ng calls ''the long-term structural problems of the church,'' most of all its hierarchical decision-making process, which has kept church leaders looking out for their own and which ensures a broad gulf between what the cardinals and the pope decree and the way most Catholics live. Like John Paul II, Benedict XVI has shown little interest in reforming some of the basic policies affecting the lives of ordinary Catholics. ''We can lament the rising divorce rate, but it's a reality,'' Pecklers said. ''On Sunday mornings, the people in the pews, in Europe or America, are very often divorced or gay or are using birth control. Or else they're not in the pews; they've left the church.'' As KA1/4ng wrote last year, ''For as long as the absolute primacy of Rome prevails, the pope will have most of Christianity against him.'' That may be too strong to apply to Catholics everywhere, but it seems to ring true for Western Europe. 
 Benedict may be right that the Catholic Church has a world-historic chance to transform Europe and bring about change. But the church's own strictures could work against that. The paradox may be that for all his stylistic softening as pope, Joseph Ratzinger's own labors through the decades, applying his life experience with such rigor to protecting and preserving the church, are precisely what prevent Europeans from reconnecting with their roots. ''Think of the silencing of theologians in recent decades,'' said Father Reese, the former editor of the Jesuit journal America. ''The suppression of discussion and debate. How certain issues become litmus tests for orthodoxy and loyalty. All of these make it very difficult to do the very thing Benedict wants. I wish him well. I want him to succeed. But it seems everything he has done in the past makes it much more difficult to do it.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Crowd Pleaser: Despite his professorial style, Pope Benedict often outdraws his more theatrical predecessor, John Paul II.
Community Spirit: Lay groups like the Community of Sant'Egidio are spreading in Europe. Here, a prayer service at the Basilica of Santa Maria in Trastevere, where it originated.
 Empty House: The numbers of both parishioners and seminarians are diminishing rapidly throughout much of Roman Catholic Europe. (Photographs by Paolo Pellegrin/Magnum, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RELIGION (89%); EASTER SEASON (71%); ROOFING MATERIALS (69%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (69%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (68%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAVARIA, GERMANY (94%) GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (91%); WESTERN EUROPE (77%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



174 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: The Industry's Critics Turn to Washington

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. HOLSTEIN

 BODY:
AFTER the Enron and WorldCom meltdowns, many American investors were outraged. They demanded change -- and they got it, in the form of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and new directives issued by the major stock exchanges. 
 Henceforth, publicly traded companies would have to impose new internal financial controls to guard against fraud. Chief executives and chief financial officers would personally sign off on the truthfulness of their companies' financial results, at the risk of criminal penalties. And boards would have to include many more directors who were independent of management.
A similar movement for change has been testing its strength in the mutual fund industry, which, critics say, would benefit from more checks and balances to protect the interests of investors.
 A fundamental problem for mutual funds has been conflicts of interest at the top, in this view. One issue is whether funds' boards should have chairmen who are independent of the management, or advisory, firms that actually manage investors' money. In some cases the chairman of a mutual fund board owns the management and subadviser firms or has deep connections with them. 
 At Fidelity, for example, Edward C. Johnson III, known as Ned, heads the Fidelity Management and Research Company, the investment adviser to approximately 300 Fidelity mutual funds, at the same time that he is chairman of the board that oversees the funds. Similar arrangements exist at other fund companies.
 The concern among critics about nonindependent chairmen is that their jobs on a mutual fund board center on hiring and firing management firms and deciding how much investor money to spend to compensate those firms. Investors may be denied a higher rate of return if boards spend too much on advisers. 
 ''I'm sure he knows his business very well, but there are inherent conflicts between Ned Johnson running the fund board and the management company,'' said Laura Pavlenko Lutton, senior mutual fund analyst at Morningstar, the mutual fund rating company based in Chicago. ''He's not going to fire the management company that he and his family owns.'' 
 Fidelity declined to make Mr. Johnson available for comment, but a spokesman said that the proportion of Fidelity board members who are independent exceeds 75 percent -- the minimum percentage that critics are demanding.
 What prompted the latest round in the war of words between the mutual fund industry and its critics -- spearheaded by Morningstar, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and consumer rights groups -- was the Securities and Exchange Commission's call in December for comments by March 2 on the issue of independent chairmen. Some supporters of an independent-chairman rule sense that there may be an opening on the issue because of Democratic gains in Congress.
 ''Having Barney Frank as chairman of the House Financial Services Committee will give shareholders more support,'' said Richard L. Trumka, secretary-treasurer of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. in Washington. ''With the changing Congress, there was a change in dynamic toward the shareholder and away from the established people at the mutual funds.'' 
 Representative Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat, has oversight responsibilities for the S.E.C., which is headed by Christopher Cox, a former Republican colleague in the House.
 Whether the S.E.C. will next hold hearings or will propose a new rule is not known. ''The staff is reviewing the comments received,'' said John D. Heine, an agency spokesman.
 Mr. Trumka says he believes that the S.E.C. will take some type of action. ''They're not in the business of wasting everyone's time,'' he said. ''If they were not interested in issuing a rule, they wouldn't have gone through all this.''
 The A.F.L.-C.I.O. says it has a huge stake in how mutual funds are managed: its own pension funds hold $400 billion in assets, and union members as a whole participate in pension plans with $5 trillion in assets. Tens of millions of other Americans also own mutual funds, either directly or through their 401(k) plans or individual retirement accounts.
 The mutual fund industry, represented by the Investment Company Institute, also based in Washington, argues that 80 percent of mutual funds have boards on which at least 75 percent of members are independent. It says significant progress has been made in cleaning up the industry, and that any further edicts from the S.E.C. would raise the cost of managing the boards and thus hurt investors' returns.
 ''We don't think an independent chairman is necessarily a bad idea,'' said Paul Schott Stevens, president of the Investment Company Institute. ''What we think is that it should be left up to the people on those boards, the vast majority of whom are independent, to make that choice.''
 William H. Donaldson, Mr. Cox's immediate predecessor as S.E.C. chairman, sought twice to require that mutual funds have independent chairmen; each time the United States Chamber of Commerce brought legal action to block the move. Then a federal appeals court decided that the S.E.C. had not properly considered the economic impact of such a ruling.
 That court, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, in effect told the S.E.C. to study the matter more seriously. That resulted in the release last December of two S.E.C. studies, which the warring parties interpret differently.
 Industry critics say the studies support the view that the benefits would outweigh the increased costs of having more independent directors and chairmen -- more of whom would have travel expenses than insiders who presumably live closer to a company's headquarters. Critics say that more independent chairmen and boards would be tougher on the fee structure for management companies, meaning that investors would win.
 BUT defenders say the studies do not support the view that investors would gain. ''The S.E.C.'s own Office of Economic Analysis studies do not support the need for the rules,'' said Mr. Stevens of the mutual fund association. ''We believe they should conclude this without any further action.''
 Moreover, Mr. Stevens argues that investors do not care whether the chairmen of their mutual funds are independent. The mutual fund group paid an independent research firm in 2006 to interview 737 randomly selected fund investors and found that just 15 percent of them cared about ''information about the fund's board of directors.'' The greatest percentage, 74 percent, cared about ''the fund's fees and expenses.'' 
 Mr. Trumka of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., however, disputes the notion that investors do not worry whether board chairmen are independent. ''This is one of the best-kept secrets,'' he said. ''When we tell people about the facts, they are universally concerned.''
 Whether the S.E.C. will be concerned enough to act may ultimately depend on Mr. Cox. He has displayed some grass-roots fervor -- for example, in seeking to make it easier for investors to obtain company financial information via computer. If he supports the concept of independent chairmen, he would have to broker a deal with fellow commissioners.
 One of them, Paul S. Atkins, a Republican like Mr. Cox, recently gave a speech stressing the economic costs of imposing a requirement for an independent chairman; he is considered solidly against the idea. Another Republican commissioner, Kathleen L. Casey, is relatively new; her views on the subject are not known. Two Democratic commissioners, Roel C. Campos and Annette L. Nazareth, are considered likely to back an independent-chairman rule.
 Because Mr. Cox has tried to avoid divisive 3-to-2 votes, he would have to devise a solution that Ms. Casey would find palatable. That might set the stage for a vote of 4 to 1, leaving only Mr. Atkins in opposition. But because the industry and its critics have turned up the volume of their debate, it may take every bit of Mr. Cox's deal-making savvy to avoid a political backlash from one camp or the other.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Clockwise from top left: Edward C. Johnson III of Fidelity, Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, Christopher Cox of the Securities and Exchange Commission and Richard L. Trumka of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. (Photo by Ken Cedeno/Bloomberg News)
(Photo by Chitose Suzuki/Associated Press)
(Photo by Chris Kleponis/Bloomberg News)
 (Photo by Jay Mallin/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (89%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FMR CORP (94%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (59%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER COX (72%); BARNEY FRANK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



175 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 4-08-07: ON LANGUAGE; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Existential

BYLINE: By William Safire

 BODY:
''The threat that's represented by the extreme elements of Islam on a global basis now,'' Vice President Dick Cheney told Newsweek, is ''a problem that I think will occupy our successors maybe for two or three or four administrations to come. It is an existential conflict.'
He has used that word before, as has his daughter Liz, in a Washington Post op-ed column. Jan Freeman noted in The Boston Globe that Bill Frist, Senate majority leader in 2005, called bioterror ''the greatest existential threat''; also, Prime Minister Tony Blair told Britons the year before that the global threat ''is real and existential,'' and two years before that Condoleezza Rice warned of terrorism's ''existential threat.'' Taken together, suggested Freeman, ''maybe they're hoping that 'existential conflict' sounds more profound and meaningful, given its philosophical associations, than 'death struggle' or 'fight for survival.' '' 
 That resonance of the word in the field of philosophy also caused some puzzlement to Robert Walsh in e-mail land, who sends me this query: ''I thought existential had something to do with the need to find personal meaning in existence, because there is no God or we aren't sure. Now it is being applied to issues like global warming and terrorist attacks that threaten the very existence of our country, planet, culture. Is it worth a look in On Language?''
 Yes, because the profoundly serious word has now developed two quite different meanings, plus a third of special interest to word mavens. Start with the geopolitical sense:
 Existence is a state of being -- in the specific sense most important to us, of ''being alive.'' As noted in The Globe, weeks after the 9/11 attacks I wrote in this space that ''suicide hijackers and bombers do not pose what is coolly called an existential threat to -- that is, a danger to the very existence of -- the United States. . . . Terror-sponsoring states use these human missiles to implant that debilitating dread in individual American minds.'' (Hold the thought about the word dread.)
 What, then, is an existential conflict? Prof. Geoffrey Nunberg, a University of California linguist and the author of a new book, ''Talking Right,'' tracks the political use of the phrase to a 1960 review by the Rand Corporation's Paul Kecskemeti: ''existential conflicts such as duels and wars.'' The Harvard psychologist Herbert Kelman noted in 1999, ''For parties engaged in an existential conflict, such as that between Israelis and Palestinians,'' the parties fear ''ultimately losing everything, including their national identity and national existence.'' When Iran's president talks of ''wiping Israel off the map'' and makes no secret of nuclear ambitions, it is hard not to define that as an existential threat.
 Describing a conflict as existential, says Max Boot at the Council on Foreign Relations, ''is done for emphasis -- a way of saying this is a 'really really' important conflict that threatens substantially our peaceful existence. This is meant to distinguish it from what are sometimes called 'wars of choice' . . . almost all U.S. wars except for the Civil War and the War of Independence have been 'wars of choice' that did not threaten our existence.'' 
 Literally, then, nuclear or biological attacks killing tens of millions would not end the life of the U.S. -- but figuratively, they would end the existence of the way of life of its remaining citizens. If you look at Iraq, Afghanistan and African wars as local or civil wars, they are existential to only the people and nations therein; contrariwise, if you look at them as fronts in a global war against a growing terrorist threat, then such war can be defined as part of an existential conflict. 
 Now to the cheerful philosophy of existentialism, which Walsh summed up as ''there is no God or we're not sure.'' In 1846, the Dane Soren Kierkegaard set forth Existents-Forhold, holding that the need to make painful ethical decisions was the source of mankind's dread and despair; that man was solitary, existing in isolation. The fact of being totally free -- therefore, uniquely responsible -- scares us in the most profound way, requiring a ''leap of faith'' to find God.
 Friedrich Nietzsche later worked it over into his God-is-dead nihilism. Jean-Paul Sartre in the 1940s retained that atheism but stressed that the sources of dread -- the key word in existentialism -- were our denials of personal responsibility, our failure to fight for ourselves in a hostile universe and our craven flight from ''inescapable freedom'' (that last is a great oxymoron). The existential way to live was to ''stand as if on a trap door'' that might spring open at any moment.
 I have compressed great gobs of heavy theo-thinking into two impenetrable paragraphs because this is a language column and I want to make a pass at existential forms in linguistics. 
 Sometimes we want to grab the reader by the throat by putting the subject of the sentence right up front. I am tempted to do this many times. Now let's take that italicized sentence and soften it a little by putting a ''dummy subject'' up in front; that will help the reader ease into the whole proposition in the sentence and not just get hit in the kisser with the arrogant opening ''I.'' Here goes: There are many times that I am tempted to do this.
 That's an existential sentence, beginning with an unstressed there, followed by a verb tense of to be, showing that temptation exists. It's gentle; nice for a change of pace, but too many uses of dummy subjects like ''there are, one finds, we have'' take the writer down the primrose path of dull dalliance. As the reader, you may disagree; you may even use the singular there's to introduce a plural noun: ''There's guys out there who make that mistake allatime.'' If so, you are not isolated in existentialism's hostile universe. Nor is grammatical dispute an existential conflict.

GRAPHIC: Drawing: Lettering by Seth Ferris 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); RELIGION (78%); LINGUISTICS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); BOMBINGS (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); PHILOSOPHY (72%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (70%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (69%); HIJACKING (69%); WRITERS (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: RAND CORP (61%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (61%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (73%); TONY BLAIR (54%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



176 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: JACKSON HEIGHTS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: Making the Cut: A Matter of Interpretation

BYLINE: By EMILY BRADY

 BODY:
During Semana Santa, the Holy Week before Easter, it is customary among Latin American Catholics to refrain from eating red meat in favor of fish. Even so, the carnicerias, or butcher shops, of Jackson Heights, Queens, were bustling last week with Hispanic customers tempted by glossy lobes of liver and super-thin slices of top round steak. 
 The carnicerias, where meat is carved and sold just as it is in the old country, are a sign of a year-round culinary tradition, as are the empanadas and roast chicken brought by the Colombians, Argentines and other Latin American immigrants in the area. But they are a tradition becoming increasingly difficult to maintain. Butchers who are skilled in satisfying the preferences of their pan-Latin clientele are hard to find because of competition for their small numbers.
 On 37th Avenue, the strip where these butcher shops are clustered, Fernando Gomez, the owner of the popular Carniceria Hispanoamericana near 89th Street, says it can take months to find qualified replacements for the 10 employees who buzz behind the meat counter in brightly colored baseball caps. 
 ''Sometimes I have to wait a month or two or even three to find someone,'' said Mr. Gomez, a 52-year-old Colombian, who wore a white coat spattered with blood. 
 At Mr. Gomez's shop, customers line up in front of a glass counter that spans the length of the store and displays beef hearts, pigs' feet, ox tails, slippery-looking strands of intestines and spongy sheets of stomach lining.
 To serve these customers, a Latino butcher not only needs to know how to carve an animal. He must also interpret what the customer really wants. When an Argentine asks for ''peceto,'' a Colombian ''muchacho'' and a Brazilian ''lagarto,'' they are all asking for the same piece of meat: the beef eye of round, better known to English speakers as pot roast.
 When qualified butchers aren't available, Mr. Gomez must train new employees from scratch. So must Jamie Salazar, a 44-year-old Colombian who owns La Boina Roja butcher shop and steak house on 37th Avenue at 82nd Street.
 ''When a person doesn't know anything, it's hard,'' Mr. Salazar said. ''The first thing you have to teach them is not to cut off their fingers.''
 Keeping skilled employees is another challenge. At the Argentine-operated Don Francisco Butcher and Deli, on 37th Avenue at 85th Street, Alejandro Cantagallo, one of the owners, said his employees often migrate to better paying jobs at supermarkets once they have been trained. 
 For him, the scarcity of skilled butchers is a sure sign that his profession is dying. 
 ''Butchers are going the way of shoemakers,'' said Mr. Cantagallo, 28. ''We're essentially becoming dinosaurs.'' EMILY BRADY

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fernando Gomez at the Carniceria Hispanoamericana. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); MEAT STORES (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); EASTER SEASON (78%); RELIGION (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (72%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (67%); MAMMALS (52%) Meat; Hispanic-Americans

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (70%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (70%)

PERSON: Emily Brady

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) LATIN AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ARGENTINA (79%) New York City; Jackson Heights (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



177 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: For the Chief Justice, a Dissent and a Line in the Sand

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
WHEN the Supreme Court ordered the Bush administration last week to take global warming seriously, the headlines the decision generated were well deserved. This was a major ruling, likely to help shape an important policy debate.
 It may be heresy, then, to suggest that the court's directive to the Environmental Protection Agency was not necessarily the most important part of the decision.
Well after the debate over climate change moves to other forums -- as it promptly did in the days following the decision -- the case is likely to be remembered for two other reasons. 
 One is how the 5-to-4 majority widened access to the federal courts, reinvigorating the doctrine of environmental standing by giving a surprising new twist to the court's long-running debate over states' rights. The other is how vigorously Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. expressed his displeasure at that development. His 15-page dissenting opinion, his first of the term, served as a declaration of his deepest jurisprudential beliefs and highest priorities. It thus offered the most revealing portrait in the 18-month history of the Roberts court of the new chief justice at work.
 In interviews and public appearances, Chief Justice Roberts has set a new standard for visibility, and the portrait of the chief justice as an avatar of a new era of consensus on a divided court has gained considerable currency in articles and even books. 
 This case was a rude reminder that his careful self-presentation comes with a price. He is no more likely than any other justice to yield on what he regards as a matter of principle. But the raised expectation of consensus magnifies a defeat like this one: his consensus project lost as well.
 That Chief Justice Roberts cast a dissenting vote in Massachusetts v. Environmental Protection Agency was no great surprise. He had advocated a narrow view of standing, particularly in environmental cases, since his days as a lawyer in the Reagan administration. 
 Fourteen years ago, as a lawyer in private practice, he published an article in The Duke Law Journal praising a 1992 opinion by Justice Antonin Scalia that cut back sharply on the ability of environmental groups to challenge government policies in federal court. (Dissenting from that decision, Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife, Justices Harry A. Blackmun and Sandra Day O'Connor declared that they could not ''join the court on what amounts to a slash-and-burn expedition through the law of environmental standing.'')
 A relaxed doctrine of standing, the future chief justice warned in his 1993 article, ''would transform the courts into ombudsmen of the administrative bureaucracy, a role for which they are ill-suited both institutionally and as a matter of democratic theory.'' And in his dissenting opinion last week, he quoted from the Scalia opinion in arguing that ''the redress of grievances of the sort at issue here 'is the function of Congress and the chief executive,' not the federal courts.'' 
 Massachusetts should not have been permitted to proceed with its lawsuit against the federal agency, the chief justice argued, because it met none of the three essential ingredients for standing: an actual injury; proof that the injury was due to something the defendant did or failed to do; and proof that the injury would be redressed if the defendant did as the plaintiff asked. 
 In the majority opinion, Justice John Paul Stevens found five votes for the conclusion that Massachusetts not only met all three tests but was also entitled to special deference for its claim to standing because of its status as a sovereign state. Invoking no modern precedent -- because there was none -- to support this new theory of states' rights, Justice Stevens deftly turned the court's federalism revolution, which he has long opposed, on its head and provoked an objection from the chief justice. States have ''no special rights or status'' when it comes to standing, Chief Justice Roberts said.
 It was his vehemence rather than his dissenting vote that was the surprise. This was no dry document written by a law clerk. The chief justice was spending capital and speaking in his own voice. The opinion was reminiscent of many by his mentor, William H. Rehnquist, for whom he clerked. Standing was a big issue back then, and Associate Justice Rehnquist dissented from decisions that interpreted the doctrine generously. One was a case called United States v. Students Challenging Regulatory Agency Procedures, or SCRAP.
 Five law students sued the Interstate Commerce Commission for approving a railroad rate increase that they said would cause them ''economic, recreational and aesthetic harm'' by leading to air pollution and environmental degradation. That claim was sufficient to establish injury for the purposes of standing, the majority said. Justice Rehnquist joined a dissenting opinion that warned that ''we are well on our way to permitting citizens at large to litigate any decisions of the government which fall in an area of interest to them and with which they disagree.''
 Justice Scalia's decision in the 1992 Defenders of Wildlife case had seemingly brought SCRAP to an end. But now, according to Chief Justice Roberts, SCRAP is back. ''Today's decision is SCRAP for a new generation,'' he said mournfully near the end of his dissent.
 So is it fair to conclude that in this case, Chief Justice Roberts is Rehnquist redux? Not quite.
 In 1976, four years into the Rehnquist tenure, Professor David L. Shapiro of Harvard Law School wrote a famous article that boiled the justice's philosophy down to three premises: (1) in a case between the individual and the government, the government wins; (2) in a case between state and federal authority, the states win; and (3) when there is a question about whether a federal court has jurisdiction to decide a case (like whether the plaintiff had standing), the question should be resolved against jurisdiction (or against standing).
 Those observations held up remarkably well during Justice Rehnquist's tenure. But last week's case placed the second and third propositions in irreconcilable conflict: the state could win only if it had standing. 
 Never having faced such a case, William Rehnquist did not have to choose between principles. For Chief Justice Roberts, limiting standing was more important than deference to the states, a choice rich with implications as the Roberts court continues to reveal itself.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Jason Reed/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); LAWYERS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (73%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (72%) Weather; Carbon Dioxide; Global Warming; Decisions and Verdicts; States (US); Law and Legislation; Weather

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%) Environmental Protection Agency; Supreme Court (US)

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (79%); ANTONIN SCALIA (58%) Linda Greenhouse; George W (Pres) Bush; John G Jr (Chief Justice) Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



178 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1531 words

HEADLINE: Sunday in the Market With McCain

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
JOHN McCAIN'S April Fools' Day stroll through Baghdad's Shorja market last weekend was instantly acclaimed as a classic political pratfall. Protected by more than a hundred American soldiers, three Black Hawk helicopters, two Apache gunships and a bulletproof vest, the senator extolled the ''progress'' and ''good news'' in Iraq. Befitting this loopy brand of comedy -- reminiscent of ''Wedding Crashers,'' in which Mr. McCain gamely made a cameo appearance -- the star had a crackerjack cast of supporting buffoons: Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, who told reporters ''I bought five rugs for five bucks!,'' and Representative Mike Pence of Indiana, who likened the scene to ''a normal outdoor market in Indiana in the summertime.'' 
 Five rugs for five bucks: boy, we've really got that Iraq economy up and running now! No wonder the McCain show was quickly dubbed ''McCain's Mission Accomplished'' and ''McCain's Dukakis-in-the-Tank Photo Op.'' But at a certain point the laughter curdled. Reporters rudely pointed out there were 60-plus casualties in this market from one February attack alone and that six Americans were killed in the Baghdad environs on the day of his visit. ''Your heart goes out to just the typical Iraqi because they can't have that kind of entourage,'' said Kyra Phillips of CNN. The day after Mr. McCain's stroll, The Times of London reported that 21 of the Shorja market's merchants and workers were ambushed and murdered.
The political press has stepped up its sotto voce deathwatch on the McCain presidential campaign ever since, a drumbeat enhanced by last week's announcement of Mr. McCain's third-place finish in the Republican field's fund-raising sweepstakes. (He is scheduled to restate his commitment to the race on ''60 Minutes'' tonight.) But his campaign was sagging well before he went to Baghdad. In retrospect, his disastrous trip may be less significant as yet another downturn in a faltering presidential candidacy than as a turning point in hastening the inevitable American exit from Iraq.
 Mr. McCain is no Michael Dukakis. Unlike the 1988 Democratic standard-bearer, who was trying to counter accusations that he was weak on national defense, the Arizona senator has more military cred than any current presidential aspirant, let alone the current president. Every American knows that Mr. McCain is a genuine hero who survived torture during more than five years of captivity at the Hanoi Hilton. That's why when he squandered that credibility on an embarrassing propaganda stunt, he didn't hurt only himself but also inflicted collateral damage on lesser Washington mortals who still claim that the ''surge'' can bring ''victory'' in Iraq. 
 It can't be lost on those dwindling die-hards, particularly those on the 2008 ballot, that if defending the indefensible can reduce even a politician of Mr. McCain's heroic stature to that of Dukakis-in-the-tank, they have nowhere to go but down. They'll cut and run soon enough. For starters, just watch as Mr. McCain's G.O.P. presidential rivals add more caveats to their support for the administration's Iraq policy. Already, in a Tuesday interview on ''Good Morning America,'' Mitt Romney inched toward concrete ''timetables and milestones'' for Iraq, with the nonsensical proviso they shouldn't be published ''for the enemy.'' 
 As if to confirm we're in the last throes, President Bush threw any remaining caution to the winds during his news conference in the Rose Garden that same morning. Almost everything he said was patently misleading or an outright lie, a sure sign of a leader so entombed in his bunker (he couldn't even emerge for the Washington Nationals' ceremonial first pitch last week) that he feels he has nothing left to lose. 
 Incredibly, he chided his adversaries on the Hill for going on vacation just as he was heading off for his own vacation in Crawford. Then he attacked Congress for taking 57 days to ''pass emergency funds for our troops'' even though the previous, Republican-led Congress took 119 days on the same bill in 2006. He ridiculed the House bill for ''pork and other spending that has nothing to do with the war,'' though last year's war-spending bill was also larded with unrelated pork, from Congressional efforts to add agricultural subsidies to the president's own request for money for bird-flu preparation.
 Mr. Bush's claim that military equipment would be shortchanged if he couldn't sign a spending bill by mid-April was contradicted by not one but two government agencies. A Government Accountability Office report faulted poor Pentagon planning for endemic existing equipment shortages in the National Guard. The Congressional Research Service found that the Pentagon could pay for the war until well into July. Since by that point we'll already be on the threshold of our own commanders' late-summer deadline for judging the surge, what's the crisis? 
 The president then ratcheted up his habitual exploitation of the suffering of the troops and their families -- a button he had pushed five days earlier when making his six-weeks-tardy visit to pose for photos at scandal-ridden Walter Reed. ''Congress's failure to fund our troops on the front lines will mean that some of our military families could wait longer for their loved ones to return from the front lines,'' he said. ''And others could see their loved ones headed back to the war sooner than they need to.'' 
 His own failures had already foreordained exactly these grim results. Only the day before this news conference, the Pentagon said that the first unit tossed into the Baghdad surge would stay in Iraq a full year rather than the expected nine months, and that three other units had been ordered back there without the usual yearlong stay at home. By week's end, we would learn the story of the suspected friendly-fire death of 18-year-old Pvt. Matthew Zeimer, just two hours after assuming his first combat post. He had been among those who had been shipped to war with a vastly stripped-down training regimen, 10 days instead of four weeks, forced by the relentless need for new troops in Iraq. 
 Meanwhile the Iraqi ''democracy'' that Mr. Zeimer died for was given yet another free pass. Mr. Bush applauded the Iraqi government for ''working on an oil law,'' though it languishes in Parliament, and for having named a commander for its Baghdad troops. Much of this was a replay of Mr. Bush's sunny Rose Garden news conference in June, only then he claimed Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki was taking charge of Baghdad security on his own. Now it's not even clear whom the newly named Iraqi commander is commanding. The number of military operations with Iraqis in the lead is falling, not rising, according to the Pentagon. Even as the administration claims that Iraqis are leading the Baghdad crackdown, American military losses were double those of the Iraqi Army in March. 
 Mr. Bush or anyone else who sees progress in the surge is correct only in the most literal and temporary sense. Yes, an influx of American troops is depressing some Baghdad violence. But any falloff in the capital is being offset by increased violence in the rest of the country; the civilian death toll rose 15 percent from February to March. Mosul, which was supposedly secured in 2003 by the current American commander in Iraq, Gen. David Petraeus, is now a safe haven for terrorists, according to an Iraqi government spokesman. The once-pacified Tal Afar, which Mr. Bush declared ''a free city that gives reason for hope for a free Iraq'' in 2006, is a cauldron of bloodshed.
 If Baghdad isn't going to repeat Tal Afar's history, we will have to send many more American troops than promised and keep them there until Mr. Maliki presides over a stable coalition government providing its own security. Hell is more likely to freeze over first. Yet if American troops don't start to leave far sooner than that -- by the beginning of next year, according to the retired general and sometime White House consultant Barry McCaffrey -- the American Army will start to unravel. The National Guard, whose own new involuntary deployments to Iraq were uncovered last week by NBC News, can't ride to the rescue indefinitely.
 The center will not hold, no matter what happens in the Washington standoff over war funding. Surely no one understands better than Mr. McCain that American lives are being wasted in the war's escalation. That is what he said on David Letterman's show in an unguarded moment some five weeks ago -- though he recanted the word wasted after taking flak the morning after. 
 Like his Letterman gaffe, Mr. McCain's ludicrous market stunt was at least in the tradition of his old brand of straight talk, in that it revealed the truth, however unintentionally. But many more have watched the constantly recycled and ridiculed spectacle of his ''safe'' walk in Baghdad than heard him on a late-night talk show. This incident has the staying power of the Howard Dean scream. Should it speed America's disengagement from Iraq, what looks today like John McCain's farcical act of political suicide may some day loom large as a patriot's final act of sacrifice for his country.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Barry Blitt) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); MURDER (70%); SWEEPSTAKES (67%); HELICOPTERS (57%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2008

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (92%); MIKE PENCE (79%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (58%); FRANK RICH (58%) Frank Rich; John S (Sen) Mccain

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) INDIANA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (95%) Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



179 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; STATEHOUSE JOURNAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: A Utah Dynasty Is Divided Over a Presidential Preference

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: SALT LAKE CITY, April 4 

 BODY:
Jon M. Huntsman Sr., a self-made billionaire, philanthropist, and patriarch of one of Utah's most powerful families, waxes philosophic in the letters he has written urging people to support former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts as the Republican nominee for president. ''A defining moment for the future of our great country,'' Mr. Huntsman calls the 2008 election.
 Mr. Huntsman's son, Jon M. Huntsman Jr., Utah's wildly popular governor, with a 77 percent approval rating in one recent poll, uses strikingly similar language in supporting Senator John McCain of Arizona.
''John McCain is a remarkable American hero who has experienced war, and in the post-9/11 period, what better kind of leader could we have than that?'' Governor Huntsman, a Republican, said in an interview. ''If ever there was a time in our history when you need someone with his background, it would be now.'' 
 Elections? They come and go. But fathers and sons and dynasties are the stuff real dramas are made of, and in Utah the split between Mr. Huntsman Sr. and Mr. Huntsman Jr. has become the simmering back story of the campaign season. 
 ''It does have a lot of people scratching their heads,'' said LaVarr Webb, a Republican political consultant in Salt Lake. 
 By most measures, Governor Huntsman, who is 47 and two years into his first term, is the odd man out in cheering for Mr. McCain, at least in this state. Mr. Romney's father, George, the automobile industry executive and governor of Michigan, partly grew up here. Mitt Romney, many people here say, saved the scandal-plagued 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake. The Romneys, like the Huntsmans, are Mormon in a state where membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints dominates the political culture.
 ''I refer to him as Utah's adopted son,'' said Lt. Gov. Gary R. Herbert, a Romney supporter whose receptionist's desk is emblazoned with a commonly seen bumper sticker here that says, ''I'm Smitten,'' with a line under the letters, ''Mitt.'' 
 A poll last November by Dan Jones & Associates, a local polling firm, said Mr. Romney was supported by 44 percent of the state's residents, compared with 15 percent for Mr. McCain, who came in second. The poll of 416 registered voters had a margin of error of 5 percent.
 Some residents, however they feel about the presidential race, said their opinion of the governor had gone up if only because he was tacking against such strong prevailing winds. 
 ''I think he's shown some real independence,'' said Beth Whitsett, a 60-year-old lawyer and self-described ''card-carrying Democrat.'' Ms. Whitsett said she favored Senator Barack Obama of Illinois in his bid for the Democratic nomination but liked her governor more than ever. ''I was proud of his backbone.''
 Others said the McCain endorsement seemed calculated if not quite Oedipal, a continuation of the younger Mr. Huntsman's disengagement from the shadow of his family, an effort that began during the race for governor in 2004, when the father began to recede from public view as the son stepped forward.
 Mr. Huntsman senior, who is 69, is still running the giant specialty chemical company he founded, the Huntsman Corporation, and still very involved in philanthropy, especially the Huntsman Cancer Institute, a research and treatment center at the University of Utah. But he rarely makes news these days, political experts here say, and he declined to be interviewed for this article. A spokesman for Mr. Romney, Kevin Madden, also declined to comment.
 Governor Huntsman, who gave an interview over a lunch of spicy pork tacos from a downtown street vendor where he eats several times a week, said that he and his father had disagreed in ''polite respect,'' and that they rarely talked about politics anyway.
 But he said that while his support for Mr. McCain was heartfelt and personal, Utah's larger, longer-term interest affected his endorsement decision. 
 The West, he said, is an emerging political force that is rising in economic and demographic clout and expressing a unique view that he thinks both parties will have to respond to. He praised moderate politicians of both parties, especially Gov. Brian Schweitzer in Montana and Gov. Bill Richardson in New Mexico, both Democrats, as leaders who have caught the new Western spirit. Mr. Richardson is seeking his party's nomination for president. 
 Mr. McCain, Governor Huntsman said, also plans to make Utah a regional hub for the campaign -- covering eight or nine states in the interior West -- something he said had never happened to Utah in a presidential election.
 Western money is flowing, too. Of the $20 million raised by the Romney campaign since January, a significant part came from Utah, at least partly through the efforts of the elder Mr. Huntsman.
 According to the Huntsman Cancer Institute 2006 annual report and public campaign records, the list of givers to Huntsman causes and Romney supporters overlaps extensively. It includes sports stars like the former Utah Jazz great Karl Malone -- who, along with his wife, Kay, donated at least $100,000 to the Huntsman Institute; the Malones also gave $5,000 last year to Mr. Romney through his Commonwealth Political Action Committee. And the family of J. Willard Marriott Jr., the wealthy hotelier and fellow Mormon, has given substantially to the Huntsman institute and to Mr. Romney.
 Mr. Marriott said in a telephone interview that his involvement with Huntsman causes and his backing of Mr. Romney were coincidental. 
 ''I've known Mitt all his life,'' he said. ''He is one of the most capable people I've ever run across.''
 Governor Huntsman said that because so many eyes were on his state now because of Mr. Romney, part of his message of endorsement was that Utah is more politically diverse than outsiders might think. He also said it is never wise to put all of one's eggs in a single basket.
 ''Either man will have friends in Utah,'' he said. ''My position is that McCain is the best. But if an outgrowth of that is the fact that we're able to hedge our bets in protecting the state's interests longer term, that would be an additional benefit.''
 Sue Odette, for one, remains unimpressed. Ms. Odette, 39, who works in advertising sales for a Salt Lake City television station, said she thought Mr. Romney ''says what he's told to say,'' and that Governor Huntsman was just another politician too.
 ''I'm looking for sincerity,'' said Ms. Odette, who described herself as a political independent.
 She said she was leaning toward Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former mayor of New York who is also seeking the Republican nomination. 
 ''I like people who can hold it together under pressure,'' she said, ''and I've seen Giuliani under pressure after 9/11.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Jon M. Huntsman Jr. of Utah, at a favorite lunch spot in Salt Lake City, supports John McCain's presidential campaign. His father, the industrialist Jon M. Huntsman Sr., has endorsed Mitt Romney. (Photo by Jeffrey D. Allred for The New York Times ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); RELIGION (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); MEN (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PHILANTHROPY (73%); WINTER SPORTS (63%); LAWYERS (60%); WINTER OLYMPICS (50%); OLYMPICS (50%) Presidential Election of 2008; Mormons (Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints); Election Issues; Endorsements

ORGANIZATION: THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS (84%)

PERSON: JON HUNTSMAN (93%); MITT ROMNEY (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); GARY HERBERT (59%) Kirk Johnson; Mitt Romney; John (Sen) Mccain; Jon M Sr Huntsman; Jon M Jr (Gov) Huntsman

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%) UTAH, USA (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



180 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: Meetings Are Part Revival, Part Rally, but All Sharpton

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
On a rather small, anonymous stage in Harlem, in an old building a few doors down from a Laundromat and a Dunkin' Donuts, something unexpected happens to the Rev. Al Sharpton's sizable and nationally known persona. It shrinks accordingly.
 Every Saturday morning, Mr. Sharpton opens the doors of his National Action Network's headquarters in Harlem for an ''action rally.'' The meetings are something more than a rally -- part radio show, church service, comedy revue, civil rights demonstration, town hall meeting and fund-raising drive. The rallies are broadcast live on WLIB-AM, the city's first black-owned radio station.
On most Saturdays, the so-called House of Justice on West 145th Street can feel as casual as the International House of Pancakes 10 blocks south. Anyone can walk in and take a seat. The words etched onto the large tinted window at the entrance, facing 145th Street, read not House of Justice or National Action Network but Diamond Gym, the storefront's former occupant, which explains why the walls are lined with mirrors. 
 Yesterday, in a fast-paced 90 minutes before a crowd of fewer than 100 people, Mr. Sharpton led a drummer and a pianist through a gospel song (''Sing it like you mean it,'' he sang into the microphone), criticized the federal government's slow pace of rebuilding in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina and paid tribute to the sacrifices of both Jesus Christ and the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
 He happened also to make national news, which sometimes happens at his rallies, too. He called for the firing of Don Imus, the syndicated radio host, after Mr. Imus referred on Wednesday to the students who play for the Rutgers University women's basketball team as ''nappy-headed ho's.''
 After the television cameras had left, Mr. Sharpton refocused on the nuts and bolts of his civil rights organization, signing up seven new members to the National Action Network. Then he taught an introductory class for new members.
 ''It gives him an energy that helps him and keeps him propelling along,'' said Michael A. Hardy, a lawyer, longtime friend of Mr. Sharpton's and the host of the radio show and rally. ''It is the tent that holds everyone in the movement, whether you're high profile and a celebrity, or a no-profile but important.'' 
 It is here on Saturdays that Mr. Sharpton pleads for donations for his network (''I need some more hundreds,'' he told the audience recently) and wades through unglamorous organizational housekeeping. 
 Mr. Sharpton has been holding Saturday rallies broadcast on the radio since 1991, when he founded the National Action Network. Some of those in the audience are network members who have been going to the rallies for years. They remember the auditorium of Public School 175, where the rallies were first held. They remember the speech the Rev. Jesse Jackson gave years ago, when he dubbed the network's headquarters the House of Justice. And they remember the Saturday, in July 2002, when Michael Jackson depicted Thomas D. Mottola, a record company executive, as the devil. 
 Yesterday, in two hard-backed chairs near the aisle, sat James and Sylvia Snead, a couple from Queens who have attended the Saturday rallies regularly since the early 1990s. When Mr. Snead was hospitalized months ago, he had a friend send him recordings of the rallies he missed. 
 Mr. Snead, 68, said people keep going to the rallies because they seek inspiration in overcoming the economic and social problems that African-Americans face. ''It gives them another week to go again, because it ain't easy in this world,'' said Mr. Snead, a retired union leader. ''I would say they need a mental cleansing after a week of struggling.''
 A couple rows back was James Lee Frazier Jr., a man from Queens who calls himself a ''celestial education consultant'' and who is writing a series of poems based on the acorn (he carries some in his pocket). Over there was a rally regular, Yosef A. A. ben-Jochannan, a renowned historian known as Dr. Ben who sits in a special chair with a red bow on top.
 In January 2003, a fire gutted the old headquarters at 125th Street and Madison Avenue, and after that the gatherings were at two other churches. The current headquarters has seen a flurry of activity since December, when the organization moved in. The current space has been a backdrop for news conferences in the aftermath of the Sean Bell shooting. Nicole Paultre Bell, Mr. Bell's fiancee, is a frequent guest; on Christmas Day, she served food to the needy.
 ''I don't care how many national TV shows I do, or how many big speeches I do, coming home on Saturday, you know you can't get up and sell hogwash to them,'' Mr. Sharpton said in an interview. ''You got to be real.''
 He sometimes gets corrected by the audience. Yesterday, he said in error that Mr. Imus had made his remark about the University of Tennessee players. He jokes with longtime supporters from the stage, gets people on their feet, talks frankly about his past. ''He comes across as the brother in the barber shop,'' said Owen Rogers, 53, a Harlem literary researcher often in the audience. 
 Yesterday morning, after a number of guests stood at the lectern, including Charlie King, acting executive director, who gave an update on the group's annual convention starting April 18, Mr. Hardy introduced Mr. Sharpton, ''the soul-seeker, the liberation-reacher, the people's preacher.'' 
 ''No justice,'' Mr. Sharpton called out. 
 ''No peace,'' came the response.
 There was no mistaking that this was the House of Sharpton. Seated in the audience, people's eyes are often drawn not to Mr. Sharpton, dressed yesterday in a matching, beige pin-striped shirt and pants, but to stage right, where a framed, close-up portrait of Mr. Sharpton hangs on the wall. One of the stage lights on the ceiling is aimed directly at it.
 Mr. Sharpton's address was at once humorous and serious, part of his strategy to infuse the rally with what he calls ''information, destination, inspiration.'' 
 On Mr. Imus, Mr. Sharpton said: ''Don Imus should be fired and taken off the airwaves. This is not about insensitivity, this is about the abusive, racist, sexist use of our federally regulated airwaves.'' 
 He spoke about the mother, whom he did not want to name, who came up to him at a march one day and told him she could not stand him. 
 ''She said, 'Every time you come on TV, I turn the channel. Loud-mouth Sharpton,' '' he told the audience. ''She said, 'But the night they called me from the hospital and told me the police had killed my son, all I could think of was how can I find Al Sharpton.' ''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael A. Hardy, a lawyer and host of a weekly radio show, applauded yesterday as Mr. Sharpton spoke.
 James Lee Frazier Jr. joined in singing a hymn yesterday at a rally in Harlem led by the Rev. Al Sharpton. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); FUNDRAISING (75%); RELIGION (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (75%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (74%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (70%); WOMEN (70%); CELEBRITIES (68%); HURRICANE KATRINA (64%); BASKETBALL (62%) Radio; Blacks; Radio

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (91%); INTERNATIONAL HOUSE OF PANCAKES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: National Action Network; Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey; Wlib (NYC Radio Station)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (91%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (91%)

PERSON: AL SHARPTON (93%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%) Al (Rev) Sharpton; Don Imus; Manny Fernandez

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



181 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: What G.E.'s Profit Says About The Planet

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
AS General Electric goes, so goes the world, more or less. 
 The size, worldwide reach and multiple business lines of this conglomerate allow its earnings statements to serve for some investment advisers as useful indicators of global economic conditions. 
When G.E. announces first-quarter results on Friday, they could show that the world goes pretty well, even if the American economy could be going better, said Richard Tortoriello, who covers the company for Standard & Poor's. He predicts 44 cents a share in operating profit.
 That would be the same as the average estimate of Wall Street analysts and a 10 percent improvement over the comparable figure reported for the first quarter of 2006. 
 It would probably put the company well ahead of the typical constituent of the S.& P. 500-stock index, too.
 After a long period of double-digit-percentage earnings growth for the index, the rate of growth has begun to decline. Stephen Biggar, director of American equity research at S.& P., expects a sharp deceleration in the first quarter.
 Earnings forecasts ''have gone pretty steadily downward,'' he noted. As it becomes harder to make a buck here, strength at G.E. would hint that there are richer pickings elsewhere.
 ''G.E. is a bellwether for the global economy,'' Mr. Tortoriello explained. ''It's a $160 billion company'' in revenue. ''That makes it bigger than some small countries out there. It's aligning its portfolio with big trends, like health care, aerospace, oil and gas, so it gives me a sense of what's going on globally.''
 The sense he expects to get from G.E.'s report is that the United States is not as big an engine of growth as it usually is, but that other countries are picking up the slack. Evidence from G.E. and its big industrial peers, like United Technologies and Boeing, suggests that ''good growth is continuing outside the U.S.''
 Sources of growth that G.E. may be tapping especially well include infrastructure development in emerging economies and corporate finance worldwide, he said.
 ''If we get a little bit weaker, the rest of the world can still hold on to that growth,'' Mr. Tortoriello predicted.DATA WATCH -- The economic calendar is fairly thin this week, with crucial reports clustered on Friday the 13th. 
 A Bloomberg News poll of economists foresees a 0.2 percent increase in March wholesale prices, excluding food and energy items.
 Other figures to be announced Friday include the trade deficit for February, which is estimated to have expanded to $60 billion from $59.1 billion in January, and the University of Michigan's initial reading of April consumer confidence; a dip to 87.5 from 88.4 is anticipated in the Bloomberg poll.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRENDS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); WHOLESALE PRICES (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); EQUITY RESEARCH (75%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (84%); BOEING CO (54%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (54%); BLOOMBERG LP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: General Electric Co

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (84%); GEC (LSE) (84%); GE (SWX) (84%); GE (NYSE) (84%); BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%); UTX (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: Conrad De Aenlle

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



182 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Arts, Briefly; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1192 words

BYLINE: Compiled by Lawrence Van Gelder

 BODY:
Imus Uproar Continues
 Calls for the dismissal of the syndicated radio host Don Imus continued over the weekend despite his apology for calling the players on the Rutgers University women's basketball team a bunch of ''nappy-headed ho's.'' Yesterday the Rev. DeForest B. Soaries Jr., senior pastor of the First Baptist Church of Lincoln Gardens in Somerset, N.J., and a former secretary of state of New Jersey, joined the chorus. At Easter services attended by C. Vivian Stringer, a parishioner who is the head coach of the Rutgers team, he called Mr. Imus's language ''vile and repulsive'' and said, ''At this point I see firing him as the only acceptable course of action.'' He added that if Mr. Imus, above, was not dismissed immediately, African-Americans and others outraged by his remarks should boycott WFAN, the New York outlet for his program, ''Imus in the Morning''; CBS Radio, which syndicates his show to more than 70 radio stations; and MSNBC, which carries a television simulcast of the show. 
On Saturday the Rev. Al Sharpton, who promised to picket WFAN unless Mr. Imus was fired within a week, said, ''I accept his apology, just as I want his bosses to accept his resignation.'' On Friday after Mr. Imus apologized on the air, WFAN, CBS and MSNBC condemned his original remarks. Mr. Sharpton, referring to the actor who used a racist epithet in a rant during a comedy routine last year, said: ''This is not some unemployed actor like Michael Richards. This is an established figure, allowed to use the airwaves for sexist and racist remarks.''Hispanics Seek Changes In Ken Burns Documentary
 A new documentary by Ken Burns, below, for PBS about World War II has come under fire from Hispanic leaders and veterans who contend that it slights Hispanic contributions to the war effort and are demanding changes, The Associated Press reported. Paula Kerger, the president and chief executive of PBS, met with leaders including the Hispanic caucus in Congress and has pledged to suggest solutions as early as this week. The 14-hour documentary, titled, ''The War,'' is to have its premiere in September. Another $23 Million For 'Blades of Glory'
 ''Blades of Glory'' and ''Meet the Robinsons'' maintained their grip on the top spots in the weekend movie box-office rankings yesterday, while three newcomers rounded out the top five, according to estimates by the tracking company Media by Numbers. ''Blades of Glory'' (Paramount), the ice-skating comedy starring Jon Heder and Will Ferrell (from left above), gathered $23 million for the No. 1 ranking and a total of $68.3 million in its second week in release. ''Meet the Robinsons'' (Buena Vista), the G-rated 3-D computer animated film about a bespectacled orphan, took in $17 million to reach $52.2 million in its second week. Leading the newcomers was the Ice Cube home-improvement comedy ''Are We Done Yet?'' (Sony), with $15 million, good for third place. Finishing fourth was the Robert Rodriguez-Quentin Tarantino tribute to trash cinema, ''Grindhouse'' (Weinstein/Dimension), with $11.5 million, followed by the Hilary Swank horror vehicle ''The Reaping'' (Warner Brothers), which sopped up $10.8 million.Jackie Chan TV Show Searches for Kung Fu Stars
 The action movie star Jackie Chan, who turned 53 on Saturday, is looking for some young blood. He has begun a Chinese television competition to find new film-worthy kung fu talent, The Associated Press reported. And, he said in Beijing, more than 100,000 people have already signed up. In English the title of the television show, running until October, is ''The Disciple.'' Jointly produced by Mr. Chan, above, and the Beijing TV Station, known as BTV, it is intended to yield 10 winners who will appear in a movie to be produced by Mr. Chan and released before the 2008 Olympics in Beijing, the organizers said. Many actors are good fighters, Mr. Chan said, but their style ''is not beautiful.'' So, he said, ''if you can incorporate dance with an ability to perform kung fu, that would be better.''Will Connery Keep Up With the Joneses?
 Sean Connery is a wanted man. George Lucas and Steven Spielberg are seeking to coax him out of retirement to play the father of Indiana Jones in the fourth film about the intrepid archaeologist, Variety.com reported. Mr. Connery, 76, right, who would be cast opposite Harrison Ford, 64, in a reprise of the father-son roles they played in the third film in the series, ''Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade'' (1989), has said only that he would consider a return if he likes the script. Mr. Connery's most recent film was ''The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen'' in 2003. The fourth Indiana Jones film, as yet untitled, is to be released by Paramount Pictures next year.At 40, 'Sgt. Pepper' Gets a Salute
 Rock bands including Oasis, the Killers and Kaiser Chiefs plan to celebrate the 40th anniversary of the Beatles' ''Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band'' by recording their own versions of its tracks, Agence France-Presse reported. With the Fratellis, Travis, Razorlight and James Morrison, they are making cover versions of the songs for a two-hour BBC radio broadcast on June 2. The original album, released on June 1, 1967, included songs like ''A Day in the Life,'' ''Lucy in the Sky With Diamonds,'' ''When I'm Sixty-Four'' and ''With a Little Help From My Friends.'' Geoff Emerick, the audio engineer who recorded ''Sgt. Pepper'' at the Abbey Road studios in London, will record the new versions using the same four-track equipment.Jailed Glam Rocker Wants Sentence Reduced
 The 1970's glam rocker Gary Glitter, imprisoned in Vietnam for sexually molesting two young girls, is hoping to reduce his punishment for a second time, Reuters reported. Gary Glitter, 62, whose real name is Paul Francis Gadd, was convicted last year and is not scheduled for release until August 2008, but his lawyer, Le Thanh Kinh, said he was planning to seek amnesty during celebrations of Vietnam's Liberation Day this month. The lawyer said the government had not yet announced an amnesty to mark the April 30 anniversary of the end of the Vietnam War but noted that such gestures were often made around such occasions. Mr. Glitter's three-year term was reduced by three months in a nationwide Lunar New Year amnesty in February.Major Monet Show Opens in Tokyo
 More than 600,000 visitors are expected at the new National Art Center in Tokyo before the close on July 2 of a major retrospective of the works of Claude Monet, who is adored in Japan, Agence France-Presse reported. ''Claude Monet and His Posterity,'' which opened over the weekend and was organized in collaboration with the Musee d'Orsay in Paris, includes nearly 100 works by Monet (1840-1926), an avid collector of Japanese woodcut prints who said Japan had inspired him to embark on a ''simplification of space.'' Besides Monet the exhibition includes dozens of artists influenced by him, from Seurat and Derain to Roy Lichtenstein. Opened in January, the National Art Center, designed by Kisho Kurokawa, has more space than any other museum in Japan but no permanent collection. It focuses on bringing exhibitions to Tokyo.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Melinda Sue Gordon/Paramount Pictures) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDIA SYNDICATION (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); DISMISSALS (89%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (86%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (78%); BASKETBALL (78%); WOMEN (77%); RACE & RACISM (73%); WINTER SPORTS (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); EASTER SEASON (71%); COMEDY FILMS (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); RESIGNATIONS (65%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (63%); WORLD WAR II (62%); CAUCUSES (60%); MOVIE REVENUES (60%); RANKINGS (60%); ICE SKATING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (91%)

PERSON: AL SHARPTON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2007



183 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: Paring Down a Drama to Basic Mortal Combat

BYLINE: By MELENA RYZIK

 BODY:
Two months ago, as the winners of the Laurence Olivier Awards, Britain's version of the Tonys, were being announced in a posh hotel ballroom in London, the playwright David Harrower, one of the nominees, was sitting in his local pub in Glasgow, downing Guinness. His competition in the best new play category was so stiff -- including ''Frost/Nixon'' by Peter Morgan (screenwriter of ''The Queen'') and ''Rock 'n' Roll'' by Tom Stoppard, the favorite -- that he didn't see the point in making the trip. 
 ''I didn't want to go down there, put on a suit, get drunk, get the suit crumpled and fly back with nothing -- with a headache,'' Mr. Harrower said.
Besides, ''it was a Sunday night,'' he said. ''Sunday night is drinking night.'' 
 And like the best drinking stories, this one has a twist: He won. 
 The next morning he flew to New York, where ''Blackbird,'' a taut two-character drama about an illicit affair between a young woman and an older man, is having its American premiere. The production, directed by the Broadway veteran Joe Mantello, stars Alison Pill (''The Lieutenant of Inishmore'') and Jeff Daniels in his first New York stage role in more than a decade; it opens tomorrow at Manhattan Theater Club. 
 Yes, Mr. Harrower said, he does kind of wish he'd gone to the ceremony. Winning ''shocked me, absolutely shocked me,'' he said last week, on his second trip across the Atlantic since the Olivier, a bronze bust of its namesake, has taken up residence on his mantel. The theatrical establishment was equally surprised: Not only was Mr. Harrower the dark horse, but ''Blackbird'' is not exactly audience (or award show) friendly. 
 Set in a gray office conference room, where Ms. Pill's character confronts Mr. Daniels's long after their relationship ends, it deals unflinchingly with provocative subjects like sexual power plays, pedophilia and the dark pleasure of abusive relationships. Told in real time in spare, brusquely poetic language, it has a car-wreck effect that can leave audiences stunned into silence. 
 Sitting in a restaurant in his Midtown hotel, dressed in a muted grey argyle sweater, Mr. Harrower, 40, with his shaven head and blond eyelashes, would seem the antithesis of a provocateur. He is soft-spoken and a little nervous, green enough to worry about seeming naive and savvy enough to worry more about seeming pretentious. About the only thing that suggests his propensity for shock is the curse words that litter his conversation. 
 Mr. Harrower denied being part of the ''in yer face'' school, a group of young British playwrights like Sarah Kane and Mark Ravenhill who are known for their confrontational works and with whom he is sometimes lumped. ''I was always gentler,'' he said, ''and more pernicious.'' But this play, at least, was intended to scandalize. ''I want people shaken up,'' Mr. Harrower said. 
 Mr. Daniels -- who rejected a dozen other theater projects to appear in ''Blackbird'' -- certainly was. ''It was just everything that I thought theater was supposed to be about, and so often isn't,'' Mr. Daniels said, in a telephone interview. ''As a play it seems to break rules. I didn't have a clue as to how I was going to pull it off, so I knew that every day at 8 o'clock I would be challenged.'' 
 The audience is too. ''It's supposed to assault them and pull them in at the same time, and that's a direct result of how David has phrased the play,'' Mr. Daniels said.
 The story is based on a newspaper account of a man who traveled abroad to meet a 19-year-old woman he had encountered in a chat room online, only to discover that in real life she was much younger. That the couple pursued the relationship anyway intrigued Mr. Harrower, but it was a difficult play to write. An early draft, written for the Edinburgh International Festival, with its comparatively large budgets, had 15 characters, four locations, the ghost of Marvin Gaye (don't ask) and a performance by a children's choir (ditto). 
 ''You kind of have to go to these stupid places, sort of, to get back,'' Mr. Harrower said ruefully. ''So I went there. And then a genocide happened.'' Exeunt a dozen characters. Though he'd labored over drafts for more than nine months, he wrote the final version of ''Blackbird'' in just four weeks. 
 ''It will never be that easy again,'' he said. ''It was something to do with the language as well. There's not much punctuation in it. I found that I couldn't do full stops, because they were too adamant, too finishing. The form kind of mirrors the uncertainty of people circling around each other. I couldn't use normal across-the-page stuff, so if you look at it, it's very sculpted. It looks rather beautiful, even if I say so myself.''
 The result onstage is a staccato, Mamet-like dialogue that unfolds slowly.
 ''It was a revelation actually,'' Mr. Harrower said, ''because I don't usually write like that.''
 Born and raised in Edinburgh but now based in Glasgow, he had a stop-and-start-and-stop college education; he never graduated. Instead he worked some menial jobs (''I took dishwashing to a whole new level,'' he said) before sitting down, at 24, to become a writer. For two years he lived off unemployment checks and self-discipline, schooling himself with library books and working for eight hours a day.
 About a decade ago he had a breakthrough with ''Knives in Hens,'' another tersely worded play about a woman hemmed in by language. It won awards in Europe (though none in Britain, he noted), was translated into many languages and ran for three years in Germany. Several other plays followed, but Mr. Harrower winces when he talks about them; his adaptations -- Pirandello, Chekhov and Georg Buchner's ''Woyzeck'' -- were more successful than those original works in his view. Though he's creating television and film projects for the BBC, he prefers writing his own stuff for the stage. ''It's the only place where I can properly feel the voice that I hear in my head,'' he said.
 Of course the Olivier changed the way that echoes.
 ''Someone sent me the list of previous winners'' (which includes Mr. Stoppard, Arthur Miller and Martin McDonagh), ''and I just thought -- this is going to sound a bit gauche -- but I just thought, 'I've written a play that stands with these,' '' Mr. Harrower said, still sounding awed and intimidated. 
 ''There's actually no enjoying of it,'' he said of the acclaim. ''Post-'Blackbird' I've got to rethink what I'm going to write about, what my style is, what my voice is. Now the pressure's on.'' Cue the cursing: ''The next one better be good.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: David Harrower, a winner this year of an Olivier Award in Britain. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. E1)
 Alison Pill and Jeff Daniels in ''Blackbird,'' at Manhattan Theater Club. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); WRITERS (90%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (77%); DRINKING PLACES (77%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (60%); SEX OFFENSES (60%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (50%) Theater; Awards, Decorations and Honors; Olivier, Laurence, Awards

PERSON: Melena Ryzik; David Harrower; Joe Mantello; Alison Pill; Jeff Daniels

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2007



184 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Restoration on the Half Shell

BYLINE: By Rowan Jacobsen. 
Rowan Jacobsen is the author of the forthcoming book ''A Geography of Oysters.''

DATELINE: CALAIS, Vt. 

 BODY:
THIS year marks 400 years since the founding of the Jamestown colony, a span in which everything about the area has changed, not least the water. When John Smith first encountered the Chesapeake, he was struck by its beauty and bounty. ''Heaven and earth never agreed better to frame a place for man's habitation,'' he wrote. The water was clear, fish teemed in its depths, and oysters lay ''as thick as stones'' on the bottom.
 Don't try to look for those oysters today. They aren't there. Even if they were, you wouldn't be able to see them through the brown murk. Those oysters were the linchpin of a now-comatose ecosystem. Not only did they pave the bottom, providing footholds for aquatic plants, but they also formed prodigious ''oyster reefs'' 20 feet high and miles long that sheltered juvenile fish and crustaceans. 
And they performed another vital function. Oysters eat algae. A single adult oyster can filter 50 gallons of water a day, and the uncountable billions that once inhabited the Chesapeake filtered the entire bay every few days. This allowed sunlight to penetrate to the bay bottom so eelgrass and other foundations of the food chain could thrive. By providing these three services -- filtration, stabilization and habitation -- oysters engineered the ecosystem.
 Then they disappeared. Overharvesting was the main culprit, but pollution and disease played roles, too. Annual harvests on the Chesapeake plunged, from over 100 million pounds in 1880 to 20 million in 1960 and less than 250,000 pounds today. 
 Many East Coasters think that mid-Atlantic waters are supposed to look like brown soup. They're not. Too many nutrients wash downstream from cities and farms, feeding algae blooms, and there aren't enough oysters around to eat the algae. When the algae die and decay, they take the oxygen with them, causing the ''dead zones'' becoming all too common along America's coasts.
 Today, everyone agrees that to restore the estuaries we need to restore the oysters. But how to do it? Government agencies spend about $300 million a year in oyster-restoration programs, with marginal results. Millions of baby oysters are grown in hatcheries and thrown into the Chesapeake every year, but without the structure provided by oyster reefs, they are crunched up by starfish, stingrays and other predators, buried under sediment, or killed by disease. Fewer wild oysters populate the Chesapeake today than when the restoration programs began in the 1990s.
 Meanwhile, there is a movement to introduce a Chinese oyster into the bay that may grow faster and be more disease-resistant and pollution-tolerant. But the folly of introducing an alien species to a struggling ecosystem has been shown again and again. Zebra mussels, anyone?
 Meanwhile, a real solution exists. Oyster farms are thriving in Virginia, New York and New England. On these aquaculture operations, billions of oysters spend one to three years in metal cages that function as artificial reefs. They filter water. Their shells provide habitat for numerous species. Sport fishermen have learned that striped bass, shad and other species congregate around them.
 Aquaculture has a bad name. We picture fish farms with tons of feed being dumped into the water, creating the same algae-promoting conditions as pollution from cities and terrestrial farms. But the situation is reversed with oyster farms, because oysters are little filters. The farms provide far more water-cleaning benefits than all the government programs put together, don't cost taxpayers a cent, and support coastal economies. They also make better oysters: a farmed oyster is plumper, sweeter and prettier than its wild cousin.
 So, have the Chesapeake watermen, who harvest what remains of the wild oyster fishery, embraced aquaculture? Hardly. They have resisted every attempt to privatize bottomland, even as they go out of business. And Maryland has obliged them with a series of regulations effectively hamstringing aquaculture.
 This is wrongheaded. The rest of us should consider it our patriotic duty to eat more cultivated oysters. I know; it's tough. But opting for oysters over wild seafood takes the pressure off marine populations and supports the sustainable production of food along our coasts. It can even help the Chesapeake return to the state of beauty and bounty that stunned John Smith four centuries ago.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Jeffrey Smith) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); AQUACULTURE (89%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (89%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (88%); WATER POLLUTION (86%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); FISHES (76%); SHELLFISH FARMING (76%); ANIMAL AQUACULTURE (76%); CRUSTACEANS (69%) Fish and Other Marine Life; Oysters; Fishing, Commercial; Aquaculture; Fish and Other Marine Life

PERSON: Rowan Jacobsen

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Chesapeake Bay; Virginia; New York State; New England States (US) 

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2007



185 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:
VYING FOR RADIO SPECTRUM -- Some of Silicon Valley's most powerful venture capitalists and technology investors have joined an investment group that is preparing to challenge cellphone carriers and cable and satellite companies for valuable radio spectrum that will be freed when television broadcasters convert to digital signals. [Page C1.]THE FUTURE OF PRINTERS -- The Internet era has been good to makers of printers so far. But looking ahead, Vyomesh I. Joshi of Hewlett-Packard is concerned that if people find printing Web pages too hard and start printing less, he will have fewer coffee talks where he crows about record revenue, profit, margins and market share. [C1.]PRESS RIVALRY IN THE HAMPTONS -- This week perhaps the biggest story in The East Hampton Star involves the paper itself. 
The Southampton Press, the venerable paper one town over that belongs to the Louchheim family, will introduce a direct competitor, The East Hampton Press, which will come out a day earlier than The Star and will be free. (The Star costs $1.) [C1.]NO MORE SLOW BOATS FOR BOOKS -- The post office's decision to stop transporting goods via cargo ship for individual customers may not hurt big online retailers like Amazon.com, which can qualify for discounts. But thousands of smaller used- and rare-book merchants, like Rob Stuart, above, owner of Frenchboro Books in Maine, say they will suffer, because they rely on foreign demand. E-Commerce Report: Bob Tedeschi. [C6.]A MERGER COMES UNDONE -- Miles S. Nadal, the chairman and chief executive of MDC Partners, hopes to get ahead in the intensely competitive advertising industry with a contrarian strategy of almost continuous change. But following that philosophy can be fraught with risk, as was demonstrated last week with the unraveling of an acquisition and merger involving two New York agencies, which Mr. Nadal orchestrated less than two years ago. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C1.]PROXIES CLEAR AS MUD -- The Securities and Exchange Commission's new disclosure rules on executive pay were supposed to make it easier for investors to understand how top managers were being paid. But piles of new data and proxy statements that are about as easy to parse as the federal tax code have even experts scratching their heads. [C4.]A NEW XBOX 360 FEATURE -- Microsoft plans to announce today that it will make its Windows Live Messenger service available on its Xbox 360 game consoles, bringing instant messaging from the computer to the television. [C7.]FOUNDATION TAKES ON CLIMATE ISSUE -- The Doris Duke Charitable Foundation is creating a $100 million program to support research intended to encourage policies aimed at reducing the threat of global warming. [C6.]A FAKE MYSPACE PROMOTION -- The MySpace fan page with a hot pink background, tribute to Robin Sparkles, a one-hit Canadian teenage pop star from the early 1990s, was just gushing enough to be real. But it wasn't. The MySpace page was a plant, concocted by the producers of the CBS sitcom ''How I Met Your Mother,'' to play off a storyline in the show's Nov. 20 episode. [C8.]EXCLUSIVE TO THE CHICAGO TRIBUNE -- Samuel Zell, who has agreed to buy the Tribune Company, gave his first interview exclusively to The Chicago Tribune. There was no conference call with any other Tribune Company reporters who were tracking the deal, including those at The Los Angeles Times or Newsday, or in Baltimore or Hartford. [C8.]A STOCK TIP MISSES -- Jim Cramer, host of the CNBC television show ''Mad Money,'' recommended on the March 28 episode that viewers sell shares of Dendreon, a biotechnology company in Seattle. The next day, Dendreon's shares tripled when its prostate cancer vaccine was endorsed by a Food and Drug Administration panel. Some viewers are upset. [C8.] PLASTIC DOUBLES AS FUEL -- A chemistry professor has developed a ''fuel-latent plastic'' that can be used like ordinary plastic, for packaging or other purposes, but when it is waste, can easily be turned into a substitute diesel fuel. [C5.]

CORRECTION-DATE: April 12, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A report in the Today in Business column in Business Day on Monday, about a recommendation by James J. Cramer, the host of the CNBC television show ''Mad Money,'' that investors sell Dendreon shares, misstated the timing of events after his comments. Dendreon shares began to rise two days -- not one day -- after the ''sell'' recommendation. (Trading was halted the first day, pending an announcement that Dendreon's prostate cancer vaccine had been endorsed by a Food and Drug Administration panel.)

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); MERGERS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); INSTANT MESSAGING (76%); PRINTER MFG (76%); INTERNET RETAILING (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); RETAILERS (71%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (71%); CHARITIES (70%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); MARKET SHARE (69%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (64%); CLIMATOLOGY (62%); FOUNDATIONS (62%); WAGES & SALARIES (61%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (61%); COMPUTER GAMES (60%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (60%); TAX LAW (50%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%); AMAZON.COM INC (55%); MDC PARTNERS INC (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (57%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (55%); MDZ.A (TSX) (54%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (55%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (54%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2007



186 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Foundation to Offer $100 Million To Deal With Global Warming

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
The Doris Duke Charitable Foundation is creating a $100 million program to support research intended to encourage policies aimed at reducing the threat of global warming. 
 The foundation's climate change project, which is being announced today, comes amid an increasing political push for legislation to curb emissions of carbon dioxide from burning fossil fuels like coal, natural gas and gasoline.
Several bills that would set mandatory restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas, have been introduced in Congress. Other clean-energy bills under consideration are intended to increase the use of renewable energy and promote energy efficiency. Most of the presidential hopefuls for 2008 have proposals to deal with climate change. 
 ''This a well-timed contribution of support for the enormous job we face in the next few years trying to figure out the most productive carbon policy for the United States,'' said Robert H. Socolow, a professor and co-director of the Carbon Mitigation Initiative at Princeton University.
 All charitable grants for climate change programs add up to nearly $100 million a year, according to philanthropy experts. So the Duke foundation commitment of $100 million over five years is ''a very big deal,'' said Eric Heitz, president of the Energy Foundation, a partnership of foundations that promotes energy efficiency and renewable energy.
 But the Duke foundation's commitment, while sizable, is probably most significant for its focus. ''It has decided to take a path that should have a disproportionate impact, to sponsor the analysis and research to shape policy,'' said Hal Harvey, director of the environment program at the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, a leading philanthropic supporter of environment and energy programs.
 The Duke foundation decided on its approach to climate change philanthropy after talking to dozens of scientists, policy analysts and other experts over the last 18 months, said Andrew J. Bowman, director of the new program. The guiding principal, he said, is that smart policy would stimulate the deployment and adoption of clean-energy technologies. 
 Though just getting under way, the broad outlines of Duke foundation's research agenda are set. It will, for example, support research into issues like the appropriate price that should be placed on emitting a ton a carbon dioxide into the atmosphere from power station smokestacks or car tailpipes, and how to best design a system to either tax emissions or set up a cap-and-trade scheme.
 Cap-and-trade is the approach embodied in the current legislative proposals, and it would involve setting an economywide cap on total carbon dioxide emissions, allocate or auction emissions allowances to utilities and other companies, and create a trading market in these ''permissions to pollute.''
 ''How these policies are designed is crucial in terms of getting the right price signals that will encourage efficient private sector investment,'' said Robert N. Stavins, director of the environmental economics program at Harvard University. ''And getting the design of policy right is where the Duke foundation's support could have a real impact.''
 Mr. Bowman of the Duke foundation said that putting a price on carbon dioxide emissions was crucial to provide the economic incentive for needed investments in industrial cleanup, innovative low-carbon technologies and renewable sources of energy like solar and wind power.
 ''But we also need policies that complement carbon price policy,'' Mr. Bowman said.
 Huge gains, Mr. Bowman said, should be achievable in energy efficiency with more stringent rules for building codes and appliance standards, which mandate the use of modern electronics and materials. The regulatory regime for utilities, he added, should be overhauled to encourage investment in ''smart grids'' that can monitor and conserve electricity. In most states, utilities are still paid to produce megawatts but not to save megawatts.
 Homes, offices and power plants, Mr. Bowman noted, often last for 50 or 60 years. ''We have to do everything we can to make sure we deploy the most efficient technologies that we can over the next five and ten years to prevent having an economy that is locked in to a really inefficient infrastructure,'' he said.
 The Duke foundation also plans to support research in strategies for adapting to climate change, which includes steps like protection from floods, building dikes and emergency evacuation plans. Adaptation policies assume that it is best to prepare for the ill effects of a warmer planet, even while taking action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Andrew J. Bowman, director of the Duke Foundation's climate change program, favors studying a ''cap and trade'' policy. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOUNDATIONS (92%); CHARITIES (92%); GLOBAL WARMING (92%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); AUCTIONS (76%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (76%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%) Weather; Philanthropy; Global Warming; Research

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%) Duke, Doris, Charitable Foundation

PERSON: Andrew J Bowman; Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2007



187 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; E-COMMERCE REPORT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Online Booksellers Face Higher Costs for Shipping Abroad

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
THE Postal Service is taking the ''ship'' out of shipping, and thousands of small online booksellers are bracing for trouble.
 The post office said last month that as of mid-May, it would no longer transport goods internationally via cargo ships for individual customers. These so-called surface deliveries have been the crucial method by which booksellers have sold books to foreign markets because the cost is about one-third that of air mail.
Analysts said Amazon.com would not be affected by the change; international book shipments represent a small fraction of its business, and because, like other high-volume businesses, it can qualify for discounts on foreign shipments. 
 But many thousands of smaller used- and rare-book merchants say they will suffer, since they rely on foreign demand.
 ''If postage costs as much, if not more, than the book, it'll be hard to sell books,'' said Rob Stuart, owner of FrenchboroBooks.com, a seller of rare and antique books in Frenchboro, Maine. ''And maybe 25 percent or more of my books sell internationally.''
 In announcing the changes last month, the post office said demand for international air-mail delivery was increasing at the expense of sea-borne services, which account for just 2.7 percent of foreign deliveries. ''As a result, efficient international surface delivery networks have diminished and costs have dramatically increased,'' the Postal Service said.
 Mr. Stuart called the changes ''a brutal reality'' that put him in a difficult position, since his entire town may feel the effects. His company has shipped enough rare and antique books to sustain mail deliveries for the 75 residents of Frenchboro, an island about eight miles off Maine's northeast coast. Now Mr. Stuart, who is also a town selectman, said the island's mail deliveries could be threatened, and he may also be forced to lay off a part-time worker.
 ''We're already competing with the special deals the Postal Service does with Amazon, eBay and the big book purveyors that get cut rates on postage because of volume,'' Mr. Stuart said. ''So when they drop economy international shipping, they're playing with a model that talks about economies of scale -- one that's balanced by a few huge operations, and wipes out the little operations.'' 
 Yvonne Yoerger, a spokeswoman for the Postal Service, said customers aren't yet aware of other options. She said ''customized agreements'' for surface mail are being developed for higher-volume shippers that will be enhanced over the next several months to address the needs of small businesses. ''The Postal Service has a longstanding commitment to small businesses and is working to accommodate customers' needs as the international mail changes take effect,'' Ms. Yoerger said. 
 Philip Bevis, chief executive of Arundel Books, which sells online and in its Seattle store, said he did not believe such customized agreements would extend to small booksellers like him. 
 ''I think the Postal Service dangled that to defuse any pushback,'' Mr. Bevis said. ''If they were really serious about this, they would've pushed back the cancellation of surface mail until they could incorporate these other standards.'' Because small booksellers typically list their inventories with multiple Web sites, like Amazon, AbeBooks.com and Alibris.com, the new shipping costs will be felt, to varying degrees, up the industry's food chain until those customized agreements are final.
 Jordan Gordon, who oversees AbeBooks's North American bookseller operations, said that from the roughly 8,000 American booksellers who list books on his site, 20 percent of the orders are from foreign customers. ''These guys will definitely lose sales, because about half of the international orders they get are shipped at the surface rate,'' he said.
 Booksellers who specialize in hard-to-find titles will be more heavily affected, Mr. Gordon said. ''The Da Vinci Code'' will ultimately sell domestically, but there are only a few people in the world interested in, say, an obscure book on medical ethics. And at vastly elevated prices, that book simply will not sell.
 Foreign consumers, too, will notice a difference, Mr. Gordon said. ''This is hurting the great part of the business for me,'' he said. ''The books I buy online represent the stuff I can't get elsewhere.'' 
 AbeBooks, which is privately held and collects a 13.5 percent commission for sales made through its site, will also lose revenue, Mr. Gordon said. ''We won't have any layoffs over this, but it'll probably hurt our bottom line.''
 Amazon could also lose sales, but Aaron Kessler, an analyst with Piper Jaffray, said such an impact, if any, would be small. ''We don't think it'll have any material impact on Amazon's sales.''
 Thousands of booksellers who market on Amazon's ''Marketplace'' are, meanwhile, awaiting word from the company on how it will approach the new shipping charges. Amazon now reimburses Marketplace sellers about $10 for each book they ship internationally, but that would not begin to cover the new shipping costs.
 Craig Berman, an Amazon spokesman, declined to comment about possible changes in shipping reimbursement policies or on how the new rates might affect Amazon's business.
 So as far as the Postal Service's customized agreements and Amazon's reimbursement policy, ''we're waiting to hear what's going to happen,'' Mr. Bevis of Arundel said. ''If this were 5 percent of my business, it'd be one thing. But it's not. This is a huge part of our sales.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rob Stuart, owner of FrenchboroBooks.com in Maine, says the Postal Service's decision to no longer use cargo ships will hurt his business, around 25 percent of which is overseas. (Photo by Michael C. York for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOKSTORES (94%); POSTAL SERVICE (92%); INTERNET RETAILING (91%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); POSTAL RATES (78%); LITERATURE (71%) Books and Literature; Ships and Shipping; Computers and the Internet; Small Business; Book Trade; Delivery Services; Postal Service

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Amazon.com Inc

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (57%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%)

PERSON: Bob Tedeschi

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2007



188 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Silicon Valley Moneymen Make a Play For Airwaves

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, April 8 

 BODY:
Some of Silicon Valley's most powerful venture capitalists and technology investors have joined an investment group that is preparing to challenge cellphone carriers, cable and satellite companies for valuable radio spectrum that will be freed when television broadcasters convert to digital signals.
 The government mandated the transition to digital, to be completed by Feb. 19, 2009, so it could reclaim a broad swath of radio spectrum and reallocate the frequencies to public safety organizations and commercial broadband networks. 
The venture capitalists L. John Doerr and James L. Barksdale have joined an investment group that is promoting a plan that would open a portion of the radio spectrum for both uses, through technologies flexible enough to support both next-generation wireless Internet devices and public safety emergency communications.
 The plan is being put forth by Frontline Wireless, formed earlier this year by Reed E. Hundt, the former Federal Communications Commission chairman. Frontline Wireless is one of several potential bidders for spectrum in the 700 MHz band, used until now by UHF television, that is being opened up by the move to digital.
 Mr. Hundt said that Frontline had begun building an investor group, which would ultimately include large banking partners, to participate in the auction. Significantly, the company's first public investor was K. Ram Shriram, an early Google investor and board member and managing partner of Sherpalo Ventures.
 Cellular carriers and their rivals covet the spectrum because it has significant capacity and greater range and can easily penetrate buildings and other structures.
 But Frontline's backers argue that their plan is unique because it would be more accessible than today's commercial wireless networks, which are tightly controlled by their licensed operators. The auction, which will be governed by rules that the F.C.C. is expected to issue this month, could generate up to $30 billion in revenue for the federal government, by some estimates. 
 The F.C.C. has a range of options to consider, including breaking the spectrum up for regional purchases or creating a single nationwide license. 
 The rule-making process is being watched closely by all sides because those regulations will determine whether several ideas for exploiting the spectrum with advanced technologies will be accepted.
 The Frontline proposal, for example, calls for flexible access by public safety agencies to a wide section of spectrum in the event of emergencies. That makes it significant that Vanu Bose, an entrepreneur and technologist, is investing in the consortium along with Mr. Barksdale and Mr. Doerr, who were both involved in the creation of Netscape Communications, the pioneering Web browser company. 
 Mr. Bose, son of the audio designer Amar G. Bose, is pursuing an advanced radio technology known as software-defined radio, which controls frequencies through software rather than hardware.
 In principle, this would permit much more efficient use of radio spectrum, allowing the sharing of frequencies through a variety of techniques .
 Frontline proposes to create a large spectrum block that could be sold wholesale to companies that are building services for new portable Internet devices for receiving and transmitting voice, video and data. In the event of public safety emergencies, however, the spectrum could be reclaimed for use by the police, firefighters or medical emergency workers. 
 Mr. Doerr, who is a partner at Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, a leading Silicon Valley venture capital firm, has previously invested in M2Z Networks, another technology-based proposal to build a wireless broadband network that is being promoted by Milo Medin, a well-known Silicon Valley computer network designer, a potential competitor to Frontline with a different business strategy.
 Along with Mr. Barksdale, the two men were partners in @Home, the early and ultimately financially unsuccessful effort to build a nationwide Internet-based network in alliance with cable companies.
 ''I think we're starved for spectrum for digital applications in this country,'' said Mr. Doerr. ''The idea that we can have one or more great new digital networks is very exciting.''
 He noted that the United States was ranked 12th in the world last year in broadband penetration by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
 Mr. Hundt said that Mr. Barksdale was an important addition for the Frontline group because he had been working on public safety issues and his background was in the cellular telephone industry. After Hurricane Katrina, he was appointed by Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi to lead the governor's commission on the recovery, rebuilding and renewal of the state.
 Having Mr. Doerr and Mr. Barksdale as a part of his investment group is a bit like ''a reunion of Shaq and Kobe,'' said Mr. Hundt, referring to the basketball stars Shaquille O'Neal and Kobe Bryant, who once played together for the Los Angeles Lakers.
 Last week, several trade publications reported that Kevin J. Martin, the F.C.C. chairman, was preparing to include the Frontline proposal, or something similar, in setting the guidelines for the auction. If that framework is announced this month, the auction could take place as early as this fall.
 In anticipation of the F.C.C. ruling, a number of companies and industry associations have filed comments with the agency. Last week, Steve Largent, president of CTIA, a trade group for the wireless industry, questioned the legality of the Frontline proposal in a letter to Mr. Martin, while Google filed a letter supporting the Frontline proposal and urging the F.C.C. to avoid further delays in the auction process.
 This year the F.C.C. rejected a competing plan put forward by Morgan O'Brien, founder of Nextel Communications. Called Cyren Call, it would have set a portion of the spectrum aside for a nonprofit organization, with priority for public service organizations in emergencies.

GRAPHIC: Photos: James Barksdale, left, and John Doerr, both Silicon Valley investors, have thrown their weight behind a venture to claim a broad swath of radio spectrum for public safety emergencies and commercial uses. (Photos by Associated Press/Steve Helber
 Associated Press/Marcio Jose Sanches)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (91%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); WIRELESS REGULATION (78%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (77%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); BROADBAND (72%); INTERNET BROWSERS (60%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (57%) Computers and the Internet; Telephones and Telecommunications; Cellular Telephones; Radio; Television; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%) Frontline Wireless Llc

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: L JOHN DOERR (90%) L John Doerr; James L Barksdale; John Markoff

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2007



189 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1627 words

HEADLINE: To Close Gaps, Schools Focus On Black Boys

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU; Griff Palmer contributed reporting.

DATELINE: OSSINING, N.Y. 

 BODY:
In an effort to ensure racial diversity, the school system here in northern Westchester County is set up in an unusual way, its six school buildings divided not by neighborhood but by grade level. So all of the second and third graders in the Ossining Union Free School District attend the Brookside School.
 But some minority students, the black boys at Brookside, are set apart, in a way, by a special mentoring program that pairs them with black teachers for one-on-one guidance outside class, extra homework help, and cultural activities during the school day. ''All the black boys used to end up in the office, so we had to do something,'' said Lorraine Richardson, a second-grade teacher and mentor. ''We wanted to teach them to help each other'' instead of fight each other.
While many school districts have long worked to close the achievement gap between minority and white students, Ossining's programs aimed to get black male students to college are a new frontier. 
 Ossining school officials said they were not singling out black boys, but after a district analysis of high school students' grade-point averages revealed that black boys were performing far worse than any other group, they decided to act. In contrast, these officials said, the performance of black girls compared favorably with other students and did not warrant the same concern.
 The district calls it a ''moral imperative,'' and administrators and teachers say their top priority is improving the academic performance of black male students, who account for less than 10 percent of the district's 4,200 students but disproportionately and consistently rank at the bottom in grades and test scores. The programs are voluntary, school officials said, and some students choose not to take part.
 The special efforts for Ossining's black male students began in 2005 with a college-preparatory program for high schoolers and, starting last month, now stretch all the way to kindergarten, with 5-year-olds going on field trips to the American Museum of Natural History and Knicks and Mets games to practice counting. 
 Ossining's unusual programs for black boys have drawn the attention of educators across the country as school districts in diversifying suburbs are coming under new pressure to address what many see as a seemingly intractable racial divide with no obvious solution. 
 The federal No Child Left Behind law's requirement that test scores be analyzed for each racial group has over the past decade spotlighted the achievement gap even in predominantly white suburban districts.
 Some of the nation's leading minority scholars have praised Ossining's approach, but other educators, parents and civil rights groups contend that such separate programs do more harm than good. Last year, the New York Civil Rights Coalition filed a complaint with the United States Department of Education over such a program at the City University of New York, and the group plans to file a complaint with the state against Ossining's program.
 ''I think this is a form of racial profiling in the public school system,'' said the coalition's executive director, Michael Meyers. ''What they're doing here, under the guise of helping more boys, is they're singling them out and making them feel inferior or different simply because of their race and gender.''
 At a time of wider debate over the socioeconomic barriers facing black boys, the focus on boosting educational support has gained traction with policymakers. In Maryland, a state education task force asserted in December that ''school, itself, is an at-risk environment for African-American male youth'' and issued a 58-page report ''to justify fixing it -- whatever the cost.'' 
 In New York and other large cities, such concerns have spurred the creation of all-male schools aimed at drawing black students. Now, with debate over the achievement gap spreading beyond city borders, efforts like Ossining's -- though few as comprehensive -- are sprouting up in suburbs nationwide. 
 In Teaneck, N.J., school officials formed an after-school club for black boys in 2005, with local black businessmen serving as role models. In the Cleveland suburbs, the South Euclid-Lyndhurst district has spent more than $20,000 a year on clubs that reward black male students for good grades with sleepovers and guest speakers. 
 And in the neighboring community of Shaker Heights, one of the nation's best-known honors programs for black male students, the Minority Achievement Committee Scholars, has since 2004 received calls from more than 40 school districts that want to copy its efforts. 
 Here in Ossining, where Sing Sing state prison looms as a reminder that more black men are behind bars than enrolled in college, Latoya Morris, who is black, said that most of her black male classmates dropped out of school before she graduated in 1999. Now the mother of a 5-year-old boy in kindergarten, Ms. Morris, a nurse, said the extra support for black boys makes sense because the statistics are stacked against them. 
 ''I don't want my son to be in jail when he becomes a teenager,'' she said. ''I want him to have the same chances as a white child.''
 The school officials here noted that it is too soon to measure the impact of their programs with test scores, but that the percentage of black students enrolled in college-level courses in 11th and 12th grades has more than doubled to 55 percent this year from 26 percent in 2004. 
 In the lower grades, teachers have also reported that disciplinary referrals for black boys have dropped -- as much as 80 percent at Brookside -- and that the boys are missing fewer homework assignments and paying more attention in class. (Efforts are under way now to begin similar programs for Hispanic boys, who have also not performed well.)
 Since Lenox Robinson, a 12-year-old sixth grader, joined the district's mentoring program in October, he has begun saving pennies and quarters in a glass jar under his bed -- he has $10 so far -- to pay for college. Lenox failed science last marking period mainly because, he said, he stopped trying after his friends made fun of him, adding, ''I realize I shouldn't have done that.'' 
 Programs aimed specifically at black students, and the boys in particular, are a departure from past efforts that sought to erase the achievement gap by raising the performance of every student, but are gaining acceptance in some circles. 
 This summer, the law firm Sullivan and Cromwell and the investment bank Goldman Sachs are scheduled to convene their third conference of educators and professionals in the past year to brainstorm on ''winning strategies for young black men.''
 While most schools are reluctant to focus on any particular group of students, opposition has lessened. 
 Some black scholars said that achievement-gap programs must be tailored to the needs of black male students if the programs are to succeed. Freeman A. Hrabowski III, president of the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, said that many black boys grow up with few male role models and in high-crime neighborhoods, where being smart in school is not considered cool. ''You can't just ignore the needs of a group and say all children are the same,'' he said.
 But Kati Haycock, president of the Education Trust, a Washington-based group that advocates for disadvantaged children, worried that such efforts may unintentionally lump together high-achieving black students with low-achieving ones and, in effect, ''declare a whole set of kids at risk.'' 
 ''You do have to worry whether you're creating a stereotype that is as damaging as the one you're trying to replace,'' she said.
 The Ossining district is one of the most racially and economically mixed in the affluent Westchester suburbs: about 16 percent of the students are black and 38 percent Hispanic, and nearly one-third qualify for free and reduced lunches. 
 A New York Times analysis of state education data showed that, among about 150 districts that tested students in the 2004-5 school year, the most recent available, Ossining's achievement gap between black and white students was in the top fifth. For fourth graders, the gap widened on the English tests from four years earlier, while for eighth graders, the gap narrowed during the same period but was still twice as big as in all the other districts.
 Since 2005, Ossining's programs for black boys have cost more than $50,000, most of it from donations, grants and a student telethon. School officials said they had not received any complaints about the district's use of resources for this purpose. 
 None of more than two dozen parents who were interviewed directly criticized the focus on black boys, or said that the boys were receiving preferential treatment. But several said the programs should be made available to struggling students regardless of race.
 Under the programs, the extra attention begins in elementary school; every black boy in fourth and fifth grades, for example, is assigned a team of teachers to track his academic progress. 
 The boys also meet black role models, while their parents attend workshops on planning for college. Motivation is emphasized throughout. As part of a recent dress for success contest, high school boys wore suits to school for a month. The two winners received hand-tailored suits. 
 Last month, Brookside started a music class in which, with teacher approval, black boys are allowed to miss one period a week to learn to play conga drums and sing West African welcome songs. After one recent drum fest, 9-year-old Arthur Stokeley, a third grader, sat down with his mentor, Ms. Richardson, to review his class work.
 ''So how was school today?'' Ms. Richardson said.
 ''It was great,'' Arthur said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kindergarten and first-grade boys tour the Museum of Natural History, left. Arthur Stokeley, 9, consults with his mentor, Lorraine Richardson. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Shiho Fukada for The New York Times)(pg. B5)Graph: ''Ossining's Performance''Scoring differences between black and white fourth graders on state English tests show a persistent gap. A New York Times analysis of about 150 school districts that tested at least 11 black and 11 white students shows that the gap in the Ossining Union Free School District is larger than the average for all districts, as well as the gaps in a number of districts with similar demographics.PERFORMANCE ON FOURTH-GRADE ENGLISH TESTGraph tracks percentage of white and black students meeting or exceeding standards at Ossining Union since 2000.Graph tracks percentage point difference between black and white students meeting or exceeding standards at Ossining Union and All districts since 2000.HOW OSSINING COMPARESDifference between the percent of white and black students meeting or exceeding standards on fourth-grade English exam at similar districtsOssining Union Free School District: 42Riverhead Central School District: 36Cleveland Hill Union Free School District: 32White Plains City School District: 24Bay Shore Union Free School District: 21South Country Central School District: 17Glen Cove City School District: 16Lawrence Union Free School District: 15New Rochelle City School District: 14(Source by New York State Department of Education)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); SCHOOL FIELD TRIPS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); SUBURBS (77%); HISTORY (76%); BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (76%); GRADES & GRADING (76%); HOMEWORK (73%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); EDUCATION LAW (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (60%) Education and Schools; Equal Educational Opportunities; Blacks; Teachers and School Employees; Tests and Testing; Education and Schools; Education and Schools

PERSON: Winnie Hu

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Ossining (NY)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2007



190 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Bringing Amtrak Up to Speed

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 I would like to heartily second Steve Hallock's plea for legal action to ensure that Amtrak begins to have priority use of railroad tracks over freight trains (''Sidetracked Again,'' Op-Ed, April 4).
I live in Bellingham, Wash., and Amtrak runs right through my town heading south to Seattle and north to Vancouver. The train runs through gorgeous forest and along the seashore, a short, beautiful and stressfree journey. 
 But every time I ''go to the city,'' I end up alone in my car, fighting the murderous traffic on I-5. 
 Why? Because the length of the train ride is often double or more the time scheduled, and I cannot depend on Amtrak getting me there in time for a concert or meeting.
 In these days of crammed highways, high gas prices and big environmental concerns, this simply doesn't make sense and can't be allowed to continue.Janet JohnstonBellingham, Wash., April 4, 2007To the Editor:
 Steve Hallock complains that Amtrak trains have to give way for freight trains. This, he says, is a problem because it discourages people from riding Amtrak, and if they did so, they would use less energy than if they drove.
 But isn't the same thing true of freight trains? Freight trains use two to four times less oil per ton than semi rigs. Given that 69 percent of our oil consumption is for transportation, the lesson seems clear.
 We need to build a whole new infrastructure for transportation, and half measures will waste precious time as we enter the downside of the peak oil curve.Frank LoganOcean Park, Wash., April 4, 2007To the Editor:
 We need to control the rail system the same way that air traffic is controlled. With the federal government owning the rails or leasing them, there could be a central authority to direct what trains use what tracks and when. Public money could be used to maintain, improve and even expand the system.
 If the rails were opened to new transportation companies, these companies could then enter the market, pay for their use of the rails and provide services that the government may not want to provide -- for instance, express trains to limited destinations.
 Allowing the railroad companies to control the rails, even with ''greater authority to the Surface Transportation Board for track-use enforcement,'' as proposed in the bipartisan legislation in Congress, will cause continuing conflict between passenger and freight service, limit the growth of the rail system and leave us in the same place we are now.Duncan B. HumeBethel, Conn., April 4, 2007To the Editor:
 Steve Hallock describes the unfortunate wrangling between our country's freight and passenger rail systems, and points out that the disagreements over track use create big obstacles for Amtrak as it does its best -- under great constraints -- to provide Americans with superb transportation. 
 Compare this sorry state to a feat reported in your April 3 paper: A brilliant new French train has broken all prior rail records, going 357 miles an hour. 
 Can our rail system ever come close to something extraordinary like that? Will Amtrak ever receive the full support of the current government, one that seems blind to the astounding economic and conservation benefits trains bring to the world?Fiona D.J. BaylyNew York, April 4, 2007To the Editor:
 Steve Hallock recommends legislative intervention to remedy one of Amtrak's many ailments. But if the past decades have taught us anything about Amtrak, it is most conclusively that simply no amount of government intervention will turn the beleaguered company into a prosperous endeavor.
 The Lautenberg-Lott bill will just be another strike cast against a dead horse.Adhitya S. ChitturMarina del Rey, Calif., April 4, 2007

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Peter O. Zierlein) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAINS (95%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (90%); LEGISLATION (86%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); BUDGETS (66%); CONSUMPTION (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Railroads; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Railroads; Law and Legislation

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Amtrak (National Railroad Passenger Corp)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (90%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (90%)

PERSON: Janet Johnston; Frank Logan; Duncan B Hume; Fiona D J Bayly; Adhitya S Chittur; Steve (Asst Prof) Hallock

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2007



191 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: Outrage! A Nation's Phones May End in Foreign Hands

BYLINE: By ERIC SYLVERS

DATELINE: MILAN, April 8 

 BODY:
It has all the makings of a standard Italian financial melodrama, with the usual cast of characters.
 There is a struggling company that is a takeover target, and the controlling shareholder trying to squeeze what he can from a bad investment. Add to that a just-resigned chairman, a group of minority shareholders excluded from the deal, and foreign buyers facing a reluctant government and skeptical financial establishment.
The struggling company is Telecom Italia, which has attracted several potential buyers over the last six months. The only concrete offer, however, came on April 1 when AT&T and America Movil, the Latin American cellphone company, each offered to buy a third of Olimpia, which owns 18 percent of Telecom Italia's common shares, for a combined investment of about 4.5 billion euros($6 billion). 
 Marco Tronchetti Provera, chairman of the tire company Pirelli, controls Telecom Italia through Pirelli's 80 percent stake in Olimpia, a holding he has been trying to sell for several months. His investment in Telecom Italia has lost half its value in the six years. 
 Last week, Mr. Tronchetti Provera ousted Guido Rossi, considered by many in financial circles here to be one of the country's top turnaround specialists for troubled companies, as a result of differences on strategy.
 AT&T and America Movil, which now have the largest cellphone businesses in the United States and Latin America, respectively, may have dropped into this Italian soap opera unprepared for the reaction from some politicians and business leaders, who are demanding that Telecom Italia remain in domestic hands. 
 ''The intertwining of business and politics is not a great omen for success,'' Jan Dawson, an analyst with the telecommunications consulting firm Ovum, and two colleagues wrote in a note to clients last week. ''Ownership and control of Telecom Italia is a political football in Italy.''
 Critics of the Italian version of capitalism noted that AT&T and America Movil were in a position to control Telecom Italia, which has a market value of 44 billion euros, by investing little more than two billion euros each for their one-third stakes in Olimpia.
 Pirelli and its partner, the Benetton family, would hold on to the remaining third of Olimpia, though they would probably have an opportunity to sell that to AT&T and America Movil within a year. Olimpia wields effective control over Telecom Italia through its right to appoint 80 percent of the phone company's board members.
 With its investment, AT&T would get a strong foothold in Italy's corporate market and an expanded presence in Germany, France and the Netherlands -- countries where Telecom Italia has been building broadband businesses. AT&T already sells telecommunications services to big European companies and provides services in Europe for companies based in the United States.
 ''This would complement AT&T's global business,'' said Niall Hickey, a company spokesman in London. ''And on the other hand, we think we can work with Telecom Italia to develop products and services together for the Italian market.''
 AT&T's biggest cost, which it either absorbs or passes on to customers through higher prices, is what it pays telecommunications companies to use their networks. Owning a stake in Telecom Italia would give AT&T privileged access to the company's backbone network that crisscrosses Italy and connects to nine European countries. Though AT&T has infrastructure in 30 European countries, in most cases it is modest.
 America Movil's interest in Telecom Italia is almost certainly linked to the Italian company's Brazilian unit, TIM Brasil, the second-largest cellphone provider there with 25 million subscribers.
 America Movil, which did not respond to requests for comment on the Telecom Italia deal, tried unsuccessfully last year to buy TIM Brasil. AT&T owns about 9 percent of America Movil, which is controlled by the Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim Helu.
 ''America Movil wants the first chance to buy TIM Brasil if it is sold,'' said Carlo Gentili, a founder of Nextam Partners, a hedge fund and asset management company based in London and Milan. 
 Mr. Tronchetti Provera, who was chairman of Telecom Italia until September, had said he is willing to consider offers for TIM Brasil, but the potential sale was shelved when Mr. Rossi succeeded him. 
 Mr. Rossi and others criticized the move because TIM Brasil is the only part of Telecom Italia's business that is growing and continues to have room to expand. The company's domestic fixed-line and cellular businesses, which face a saturated market and fierce competition, did not grow last year.
 Telecom Italia, like most of Europe's former phone monopolies, is struggling to repay large amounts of debt accumulated in recent years, and selling TIM Brasil would give it funds to pay back part of its 37 billion euros in debt.
 ''Tronchetti has been a disaster for Telecom Italia, '' Mr. Gentili said, ''and the company has suffered economically and strategically while he has been in control.
 ''Investors have lost money on his shift, but somebody is making money out of this because this is the fifth time Pirelli seems to be on the verge of selling, and every time nothing happens. They say they might sell, the shares rise for a while, somebody makes money and then the shares drop when the sale falls through. You can be sure you aren't losing money if you are directing the operating.''
 Minority shareholders, about 20 percent of them non-Italian, would watch if Mr. Tronchetti Provera sold his stake in Telecom Italia. No deal has been signed, but the companies are in exclusive talks with Pirelli until the end of the month.
 When Pirelli paid an 80 percent premium over Telecom Italia's share price to buy control of the company in 2001, that deal also occurred outside the market and excluded minority shareholders.
 As in any such drama, there is a chance that a hero will appear and propose an all-Italian solution to replace Mr. Tronchetti Provera and keep Telecom Italia from foreign buyers.
 But for now, AT&T and America Movil seem to be the only game in town.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); POLITICS (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (77%); COMMON STOCK (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (75%); TIRES (68%); BROADBAND (63%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Foreign Investments

COMPANY: AMERICA MOVIL SAB DE CV (92%); TELECOM ITALIA SPA (90%); AT&T INC (86%); PIRELLI NORTH AMERICA INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: At&t Inc; America Movil; Olimpia (Co)

TICKER: AMX (NYSE) (92%); AMX (BMV) (92%); AMOV (NASDAQ) (92%); TIT (BIT) (90%); TI (NYSE) (90%); T (NYSE) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (92%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (92%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (90%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (86%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (86%)

PERSON: CARLO BENETTON (58%); GUILIANA BENETTON (58%); LUCIANO BENETTON (58%); GILBERTO BENETTON (57%) Eric Sylvers

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ITALY (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (73%) Italy

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2007



192 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: How to Fix The Income Gap

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 You are right to critique the disturbing pattern of growing income inequality in the United States (''It Didn't End Well Last Time,'' editorial, April 4). 
Today we have, by far, the most unequal distribution of wealth and income of any major country, and the gap between the rich and poor is growing wider. This is an issue that Congress has ignored for too long and that must be addressed.
 We don't need any more speeches from the White House on ''family values'' when we have the highest rate of childhood poverty in the industrialized world. What we do need is a change in national priorities.
 We should rescind the hundreds of billions in tax breaks that President Bush has given the wealthiest 1 percent, and use that money to begin addressing the long-neglected problems of our children and working families.Bernie Sanders Washington, April 4, 2007The writer is the Independent senator from Vermont.To the Editor:
 Your editorial also could have noted that there are state policies that can help. States have considerable authority to regulate the labor market and establish meaningful standards to ensure that workers receive a fair wage for a day's work.
 A recent report by Cornell researchers estimated that 10 percent of private workers in New York State are illegally misclassified as ''independent contractors.'' These workers are forced to pay both the employer and employee shares of payroll taxes. They also lose out on social protections, paid leave and fringe benefits like health coverage.
 New York State should begin a vigorous enforcement effort to stem this abuse.James A. ParrottNew York, April 5, 2007The writer is deputy director of the Fiscal Policy Institute. To the Editor:
 You document the growing income inequality in the United States. But wealth distribution -- what people own -- is a much more salient measure of growing inequality.
 Estimates indicate that the top 1 percent own between 40 percent and 50 percent of the country's wealth, more than the combined wealth of the bottom 95 percent. If you exclude owner-occupied housing, not a particularly liquid asset, and focus on financial assets and business equity, the figures are more concentrated. 
 The distribution of wealth and income in the United States today is much more unequal than in any other advanced industrial country.Harold JacobsPalm Desert, Calif., April 4, 2007To the Editor:
 It is a myth that ''middle-class and poor Americans use government services more than affluent Americans,'' as your editorial says.
 While wealthy Americans may not rely on food stamps and federally subsidized school lunches, they certainly do rely on the Coast Guard to protect them while using their pleasure boats, the National Guard to rescue them when they get stranded on Mount Hood, or federally subsidized flood insurance to protect their beachfront homes.Michael RodriguezCorvallis, Ore., April 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INCOME DISTRIBUTION (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); WRITERS (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); TAX LAW (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (75%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); CHILDREN (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); CHILD POVERTY (71%); FLOOD INSURANCE (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE (65%); CORPORATE TAX (64%); MARINE VESSELS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (51%); SCHOOL MEAL PROGRAMS (50%); RECREATIONAL WATERCRAFT (50%) United States Economy; Income; Labor; Taxation; United States Economy

PERSON: BERNIE SANDERS (75%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%) Bernie (Sen) Sanders; James A Parrott; Harold Jacobs; Michael Rodriguez

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2007



193 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 162 words

 BODY:
QUARTERLY REPORTS -- Earnings season gets under way with the first Dow component, Alcoa, reporting first-quarter results (Tuesday), followed by the BlackBerry maker Research in Motion (Wednesday), Rite Aid (Thursday) and another Dow component, General Electric (Friday).SIGNALS ON THE ECONOMY -- The main economic news will come on Friday, with the producer price index for April and the trade deficit for March. Retailers will report their same-store sales for March (Thursday). The Federal Open Market Committee will issue minutes of its March 21 meeting (Wednesday).PAINKILLER REVIEW -- An advisory panel for the Food and Drug Administration is scheduled to meet to discuss Merck's application to market the painkiller Arcoxia in the United States (Thursday).NACCHIO TRIAL -- The defense in the trial of Joseph P. Nacchio, the former chief executive of Qwest Communications, is expected to wrap up Monday or Tuesday, and Mr. Nacchio may take the stand in his own defense. 

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); RETAILERS (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (86%); PRODUCER PRICES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (55%); EXECUTIVES (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (90%); ALCOA INC (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); CENTURYLINK INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (56%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (90%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (90%); AAI (ASX) (58%); AA (NYSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); CTL (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (90%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (58%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2007



194 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; THE EMPIRE ZONE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: A Budget That Covers All the Bases

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
While state lawmakers give taxpayer money to anti-gun organizations in the new budget, they also give grants to gun and hunting clubs.
 Then there is $2,000 for nut allergy awareness, $100,000 for a soccer hall of fame and $10,000 for a boxing hall of fame, not to mention $5,000 for a roller hockey club in Lynbrook, on Long Island, and much more for Little League and Pop Warner football teams throughout the state, depending on legislators' clout. Lawmakers also give tens of thousands of dollars to interest groups like AARP and the Empire State Pride Agenda, which lobby elected officials. 
Yes, there is pork aplenty in the first budget passed under Gov. Eliot Spitzer -- $170 million worth of pet projects divvied up by the Assembly and the Senate in a budget with a spending increase three times the rate of inflation. 
 Still, after several years during which pork-barrel spending was decided behind closed doors by George E. Pataki and the legislative leaders, pet projects are once again being delineated line by line. Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo has also set up new procedures for vetting the projects. On the other hand, there are no details identifying who sponsored any particular spending item in the budget or what the item is being used for, though each is identified by party and as coming from either the Senate or Assembly. 
 There are some familiar recipients, including the Ohel Children's Home and Family Services, a Jewish charity closely tied to Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver. Ohel and affiliated groups receive more than $1 million in the new budget. 
 Consistency can be a casualty. So, for instance, the Colonial Rifle and Pistol Club, on Staten Island, gets $5,000 from one lawmaker while New Yorkers Against Gun Violence gets $4,500 from another. Senate Republicans are sending $50,000 of taxpayer funds to Safari Club International, a Tucson-based hunting organization that among other things supports removing grizzly bears and gray wolves from the endangered species list. 
 With the Legislature on vacation for the first two weeks of April, a Senate spokesman was not able to provide further details. Christina Perez, a spokeswoman for Safari, said most of the money would be used to teach children about firearms safety and to help pay for a prisoner rehabilitation program that the group helps run at the Wyoming Correctional Facility in Attica, N.Y.
 ''The last $5,000 goes for wood for their blue-boxes program,'' Ms. Perez said of Safari's New York affiliate. ''They build nests for bluebirds and give them away.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FIREARMS (89%); SPORT HUNTING (89%); CHILDREN (86%); YOUTH SPORTS (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CHARITIES (73%); SOCCER (72%); FOOD ALLERGIES (72%); BOXING (72%); FAMILY SERVICES (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (64%); PRISONS (64%); FAMILY (64%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (57%); SPORTS (57%); MAMMALS (57%); INFLATION (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%) Ethics

COMPANY: SAFARI CLUB INTERNATIONAL (53%)

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (74%); ANDREW CUOMO (73%) Danny Hakim; Eliot (Gov) Spitzer; Andrew M (Atty Gen) Cuomo

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (65%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2007



195 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1449 words

HEADLINE: DEMOCRATS SEEK TO LEAD THE WAY IN TAX OVERHAUL

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 8 

 BODY:
House Democratic leaders, in an effort to upstage Republicans on the issue of tax cuts, are preparing legislation that would permanently shield all but the very richest taxpayers from the alternative minimum tax, which is likely to affect tens of millions of families as early as next year if it is left unchanged.
 The effort, which lawmakers emphasize is still in its early stages, would exempt millions of people from the tax but would have to come up with a way to offset an enormous loss of revenue in the next decade. Measured in dollars, it would be far bigger than Democratic initiatives to provide money for children's health care, education or any other spending program.
The alternative minimum tax was created in 1969 to prevent millionaires from using loopholes to avoid all federal income taxes. Under it, affected taxpayers have to do a second tax calculation without claiming popular deductions like those for state and local taxes that they have come to rely on. It is akin to a flat tax of 26 to 28 percent. 
 But the tax is expanding at a rapid pace, partly because it is not adjusted for inflation. It can hit people with incomes as low as $50,000 and if left unchecked is expected to affect 23 million households during the 2007 tax year -- up from 3.4 million last year.
 Republicans, including President Bush, agree that the alternative minimum tax is out of control and ought to be frozen if not eliminated entirely. But so far Congress and Mr. Bush have only prevented its expansion with a series of one-year fixes. The House Democrats, by contrast, hope to force the issue of a permanent overhaul of the tax, despite the potentially huge cost.
 Between now and the end of May, House Democratic leaders hope to draft a permanent overhaul of the tax that would effectively exclude anyone who earns less than about $200,000 a year -- about 97 percent of taxpayers.
 But that plan would leave a $1 trillion hole in the federal budget over the next decade, which Democrats would have to replace with revenues from other places or with spending cuts, under new ''pay as you go'' budget rules. Just postponing the expansion of the tax for one more year would reduce revenues by about $50 billion, according to Congressional budget projections.
 To pay for permanent tax relief, Congress would have difficulty avoiding two basic choices: impose a substantial tax hit on the remaining 3 percent of taxpayers at the very top, or scale back tax breaks, like the deduction for state and local taxes, that benefit people in many tax brackets. 
 House Democrats see multiple political benefits from seeking a permanent fix. Some are eager to position themselves as tax cutters. Others want to show their ability to tackle a big and difficult initiative. Last but not least, the alternative minimum tax has a disproportionate impact on states with higher average incomes and high state and local taxes -- like New York and California -- which tend to vote Democratic. 
 ''It's a tax cut to the 23 million American families who have no concept that they're going to get hit with this tax increase,'' said Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, chairman of the House Democratic Caucus. ''If President Bush wants to defend the others, that's a debate we are ready to have.''
 The Democrats themselves are divided on how to alter the alternative minimum tax. The Democrats' chief tax-writer in the Senate, Max Baucus of Montana, has shown little enthusiasm for replacing it with tax increases in other areas. Mr. Baucus also needs support from at least some Republicans to have the 60 votes needed to stop a filibuster, and Republicans are likely to oppose anything that dilutes Mr. Bush's tax cuts.
 While perhaps counterintuitive, the House Democrats' embrace of tax-cutting rhetoric stems in part from a pragmatic consideration: the alternative minimum tax has a disproportionate impact on Democratic-leaning states. That is because those states tend to have higher incomes, higher property values and higher state and local taxes -- all factors that expose people under the alternative tax formula.
 A new analysis by Citizens for Tax Justice, a liberal research group, predicts that almost one-quarter of all taxpayers in Connecticut, New Jersey and Massachusetts will have to pay the alternative tax in 2007 unless Congress freezes it again. About one-fifth of all taxpayers in New York and California would be exposed.
 To remind lawmakers of the urgency of addressing the alternative minimum tax, the House Ways and Means Committee recently prepared estimates on the number of people in each committee member's district who were likely to pay the tax. Seven of the top 10 districts were held by Democrats.
 ''When you look at the statistics and see who this is going to impact, the numbers are pretty staggering,'' said Representative John B. Larson, Democrat of Connecticut.
 Jill Kozeney, a spokeswoman for Senator Charles E. Grassley, a Republican of Iowa who is the ranking Republican on the Finance Committee, said that eliminating the alternative minimum tax was one of the senator's top priorities. Earlier this year, she noted, Mr. Grassley introduced a bill that would repeal the tax entirely, without trying to recoup the lost revenue from tax increases elsewhere. Mr. Baucus joined in sponsoring that bill.
 ''A.M.T. relief has been a top priority for Senator Grassley,'' Ms. Kozeney said. ''He demonstrated that time and again as chairman and remains committed to that as the ranking member of the committee.''
 For the Democrats, the political perils of overhauling the alternative minimum tax are significant. Most taxpayers who benefit from relief would barely notice a difference, because Congress has shielded most people from the tax so far with temporary fixes. On the other hand, any tax increase to pay for the relief would probably hit people at the very top with a tangible jolt.
 ''You're talking about replacing a hidden tax which most people don't even know about with an explicit tax,'' said Leonard Burman, a senior fellow at the Urban Institute. ''On policy grounds, it's a good idea. On political grounds, it's a lot easier to have the tax hidden.''
 Senior House Democrats caution that they have not decided any of the details of their plan. Mr. Emanuel would exclude families with incomes below $200,000 or even $250,000 a year from the tax, but keep the tax for people with incomes above $250,000 and add new taxes for people with incomes above $500,000.
 ''We want to fix this once and for all,'' said Representative Richard E. Neal of Massachusetts, who is chairman of the House Ways and Means subcommittee on select revenue measures. Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, said there were countless options for raising revenue and that he was drawn toward simplifying the tax code and eliminating specialized breaks.
 ''What we're trying to do is talk about simplification and elimination of the A.M.T.,'' Mr. Rangel said. ''We have to find out the extent, the amount of money that we could get out of the tax code. You can't start off by saying this class of people will pay lower taxes and that class will pay higher taxes.''
 While nobody likes to admit it, neither Mr. Bush nor Democratic lawmakers want to give up the torrent of revenue from the alternative minimum tax. Mr. Bush's budget proposal as well as Democratic budget resolutions passed by the House and Senate all assume that the tax will either continue or be replaced by other taxes that yield the same revenue.
 Bewildering to calculate and capricious in its impact on individuals, the alternative minimum tax requires taxpayers to perform a second calculation of their tax bill, on top of their regular tax calculation, that erases personal exemptions, the child tax credit and widely used deductions like those for state and local taxes.
 The reach of the alternative tax is expanding rapidly, for two main reasons. The first is that the tax is not indexed for inflation, which means that more people fall into its maw as nominal incomes rise. But an equally important reason stems from Mr. Bush's tax cuts of 2001 and 2003. The cuts lowered taxes under the regular tax, but were not applied to the alternative calculation. As a result, the alternative tax bill is higher than the regular tax bill for millions of additional people.
 After his re-election in 2004, Mr. Bush vowed to overhaul the income tax and abolish the alternative minimum tax as part of the process. But even though he received recommendations from a handpicked advisory panel, Mr. Bush ignored the proposals and never came out with a plan of his own.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''The Politics Behind a Tax''The alternative minimum tax is poised to engulf tens of millions of taxpayers this year, unless Congress extends a temporary freeze that would cost the Treasury $50 billion in 2007 alone. Hardest hit would be taxpayers in Democratic-leaning areas in the Northeast, the northern Midwest and California, which have higher average incomes and higher state and local taxes that are not deductible under the A.M.T.Map of the United States highlighting percentage of taxpayers likely to pay the alternative minimum tax in tax year 2007, under current law.(Source by Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy Tax Model April 2007 [preliminary])(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (95%); TAX LAW (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX REFORM (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (78%); CHILDREN (77%); FAMILY (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); TAX FRAUD (73%); BUDGET FORECASTS (61%) Taxation; Alternative Minimum Tax; Tax Evasion; Law and Legislation; Taxation

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%) Edmund L Andrews; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2007



196 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1557 words

HEADLINE: A Madison Avenue Deal Maker Continues His Spending Spree

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Miles S. Nadal, the Monty Hall of Madison Avenue, is at it again, doing what he loves to do best: making deals. But when is enough enough?
 Mr. Nadal, the chairman and chief executive of MDC Partners, an advertising conglomerate based in Toronto, hopes to get ahead in the intensely competitive advertising industry with a contrarian strategy of almost continuous change.
Like Mr. Hall sweet-talking a contestant on ''Let's Make a Deal,'' Mr. Nadal has persuaded the owners of well-known agencies like Crispin Porter & Bogusky, Cliff Freeman & Partners and Kirshenbaum Bond & Partners to cast their lot with MDC rather than far bigger competitors like the Omnicom Group, the WPP Group or the Interpublic Group of Companies.
 But following that philosophy can be fraught with risk, as was demonstrated last week with the unraveling of an acquisition and merger involving two New York agencies, which Mr. Nadal orchestrated less than two years ago. 
 The agency formed by those deals, Margeotes Fertitta Powell, is being closed because it failed to grow as Mr. Nadal had hoped; the closing costs are being determined.
 Yet Mr. Nadal, 49, is about to announce another round of deals, with agencies that work on tasks like brand identity and corporate communications. He plans to spend $150 million in the next three years on acquisitions, to beef up MDC in important, fast-growing areas like digital advertising.
 ''All service businesses, all businesses in this industry especially, need to be in a constant state of evolution,'' Mr. Nadal said in one of two interviews over the last month.
 ''With the changes in consumers, in the media, we're under more pressure to add talent, to add capabilities,'' Mr. Nadal said. ''The long-term success stories in advertising have evolved, and constantly changed, with the environment.'' 
 The affable, fast-talking Mr. Nadal can be a charmer. But his ability to close deals is probably predicated less on his personality and more on his offbeat strategy: Rather than acquiring an agency outright, he initially takes a stake -- typically from 20 percent to 80 percent -- and lets the agency operate autonomously, under the MDC umbrella.
 By comparison, the giant rivals of MDC almost always acquire total ownership of the agencies they buy. If the former owners stick around, there are operational rules to follow.
 ''The really talented, creative people don't like being told what to do,'' said Jonathan Bond, co-chairman of Kirshenbaum Bond in New York, who with Richard Kirshenbaum sold 60 percent of the agency to Mr. Nadal in 2004.
 ''I don't know if we'd be good in a corporate structure,'' he added. ''We'd probably get fired in a week, with good reason.''
 In contrast, ''MDC has been a good fit for us,'' Mr. Bond said. ''We just go do it till someone tells us not to -- and no one ever has.''
 One reason for Mr. Nadal's belief in constant change is how it has paid off for him: a net worth estimated at more than $100 million; homes in the Bahamas and Palm Beach; an 80-foot cruiser with its own Web site (yachtdaretodream.com); and a special bonus from MDC in 2003 of $5.3 million.
 Mr. Nadal started his business in 1980 on a far smaller stake -- 500 Canadian dollars, a cash advance on his Visa card -- which helped him open a company called Action Photographics. He has parlayed that modest beginning into MDC, the world's 11th largest ad conglomerate, with revenue last year of $423.7 million. 
 From the start, Mr. Nadal has relished making over his holdings continually, shifting focus from photography to check printing to marketing services. Along the way, he bought and sold everything from a catalog retailer to a postage-stamp producer to a seed company.
 Since deciding a decade ago to cut back the churn and concentrate on advertising, Mr. Nadal has amassed a portfolio of about 30 agencies in areas like creative services, online marketing, public relations, package design and sales promotion.
 ''Miles keeps his promises,'' said Chuck Porter, the chairman of Crispin Porter in Miami, arguably the hottest agency in America for its irreverent campaigns for brands like Burger King, Coke Zero, Sprite and Volkswagen.
 Mr. Nadal sometimes ''comes across as a salesman,'' said Mr. Porter, who joined his agency partners in selling 49 percent of Crispin Porter to MDC in 2001, ''and a lot of people do not necessarily want to talk to a salesman.'' 
 ''But he genuinely, truly believes in the product,'' said Mr. Porter, who also serves as the chief strategist for MDC. ''It's not like he's selling Chevys this week and Volkswagens the next.''
 Mr. Nadal said he believed his approach encouraged the founders of the agencies he buys to stay on, limiting the damage that can occur when they leave after deals are closed. He also appeals to their entrepreneurial side by letting them share in the future financial success of their agencies.
 ''We talked to an awful lot of people who wanted to buy 100 percent, but we were never interested in that because we felt our biggest growth was in front of us,'' Mr. Porter recalled. ''Miles understands the value of partnership instead of ownership.''
 Among the newest converts to the Nadal way is David Melancon, chief executive of the Ito Partnership, a New York agency specializing in brand design and development. He is selling 60 percent of Ito to MDC.
 Mr. Nadal ''doesn't always understand every facet of our business, but he's turned on by what we do and gets that people are the product,'' said Mr. Melancon, who has worked for agencies owned by Interpublic, Omnicom and WPP. ''For the first time, I feel I have a say, when I didn't before.''
 Another new convert is Hamilton South, who is selling MDC a majority stake in the New York agency HL Group, which handles communications and marketing tasks for clients like Vera Wang and David Yurman.
 ''We didn't know who he was,'' Mr. South said of Mr. Nadal. ''But we did a lot of research and talked to a lot of people, who told us he had a very interesting model.''
 When the HL founders met Mr. Nadal, ''he asked a lot of questions about how we do business rather than giving us all the answers,'' Mr. South said, adding: ''He's curious and passionate. I have a lot of clients I'd be thrilled to introduce him to.''
 That reaction is crucial for the MDC strategy to succeed, because Mr. Nadal relies on his agencies working voluntarily with one another rather than mandating cooperation, as do some of his bigger competitors.
 Critics of Mr. Nadal point to that as his Achilles' heel because, they contend, if he does not fully control the agencies he owns he cannot maximize the benefits of owning them all.
 ''Obviously, there are risks in that you don't get the efficiencies,'' said Joshua Sharf, a research analyst at William Smith & Company in Denver who follows MDC. ''And there can be tension between the demands of dealing with individual companies and the performance as an overall corporation.''
 Still, ''by letting the agencies maintain their independence, MDC gives them a better shot of capturing business,'' he added, because ''they all don't end up looking like each other.''
 The failure of Margeotes Fertitta Powell may serve as a cautionary tale for Mr. Nadal and his strategy. Hoping, as he put it, to ''turbocharge'' the venerable Margeotes Fertitta & Partners, which joined the MDC fold in 1998, Mr. Nadal acquired Powell, a small New York shop, and merged it with the older, larger agency in July 2005.
 But the combination of the ''different cultures, different management teams,'' never gelled, Mr. Nadal said. So MDC is moving ahead with a reorganization that will most likely cost up to 20 people their jobs, combining the remnants of Margeotes Fertitta Powell with Kirshenbaum Bond and installing Neil Powell, chief creative officer, at his own agency with the fanciful name of We Are Gigantic. 
 ''We think we're very successful, but we knew we'd never be perfect,'' Mr. Nadal said. ''No batter bats 1,000.''
 In assessing the hodgepodge of MDC holdings, even Mr. Porter, the chief strategist for MDC, acknowledged that ''a lot of people in the financial community look at this and say: 'I don't understand it. It's a mess.' ''
 ''Performance-wise, I would like to be further ahead, but so would everyone else,'' Mr. Porter said, adding: ''The real trick for MDC, that will either make it an enormous success or not, is the ability to identify great talent to partner with. When talented people think, 'We need a partner,' I think MDC is in a lot of their minds. And that's a huge step.''
 For the Canadian-born Mr. Nadal -- who has been compared in his home country to Duddy Kravitz, the ambitious striver created by the author Mordecai Richler -- that means more deal-making. And he would not have it any other way.
 ''A substantial part of the portfolio of MDC Partners hasn't even been created yet,'' Mr. Nadal said. ''A lot more to come.''
 Henderson Bas Partnership: 65Integrated Healthcare Communications: 80Ito Partnership: 60Kirshenbaum Bond & Partners: 60 (TAB ENERGY)Margeotes Fertitta Powell: 95 (GODIVA)Mono Advertising: 50Northstar Research Partners: 70Onbrand: 85Source Marketing: 80TargetCom: 100Veritas Communications: 59Yamamoto Moss Mackenzie: 100Vitro Robertson: 68Zig: 50Zyman Group: 62(Source by MDC Partners)(pg. C2) 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Miles S. Nadal, chief of MDC Partners, says advertising businesses are under constant pressure to add talent. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)
GODIVA
VOLKSWAGEN
 TAB ENERGY (pg. C2)Chart: ''A Big Stable of Small Shops''Below is a list of all of the agencies currently owned by MDC PartnersAGENCY / PERCENTAGE OWNED BY MDC PARTNERSAccent Marketing Services: 94Accumark Communications: 55ACLC: 100Allard Johnson Communications: 60Banjo Strategic Entertainment: 75Bratskeir & Company: 100Bruce Mau Design: 50Bryan Mills Group: 71Chinnici Direct: 100Cliff Freeman and Partners: 20Colle & McVoy: 100Computer Composition of Canada: 100Crispin Porter & Bogusky: 49 (VOLKSWAGEN)Fletcher Martin: 85Fuse Project: 20Hello Design: 51

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (73%); MERGERS (73%); BRANDING (72%) Advertising and Marketing; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (91%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (71%); WPP PLC (58%); MDC PARTNERS INC (58%); CLIFF FREEMAN & PARTNERS (57%); KIRSHENBAUM BOND & PARTNERS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Mdc Partners; Margeotes Fertitta Powell

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (91%); IPG (NYSE) (84%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (58%); WPP (LSE) (58%); MDZ.A (TSX) (58%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (71%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%)

PERSON: Miles S Nadal; Stuart Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); ONTARIO, CANADA (73%) UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2007



197 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section H; Column 1; Retirement; MONEY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1723 words

HEADLINE: Income for Life? Sounds Good, but Do Your Homework

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN

 BODY:
WHAT if I outlive my money? The fear of such a thing happening haunts many older Americans. So when a reputable company, New York Life Insurance, teams up with AARP to offer an investment with the absolute promise of lifetime income, it can sound like an answered prayer. 
 Indeed, the investment, an immediate annuity, may be ideal for some retirees, but financial advisers say it is not for everyone. Prospective buyers need to do some homework -- studying both their own finances and the annuities available in comparison with other investments.
After all, an immediate annuity is an investment for the rest of a person's life or a couple's lives, and it is not easily liquidated if either personal circumstances or financial markets change.
 ''If you live beyond your life expectancy, you win,'' said Avery E. Neumark, a partner in the New York accounting firm Rosen Seymour Shapss Martin & Company, who specializes in retirement planning. ''If you die early, you lose and your heirs lose.'' The reason is that annuities, like life insurance, are based on pooling of risks and average life expectancies. Three trends have converged to make immediate annuities especially attractive to retirees: Americans' increased longevity, the decline of traditional defined benefit pension plans that make secure monthly payments and early -- thus longer -- retirements. 
 Larry C. Renfro, the president of AARP Financial, a subsidiary of AARP Services, said, ''Mindful that they run the risk of outliving their assets without ongoing income, many AARP members have expressed interest in the potential of annuities to help fill their income gap.'' 
 According to the National Center for Health Statistics, an American's life expectancy at birth is 77.8 years, up from 69.7 years in 1960. Those who live until age 65 will on average live until age 83.7, up from 79.3 in 1960. As people age, their life expectancies increase, so a 75-year-old today can expect to live until age 86.9. Depending on their health, family history and genetics, some people can expect to live far longer than average. 
 In its basic form, an immediate annuity is bought with a single upfront payment; for the AARP Lifetime Income Program, that can be as little as $5,000. Then the annuity holder receives monthly payments for life. The size of the payment depends on how much money is invested, the investors' age and sex and whether the annuity is for an individual or a couple. 
 Buyers may also choose optional features, including inflation protection and a withdrawal benefit in an emergency. There are also various payment choices; under one, if the annuitant dies before receiving an amount equal to the initial premium, a beneficiary receives the difference. When optional features are added, the monthly payout is reduced. 
 A 65-year-old man who buys a $100,000 AARP-New York Life annuity can expect payments of 6.5 to 8 percent a year, or $542 to $667 a month, depending on the features chosen. At age 75, the payout rate would be 7 to 10 percent. 
 ''Returns are very conservative, but you can sleep at night knowing this much is coming in,'' Mr. Neumark said. ''It's reliable income and provides an opportunity for flexibility with your other investments. You can be in stocks with less worry when you have that secure monthly income stream.'' 
 Martha Priddy Patterson, a retirement expert and director of Deloitte Consulting in Washington, said, ''In retirement we would feel more secure and happy if we knew that every month, X number of dollars will be rolling through the door.'' But, she said, ''you wouldn't want to make that your only investment,'' for several reasons.
 It is always good to diversify investments, she said, adding, ''Inflation is my No. 1 fear, so I would want some TIPS,'' or Treasury inflation-protected securities. And, she said, annuities are relatively illiquid; surrender or unwind charges may be steep. 
 Among the other highly rated life insurance companies that offer immediate annuities are AIG, Genworth, Hartford, Integrity, John Hancock, Metropolitan, Mutual of Omaha, Principal and Prudential. 
 Comparison shopping can be difficult ''because so many bells and whistles are available,'' Ms. Patterson said, and they are costly. ''Decide what you want and what your goals are, and when you talk to sellers be firm about what you want and resist the others,'' she added.
 Kim Holland, the Oklahoma insurance commissioner, said, ''There are certain benefits that you just can't get from other products,'' notably the assurance of lifetime income and a greater payout rate than would be available from certificates of deposit or bonds at present. And income is not taxed until it is paid out. 
 Still, Ms. Holland, who has waged an aggressive campaign to root out and prosecute insurance fraud, said that ''seniors are vulnerable -- they are often targeted by scam artists.'' She stressed the need to check the rating of the insurance company issuing an annuity, the reputation of the individual agent selling it and whether the annuity is appropriate for the prospective buyer. 
 Two years ago, she enlisted AARP in a consumer education campaign on annuities, warning of ''predatory sales practices and the solicitation of unsuitable annuity products.'' In one case, an agent sold a lifetime annuity to a 104-year-old man, Ms. Holland said, and in another, an agent brought cookies to a woman and planted flowers in her garden to win her confidence. 
 When approached by an agent, do not provide any information, Ms. Holland said. Instead, if you are interested, get the person's card and ''do your homework.'' She added: ''Check with peers, friends, relatives, bankers, your accountant. Don't respond to telephone solicitations or ads for free seminars or dinners.'' 
 ''New York Life is a very fine company, and AARP and New York Life have very fine products,'' Ms. Holland said, ''but that doesn't mean they are appropriate for every individual.'' 
 An immediate annuity can be right for people who need a monthly income, just as they had when they were working, and as their parents' generation had with payments from defined benefit pensions, which only a fifth of Americans have today. They also appeal to people who fear they lack the financial expertise to make their savings last a lifetime. 
 On the other hand, the very rich do not need immediate annuities, said Paul Pasteris, New York Life's senior vice president in charge of retirement income. They could put their capital into Treasury bonds and live on the income. Studies have shown that it is safe to take about 4 percent a year from a retirement portfolio, he said. But relatively few people are in that position. 
 ''For the last 20 or 30 years, the financial services sector has been telling people to save for retirement,'' Mr. Pasteris said, but once people retire they ''face a new discipline called retirement income planning.'' 
 Immediate annuities can provide income and help people cope financially with several risks.
 ''The first risk is longevity,'' he said, ''the risk that you could be in a pickle if you live too long. 
 ''The next is market risk. With a portfolio of stocks, bonds and cash, what are the returns going to be? More than just returns -- the timing is critical.'' Suppose the market tumbles just when a person retires. ''Losses early can have a devastating effect,'' he said, because a shrunken portfolio will not produce enough income. ''If a poor return period is later, everything can be fine.'' 
 Inflation is the third risk, and on annuities, inflation protection is available as an option. ''Even if it is only 2 or 3 percent, if you retire at 65 and live till 85, 90 or 95, inflation could have a huge impact,'' Mr. Pasteris said. 
 Health problems are another risk. A comfortable monthly income stream can ease those costs not covered by Medicare and secondary insurance. 
 Overspending is a risk for some retirees who have been looking forward to travel and the good life. ''Can you resist the urge to dip into your nest egg and withdraw too much too early?'' he asked. If not, putting the principal into an immediate annuity and living on the cash flow will require some financial discipline.
 The median policy size is around $60,000, Mr. Pasteris said, and about half the policies are bought through I.R.A.'s or retirement plan rollovers, continuing the tax-deferment on those plans until income is paid out. If an annuity is bought with after-tax money, part of the payout is considered a return of principal and is not taxed.
 Mr. Pasteris said, ''We work with customers to figure their basic income expenses -- food, clothing, rent, medical.'' The next step is to calculate how much will be met by pensions and Social Security. If the amount is not enough, a lifetime annuity can be purchased to make up the difference. ''With the remainder of their savings, people can get more aggressive if they want,'' he said. 
 His colleague, Michael Gallo, who is also a senior vice president, said: ''We don't encourage people to be more aggressive. In general it's better to be more conservative.'' 
 Mr. Gallo added, ''We don't want people putting all their money into this.'' The general recommendation is 25 to 50 percent of assets available for investment, although more could sometimes be appropriate. People should hold some cash in more liquid investments for emergencies, he said, and they may want to try a laddering approach, buying more annuities as they age and costs rise. 
 Tim Kochis, the president of Kochis Fitz, a San Francisco wealth management firm, would put far less into it. ''I would devote no more than 10 percent at the outside,'' he said. ''It is a function of risk tolerance, risk management -- it can be for someone who is very risk averse and would otherwise be paralyzed.'' 
 ''It's much better than a money market fund,'' Mr. Kochis added, but he advises putting the bulk of a portfolio into stocks. ''There's so much opportunity for long-term growth if you can withstand the short-term volatility. That's the price you pay for long-term performance, the price of entry. Most people need to make a portfolio grow.'' 
 Of course, they also need to sleep at night.
 DISADVANTAGES: Lowest yields over timeHOW LONG IT LASTS: 17.2 years(Sources by New York Life, Morningstar, Vanguard) 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Ellen Weinstein)Chart: ''Comparing Immediate Annuities With Alternatives''A 65-year-old man who buys an immediate annuity for $100,000 can expect payments of $697 a month, or $8,364 a year, for life. Here is a look at alternative investments and how long $100,000 would last, assuming the same amount, $8,364 a year, is withdrawn.INVESTMENT: Immediate annuitiesYIELD AVERAGE 10-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN: N/A ADVANTAGES: Lifetime-guaranteed income
no need to manage one's own moneyDISADVANTAGES: Relatively illiquid investment
high surrender chargesHOW LONG IT LASTS: For lifeINVESTMENT: U.S. stock mutual fund (average of 2,519 funds)YIELD AVERAGE 10-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN: 8.37%ADVANTAGES: Liquid
have control
upside potentialDISADVANTAGES: Volatility
principal is at risk
early-year losses can be disastrousHOW LONG IT LASTS: If early years are strong, return exceeds withdrawal, so lifetime income and a legacy for heirsINVESTMENT: International stock fund (average of 740 funds)YIELD AVERAGE 10-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN: 8.52%ADVANTAGES: Liquid
have control
upside potentialDISADVANTAGES: Volatility in both share prices and currency rates
principal is at risk
early-year losses can be disastrousHOW LONG IT LASTS: If early years are strong, return exceeds withdrawal, so lifetime income and a legacy for heirsINVESTMENT: Bond fund (average of 2,848 funds)YIELD AVERAGE 10-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN: 5.06%ADVANTAGES: Liquid
have control
less price fluctuation than stocksDISADVANTAGES: As bond yields rise, bond prices dropHOW LONG IT LASTS: 19.8 yearsINVESTMENT: Money market fund (Vanguard Prime)YIELD AVERAGE 10-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN: 3.77%ADVANTAGES: Principal is secure
 liquid

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNUITIES (91%); LIFE INSURANCE (90%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); TRENDS (77%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (77%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (77%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (76%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); BONDS (72%); STATISTICS (66%); HEALTH STATISTICS AGENCIES (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Special Sections; Annuities; Retirement

COMPANY: NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (85%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%)

PERSON: Jan M Rosen

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



198 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section H; Column 1; Retirement; MONEY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Cutting Costs While Appearing Savvy

BYLINE: By FRED BROCK

 BODY:
IF you have been whipsawed by the stock market and have seen the value of your house plunge, you might be looking askance at your retirement plans. If you are already retired, you may be worried about staying that way without looking for a soup kitchen.
 Well, try to relax and remember something important: you can increase your income by cutting expenses, which could save your retirement.
We live in such an affluent society that you can eliminate plenty of expenses without becoming a cheapskate. You don't have to reuse tea bags or make guitar picks from expired credit cards. The goal is to be economical. Combined with retirement, this can lead to a simpler life, which many baby boomers say they seek.
 It's also important to think both big and small. 
 Consider, for example, where you live. This can make a huge difference in how much you will need to live on in retirement. If you reside in an expensive, high-tax area, you can lower your expenses a lot by moving to a less expensive place. If you want to stay put or you already live in a cheaper area, you may want to move to a smaller house or increase your income with a reverse mortgage, which can allow you to tap the equity in your home to create an income stream. 
 Two Web sites, BestPlaces.net and RetirementLiving.com, can be helpful in sorting this out. Best Places compares housing and living costs among different towns and cities in America; Retirement Living looks at state taxes. AARP's Web site (aarp.org) is a good source of information on reverse mortgages.
 If you decide to move to a cheaper area, your house can become a virtual money machine because of the astonishing differences in housing prices nationwide. Home prices around the country are mostly down, although they have rebounded in some places, including Manhattan. If you're willing to move, however, it's the relative difference in values that is more important.
 Consider someone who lives in San Francisco and plans to retire to Tucson, a popular retirement city. For ease of calculations, let's assume a pre-retirement income of $100,000. Let's also assume that the retiree will move from a median-priced home in the San Francisco area that is paid for to a median-priced home in Tucson.
 First, according to Best Places, this person will need only $50,971 a year to maintain the same standard of living in Tucson that he had on a $100,000 income in San Francisco. So it is 49 percent cheaper to live in Tucson than in San Francisco. That comparison assumes a mortgage and work-related expenses. Without those, it is even cheaper.
 The median price of a home in San Francisco is $750,000, according to Best Places. The median price of a home in Tucson is $202,400, below the national average of $217,200. If the retiree sells the San Francisco home and pays a 5 percent real estate broker's fee of $37,500, he can walk away with $712,500. Suppose the seller uses $250,000 of that to move to Tucson and buy a house. That leaves $462,500. At 6 percent through long-term investments, that amount would yield an annual income of almost $28,000, without touching the principal. 
 The next big expense most of us have to deal with is parked in our driveway. Cars offer a great opportunity to cut expenses and increase income. 
 First, try to get by with one car. This can be difficult for working couples or families but should be relatively simple for retirees. If you sell your second car, you not only eliminate a monthly payment or free up money if you paid cash for the vehicle, but you also reduce insurance bills.
 When it comes time to replace that car, should you buy new or used? In most cases, the most expensive thing you can do is buy or lease a new car every two or three years. The least expensive route -- which can save thousands of dollars a year -- is to buy a used car, especially one that is only two or three years old and may still be under warranty. 
 There is also a middle way: buy a new car and run it until it dies. With proper maintenance, keeping a car for 10 years or more does not necessarily mean big repair problems, because cars are built so much better nowadays than they were in the past. If you don't think so, find a collector with a well-maintained 1955 model and check out its fit and finish. If the collector will let you, take it for a spin. You'll happily go back to the future.
 The main advantage of buying a used car or keeping a new one for a long time is that you save on depreciation, which is much higher during the first year or two of a car's life. On many cars, depreciation can run 20 percent or more in the first year alone. If you buy a used car, someone else has absorbed that cost; if you drive a new car a long time you minimize its depreciation by spreading it over many years.
 A good place to check all this out, right down to the exact model you're considering, is Edmunds.com. At the bottom of the home page, click on True Cost to Own to see the effects of depreciation and other expenses.
 Now it's time to sweat the small stuff.
 Most of us overspend on little things. We think: Why not? It's only a dollar or two. But you need to consider the cumulative effect of saving on small items. Again, this does not mean giving up the things you like; it just means getting them smarter and cheaper. 
 Do you spend $2 twice a day on a fancy cup of coffee that you could make yourself for pennies? That high-priced coffee totals about $60 a month, or $720 a year. If you invest $60 a month at 6 percent interest for 10 years, you'll have almost $10,000. And you haven't given up coffee.
 If you go to the movies several times a month at $5 to $12 a ticket and drop $5 or $10 on overpriced popcorn and junk food, consider joining a DVD service like Netflix, which allows an unlimited number of movies each month for a flat rate. Buy a popcorn popper and watch the savings grow.
 Ditto if you spend $1 on sodas from machines. You can buy the same soda at a discount store by the case for about 25 cents a can. The savings on two sodas a day is $10.50 a week, or about $42 a month. At 6 percent, that turns into almost $7,000 in 10 years. 
 Cutting back on restaurant meals is another way to save. 
 These suggestions only scratch the surface. If you search for ''cutting expenses'' on an Internet search engine, you'll find hundreds of ideas to consider. Two interesting sites are bloggingawaydebt.com and mightybargainhunter.com. 
 Tricia Sperry in Calumet, Mich., runs the first site. It allows you to see the details as she and her husband cut expenses and save money to pay down their credit card debt. The second is operated by John Wedding in King George, Va., who works as a physicist. He loves figuring out ways to save money. 
 ''My parents were frugal,'' he said. ''I guess it rubbed off on me.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Jason Schneider) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); REVERSE MORTGAGES (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (70%); CITY LIFE (64%); CITIES (64%) Retirement; Special Sections; Life Styles

PERSON: Fred Brock

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



199 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 80 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Rates Unchanged

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

DATELINE: TOKYO, Tuesday, April 10 

 BODY:
The Bank of Japan on Tuesday kept interest rates unchanged for a second month after consumer prices fell and recent data signaled that economic growth in the United States may slow.
 The policy board, led by Governor Toshihiko Fukui, voted unanimously to hold the key overnight lending rate at 0.5 percent, the lowest among major economies, the bank said in a statement. The bank raised the key rate from near zero in July, its first increase in six years, and doubled it in February. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); TRENDS (85%) Credit; Interest Rates; Economic Conditions and Trends; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); United States Economy

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (58%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007



200 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: Defaults Rise In Next Level Of Mortgages

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Some of the problems afflicting mortgages sold to borrowers with weak, or subprime, credit increasingly appear to be cropping up in loans made to homeowners who were thought to be less risky.
 The latest sign of possible further deterioration in the credit market came yesterday as American Home Mortgage, a lender based in Melville, N.Y., said that it would earn less and pay out a smaller dividend because it was being asked to buy back and write down the value of certain loans.
Those loans are known as Alternative A, or Alt-A, and were made to borrowers with decent credit. Shares in the company tumbled 15.2 percent, to close at $21.92. 
 The announcement followed a disclosure last week by M&T Bank, a regional bank based in Buffalo, that it would write down Alt-A loans and no longer sell them because bids for the mortgages came in lower than it had expected. 
 Since the subprime mortgage market began deteriorating late last year, investors and analysts have kept a close watch on Alt-A loans, worrying that problems in higher-grade loans would prove to be a greater threat to the housing market and the economy.
 Alt-A loans are made to borrowers with credit ratings that fall between prime and subprime, or to homeowners who have prime credit but are seeking a somewhat riskier loan. 
 Such loans made up about 10 percent of all mortgages outstanding at the end of 2006 and made up about 18 percent of home loans written last year, according to Moody's Economy.com. 
 Together, subprime and Alt-A loans account for about 21 percent of loans outstanding and 39 percent of mortgages made in 2006.
 The delinquency rate for Alt-A mortgages remains much lower than the rate for subprime mortgages, but it has been rising. In February, 2.6 percent of Alt-A loans were delinquent by 60 or more days, up from 1.22 percent a year before, according to FirstAmerican LoanPerformance. By comparison, 12.44 percent of subprime loans were delinquent by more than two months, up from 7.84 percent.
 Reports that Wall Street, which made millions of dollars securitizing mortgages in recent years, is becoming more wary of Alt-A by putting loans back to lenders or by bidding less for them could be an indication that default rates will worsen before they improve.
 The problems in subprime mortgages started late last year when big investment banks started returning delinquent loans to lenders. Many of those lenders have since filed for bankruptcy protection. 
 ''The credit markets were showering the mortgage market with capital, and now that's just evaporating,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Economy.com. ''The capital markets are going to exacerbate the problem, seemingly.''
 Until recently, mortgage companies had been able to sell loans to Wall Street banks and other investors for a premium that was big enough to cover their costs of making the loans and to make a tidy profit. The banks would then package the loans into pools to be sold as bonds to hedge funds, insurance companies and other investors.
 ''Now you are selling at par or lower in some instances,'' said Thomas M. McCarthy, a managing director at Carlton Group, a real estate investment firm that brokers the sale of mortgages. ''It really throws the business upside down.''
 For American Home Mortgage, the lower prices investors are willing to pay for Alt-A loans will mean that the company will earn from 40 cents to 60 cents a share in the first quarter. Analysts had expected it to earn $1.06 a share, according to a survey by Bloomberg News. 
 Beginning in the second quarter, the company, which is structured as a real estate investment trust, will reduce the dividend for its common shares to 70 cents a share, down from $1.12 in the first quarter. The company also said it would write down $484 million in mortgage securities it owns because of the lower prices at which the bonds were now trading.
 Until recently, Alt-A loans were considered by many investors to be only slightly more risky than prime mortgages, and losses in bonds backed by the mortgages were small and rare, said Zach Gast, an analyst at the Center for Financial Research and Analysis.
 ''This is a definite sign that at least in the secondary market the subprime issues are spilling over,'' he said.
 Default rates have been worst for loans written in 2006, as many mortgage companies loosened lending standards by allowing more borrowers to make no down payments and not verifying that borrowers indeed earned what they claimed they did in mortgage applications. The companies relaxed the rules in an effort to bolster business at a time when interest rates were rising and the housing boom was fading. 
 Alt-A loans are also vulnerable to the deterioration in formerly hot housing markets along the coasts and in the Southwest, because they were often used by investors who were buying properties with the intention of quickly reselling them at a profit.
 ''Alt-A seems to be located regionally in spots where the market is having a great deal of difficulty, particularly in Las Vegas, Arizona and Florida,'' Mr. Zandi said. So far, however, the problems in the housing and mortgage businesses appear to have had only a modest overall impact on the broader economy.
 Still, Mr. Zandi says the true test will come in the next two to three months during the peak of the spring home selling season. He notes that employment in the construction sector, which had grown at a rapid pace during the housing boom, has leveled off in recent months but has not fallen significantly even as construction spending has tumbled.

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Loan Troubles Are Moving Up the Quality Scale''Companies lent an estimated $400 billion to people with intermediate credit, also known as Alternative-A, for mortgages last year. Delinquency rates in these types of loans have risen in recent months.IndyMacALTERNATIVE-A LOANS, 2006, IN BILLIONS: $70.2SHARE OF COMPANY'S LOANS THAT WERE ALT-A: 78.0%Countrywide FinancialALTERNATIVE-A LOANS, 2006, IN BILLIONS: 6.0SHARE OF COMPANY'S LOANS THAT WERE ALT-A: 14.7Residential Capital GroupALTERNATIVE-A LOANS, 2006, IN BILLIONS: 44.0SHARE OF COMPANY'S LOANS THAT WERE ALT-A: 45.5EMC MortgageALTERNATIVE-A LOANS, 2006, IN BILLIONS: 28.3SHARE OF COMPANY'S LOANS THAT WERE ALT-A: 39.0Washington MutualALTERNATIVE-A LOANS, 2006, IN BILLIONS: 25.3SHARE OF COMPANY'S LOANS THAT WERE ALT-A: 12.9Aurora Loan ServicesALTERNATIVE-A LOANS, 2006, IN BILLIONS: 19.4SHARE OF COMPANY'S LOANS THAT WERE ALT-A: 52.7GreenPoint Mortgage FundingALTERNATIVE-A LOANS, 2006, IN BILLIONS: 18.3SHARE OF COMPANY'S LOANS THAT WERE ALT-A: 50.3WMC Mortgage CorporationALTERNATIVE-A LOANS, 2006, IN BILLIONS: 17.7SHARE OF COMPANY'S LOANS THAT WERE ALT-A: 53.3First Magnus FinancialALTERNATIVE-A LOANS, 2006, IN BILLIONS: 13.3SHARE OF COMPANY'S LOANS THAT WERE ALT-A: 44.3Impac Mortgage HoldingsALTERNATIVE-A LOANS, 2006, IN BILLIONS: 11.6SHARE OF COMPANY'S LOANS THAT WERE ALT-A: 92.1Graph tracks Alternative-A loan delinquency rates (30, 60, and 90 days late) since 2004.(Sources by Inside Mortgage Finance
 FirstAmerican LoanPerformance [delinquency rates])(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); SUBPRIME LENDING (91%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SECURITIZATION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); HOLDING COMPANIES (74%) Housing; Mortgages; Housing

ORGANIZATION: American Home Mortgage Holdings

PERSON: Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007

 
