

1 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: Doubles Stars Share a Complex Heritage

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER CLAREY

 BODY:
Cara Black and Liezel Huber disagree on the particulars of their first meeting on a tennis court. Black remembered clearly that Huber bedeviled her with drop shots galore; Huber is convinced it was the other way around. 
 But neither woman has any difficulty remembering where the meeting took place. It was during an entry-level professional tournament in 1992 in Zimbabwe's capital, Harare. It was considerably less troubled then, a place where Black and her older brothers, Byron and Wayne, were raised to be unlikely tennis stars on four grass courts built by their father.
 The tournament in Harare was Black's first senior event, and she was just 13. Huber, then 16, had driven north to Zimbabwe with her father in the family van from their native South Africa. She and Black agree that Huber won their early-round singles match in three tough sets. More portentously, a connection was made, one that would eventually deepen into them becoming the world's top-ranked doubles team. 
 This weekend, at the tour championships in Doha, Qatar, Black and Huber defeated Samantha Stosur and Rennae Stubbs, 3-6, 7-6 (3), 10-8, in Saturday's semifinals and secured the year-end No.1 doubles ranking for the third straight year. At first glance, Black and Huber form a partnership of opposites. Huber is 5 feet 11 inches with a sturdy build and the outspoken personality of one accustomed to taking the lead. Black, at 5-6, is petite for a contemporary tennis player and, while quite capable of expressing herself, she is quieter and more circumspect.
 But what Black and Huber share is a common heritage: steeped in the big-sky landscapes and sociopolitical tensions of southern Africa. 
 ''Our reasoning is very similar,'' Black said. ''I think I have a good understanding of her because we just come from the same background. I think it helps us on the court.''
 Huber, who is married to an American tennis coach, became a United States citizen last year in time to play doubles with Lindsay Davenport at the Olympics. But Black remains deeply committed to her African roots. She might be based in Wimbledon, a short walk from the All England Club. She might be married to an Australian, the trainer Brett Stephens, but Black has maintained her Zimbabwean citizenship and continues to visit often despite the country's political and economic problems. She said she sensed incremental change for the better now.
 ''I used to spend half my time on visits trying to find money and trying to exchange money, because it wasn't legal,'' she said. ''So all the bare necessities are really coming back and really helping make life much easier there, although there's still such a long way to go.''
 Cara's father, Don, who once played at Wimbledon, died of cancer in 2000, but her mother, Velia, still divides her time between London and Zimbabwe. And Cara's brother Wayne has moved back to Zimbabwe after retiring from the circuit.
 ''No matter what's happened throughout the country, it's just where we're from, and it means so much to us,'' Black said. ''With my husband being Australian, most people would think I would move there and get an Australian passport, but that's not me and that's not where I come from. It would just feel strange. I don't think I could ever represent another country.''
 Huber, who lives with her husband, Tony, on their 11-court tennis ranch in suburban Houston, acknowledged that Africa remained part of her identity. But she made it clear that she had turned the page, and her parents are preparing to do the same. According to Huber, they have been granted residency in the United States, where they will move in February.
 ''I'm so grateful for the upbringing I had and the things I saw that other people would never be able to see, and the lifestyle my parents provided for us in South Africa,'' she said. ''But I'm also grateful to be here in the States and for being given this opportunity and not necessarily having to worry if I stop at a traffic light that there's danger or that somebody will break into my house.
 ''There are a lot of struggles in Africa, and I'm not being mean when I'm saying this, but I'd much rather be in the States. I think there's a much brighter future here for my children.''
 Huber, 33, and Black, 30, expressed eagerness to start families. But for at least another season or two, their primary concern is making the most of a partnership that has not been without major challenges.
 In 2005, their first year as regular partners, they won Wimbledon but had only four days to celebrate before Huber tore multiple ligaments in her left knee during a mixed-doubles match in World Team Tennis.
 Black, uncertain that Huber would play again, chose to form a new partnership with the Australian Rennae Stubbs and stayed with Stubbs in 2006. Huber, who had returned more quickly from reconstructive surgery than expected, was left to flit from partner to partner, not without resentment toward Black.
 ''It was hurtful to me in a way,'' Huber said. ''But it's forgotten now. We run a good business, and we're good friends and we both have the same goals. We learned from it, and it's lucky we learned from it back then.''
 Since reuniting in 2007, the doubles specialists have used their complementary talents -- Huber's baseline power and Black's deftness at the net -- to win 24 tournaments, including three Grand Slam titles.
 But although they remained No. 1, it would be a stretch to call them the top doubles team this season. Not with the Williams sisters, Venus and Serena, winning three of the four Grand Slam titles and compiling a 24-1 record. Although the sisters were seeded second among the four teams to qualify for the tour championships, they were ousted on Saturday by Nuria Llagostera Vives and Maria Jose Martinez Sanchez of Spain, 2-6, 6-4, 10-8. 
 ''Never in my wildest dreams would I have thought that Venus and Serena would have played all the Slams and some other events,'' Huber said. ''I think it's great for doubles.''
 It has not been nearly so great for Black's and Huber's bottom line. The Williamses overwhelmed them, 6-1, 6-2, in the Wimbledon semifinals, then thumped them, 6-2, 6-2, in the United States Open final.
 ''First of all, I think they're a lot physically stronger than us, and that's just God's gift,'' Huber said. ''Where God gives, God takes. They are a lot stronger than us, so we have to start focusing on what our strengths are and really not have them take our strengths away from us.
 ''Believe it or not, it is enjoyable playing them. It might not look like it when we lose, 6-2, 6-2, but it is enjoyable.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cara Black, front, and Liezel Huber secured the year-end No. 1 doubles ranking.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CLIVE BRUNSKILL/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TENNIS (91%); SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ATHLETES (78%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (78%); RANKINGS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARARE, ZIMBABWE (94%) ZIMBABWE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); QATAR (90%); AFRICA (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



2 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 3048 words

HEADLINE: The R.O.T.C. Dilemma

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP. 
Michael Winerip writes the Generation B column for Sunday Styles.

 BODY:
IN a speech last year, Drew Faust, the president of Harvard, congratulated seniors who had gone the extra mile to get their R.O.T.C. training. She meant it literally, and the extra miles they had gone were the least of it.
 Harvard has not had a Reserve Officers Training Corps program on campus since antiwar protests in the 1960s shut it down. The handful of Harvard students determined enough to join R.O.T.C. must travel to Boston University and across Cambridge to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology for their training, under a system developed by the military that allows host universities to serve nearby campuses.
For the last four school years, several times a week, Daniel West, Joe Kristol and Dom Pellegrini, all training to become United States Marine Corps officers, had to get to M.I.T. or B.U. by 5:45 a.m. It was so early the subway wasn't running yet. 
 ''I'd be up at 4:45 to shave first,'' Mr. Kristol said. 
 Sometimes, when they had the energy and the weather wasn't too frigid, the three ran the half-hour to B.U. in the predawn darkness. Some days, Mr. Kristol drove them -- he says that was the only reason he kept a car, which cost him $250 to $300 a month to park and maintain. 
 Mr. West, the student executive officer of his Marine R.O.T.C. chapter, had to be at M.I.T. or B.U. six days a week. ''I'd try to schedule my Harvard classes around it,'' said Mr. West, an economics major who graduated in June. His first year at Harvard, seven freshmen were in the Navy R.O.T.C. group, which includes the Marines. But that year four dropped out.
 ''Some quit because it wasn't right for them,'' Mr. Kristol said. ''But some couldn't take the logistics.''
 It's worse at Yale, which also banned R.O.T.C. in the '60s. Students must drive an hour and a half to Storrs to train at the University of Connecticut. 
 Anthony Runco, a Yale junior, typically leaves New Haven at noon on Thursdays for Air Force training and doesn't get back until 7:30 p.m. Freshman year he missed a Spanish class every Thursday and had to get notes from a friend; sophomore year it was an electrical engineering class.
 Most years one or two graduating seniors in R.O.T.C. are commissioned as officers, according to Jerry Hill, a Yale administrator who oversees the program. Next spring there will be none. At Harvard in June, eight graduates were commissioned, in all three military branches. The year before, there were five. 
 These modest numbers come even though, in the last five years, the Army has nearly tripled the amount of money it has put into R.O.T.C. scholarships, to $263 million, and increased enrollment nationwide by 26 percent, to 30,721 students, to fill vacancies in its officer corps. It has been a time when military recruiters in all branches, working in a depressed economy, are acing their quotas. At Texas A&M, 115 freshmen in 2008 received Army R.O.T.C. scholarships, compared with 35 the year before. The military has a lot at stake: 60 percent of all new Army officers each year come from R.O.T.C. programs.
 R.O.T.C. students at Harvard and Yale are not the only ones campus-hopping. Harvard is one of eight colleges served by M.I.T., the Army R.O.T.C. host school. Five of these satellite colleges -- Wellesley, Tufts, Gordon, Endicott and Salem State -- have arranged for transportation for their cadets to get to M.I.T. Several colleges in the consortium have the R.O.T.C. staff travel to their campuses to conduct military classes and physical training, making it easier on their students.
 Harvard, with its campus ban, does neither. 
 One of the featured speakers at the 2009 Harvard commissioning ceremony, Darnell Whitt II, a retired naval captain, noted that the year he graduated from Harvard -- 1959 -- 121 seniors were commissioned as officers. He told the R.O.T.C. students that he was sorry their numbers were so few and that he hoped that by the time they returned for their 50th reunion, ''the current issues about military matters at Harvard will have been resolved and there will be a closer connection between the great university and those in uniform.''
 THIS is the 40th anniversary of the antiwar protests that led to the ban of R.O.T.C. at some of the nation's most elite universities -- Harvard, Yale, Brown, Columbia, Stanford, the University of Chicago, Tufts. And yet, the attitude on these campuses today is hardly antimilitary. There are numerous signs of genuine respect for the soldiers who serve. An editorial last May in the student newspaper, The Harvard Crimson, which for decades attacked R.O.T.C., praised classmates who had joined the program. ''They demonstrate a commitment to service that should be admired and followed by the rest of the student body,'' The Crimson said. The Yale, Columbia and Brown student papers have all published editorials in the recent past calling for the return of R.O.T.C. to their campuses.
 R.O.T.C. members interviewed at Harvard, M.I.T. and Yale said they rarely if ever heard negative comments around campus, and a few said they had experienced the opposite problem. 
 ''People stop me and thank me for serving,'' said Gregory Wellman, an Army R.O.T.C. cadet at M.I.T. ''It's a little awkward because at this point I'm just a student and haven't done anything.''
 Last spring, the Republican club at Harvard sent e-mail messages asking all undergraduates about the ban on R.O.T.C. Of the 1,700 students who answered, 62 percent favored returning it to campus. 
 At Harvard, the attitude toward the military began to shift after the 9/11 attacks, which was about the time that Lawrence Summers became president. That November, as part of the university's Veterans Day commemoration, he had letters hand-delivered to all students in the R.O.T.C. program, thanking them for their ''commitment to national service.'' For years, students could not list R.O.T.C. as an activity in the yearbook because it wasn't an official program, but that changed after Dr. Summers met with the yearbook staff.
 By 2008, under President Faust, Harvard was allowing the Army to land two Black Hawk helicopters on campus to transport Army R.O.T.C. members to Fort Devens, Mass., for weekend training. 
 During a campaign visit to Columbia University, Barack Obama, a favorite on the Ivy campuses, called the R.O.T.C. ban there wrong. (R.O.T.C. students at Columbia, in Manhattan, go to Fordham University or Manhattan College, both in the Bronx, for training). ''The notion that young people here at Columbia, or anywhere, in any university, aren't offered the choice, the option of participating in military service, I think is a mistake,'' Mr. Obama said.
 Not long after that, in an editorial citing Mr. Obama, The Brown Daily Herald reversed its longtime opposition. ''R.O.T.C. deserves its day on College Hill,'' the editorial concluded. (Currently, Brown R.O.T.C. students are trained at Providence College.)
 Despite the small number of graduates commissioned in June, Harvard officials estimated the crowd at the ceremony in the Yard at 2,000, the largest turnout in years, and said they believed it was because Gen. David Petraeus was the featured speaker. He drew the longest, most enthusiastic standing ovation of any speaker that day.
 There was just one protestor, a white-haired woman in a wheelchair holding an 8-by-11-inch, hand-lettered sign against her chest that read, ''Bring the National Guard Home Now.''
 IF it's not antimilitary sentiment, why is R.O.T.C. still banned at these campuses? Four words: ''Don't ask, don't tell.'' The law, adopted during the Clinton administration, excludes gay men and lesbians who are open about their sexual orientation from military service. Last month, President Obama renewed a promise to get Congress to overturn the law, but set no timetable.
 While the Supreme Court ruled in 2006 that colleges accepting federal money could not restrict military recruiters on campus because of the exclusion of gays, the decision did not address R.O.T.C. 
 President Faust of Harvard, a historian, says that as much as she admires the military -- and during her June commissioning speech, she went out of her way to mention an interest she and General Petraeus shared in Ulysses S. Grant -- she cannot have a student group on campus that is closed to one part of the student body. The student handbook says that the federal law is ''inconsistent with Harvard's values as stated in its policy on discrimination.'' 
 ''Harvard commits itself to training leaders of all kinds, and we should be training leaders for the military,'' Dr. Faust said in an interview. ''We want to have students in R.O.T.C. I am the president of Harvard and I am their president and Harvard is their university. But we also have gay and lesbian students and I am their president and Harvard is their university.''
 R.O.T.C. supporters complain that Harvard's policy is full of contradictions.
 Harvard will not pay the $150,000-a-year cross-registration fee that M.I.T. charges to have Harvard students take military science courses there. But university staff members are used to raise that money from wealthy alumni sympathetic to R.O.T.C. And Harvard accepts about $1 million a year from the military in the form of scholarships that cover the cost of tuition for cadets and midshipmen.
 Further, while banning R.O.T.C., Harvard is a host to other military-oriented programs. The Kennedy School of Government there runs a yearlong National Security Fellows program for 20 men and women, a large percentage of them midcareer military officers.
 During the interview, Dr. Faust started to address each of these issues, then stopped herself. ''Trying to maintain two values -- nondiscrimination and national service -- is very complicated,'' she said. ''It has us all tied in knots. There are contradictions. We make these sometimes awkward arguments that are less than pure consistency. Why do we do x and not y? Why do we have the helicopters? Why do I appear at the commissioning? There are enormous complexities and contradictions. We wind up creating compromises that are not philosophically consistent.'' 
 ''The way to resolve these inconsistencies,'' she said, ''is to permit gays and lesbians to serve in the military.'' 
 Harvard, of course is not the only place tied up in knots over this. Despite the ban at Yale, the university provides free rental cars to its R.O.T.C. students so they can make the three-hour round trip for training at UConn. ''We try to support these young men and women as much as we can,'' Mr. Hill said.
 RUTH R. WISSE, a Harvard professor of comparative literature, has criticized the R.O.T.C. ban publicly. She calls the ''don't ask, don't tell'' argument a smokescreen for antimilitary bias and says these universities were so cowed by the antiwar protests of the '60s that they would do anything not to stir up the same issues again. She thinks President Faust was hypocritical during the 2008 ceremony when she told the five R.O.T.C. students being commissioned, ''I wish there were more of you.''
 ''I find this funny,'' Dr. Wisse said. ''Nobody has more authority to create more cadets than the president of the university.''
 Dr. Michael Segal, a neurologist and 1976 Harvard graduate who is a leader of Advocates for R.O.T.C., disagrees. He characterizes the mood at Harvard these days as ''mildly pro-military,'' and the concern about gay rights sincere. He thinks the university should welcome R.O.T.C. despite its misgivings about ''don't ask, don't tell.''
 Those who worry about excluding gays from the military are split over the best means of bringing about change. The Harvard Crimson editorial supports Dr. Faust, saying that first, President Obama should end ''don't ask, don't tell,'' and then Harvard should ''embrace R.O.T.C.'' The Brown Daily Herald says that R.O.T.C. should be brought back immediately; then students from Brown's ''overwhelmingly liberal campus'' who join the military could ''provide gay soldiers with valuable allies in the ranks.''
 As for the R.O.T.C. members, they have been trained not to answer political questions from reporters. None of the 15 interviewed would discuss their feelings about ''don't ask, don't tell.'' 
 ''I have no personal opinion,'' said Vanessa Esch, 21, a naval R.O.T.C. midshipman who graduated from M.I.T. in June. ''I was politically active in high school but as I got closer to serve, I got away from the nitty-gritty of these issues. My professionalism as an officer depends on not giving answers to those kinds of questions. The commander-in-chief does that.''
 Roxanne Bras, 22, an Army cadet from Harvard's class of 2009, called the R.O.T.C. ban just plain sad. ''It's a bad feeling when an institution you love doesn't support the other institution you love.''
 At Harvard, an Army R.O.T.C. scholarship covering full tuition is worth about $40,000 a year. In return, students typically take a military science course each semester, do physical training three times a week, spend a weekend of field training in the fall and spring at Fort Devens and a month between junior and senior year at a leadership program. When they graduate, they become second lieutenants (or ensigns in the Navy) and must serve four years of active duty followed by four years in the Reserves. 
 The military brass has tried to prod the Ivies by showing support for R.O.T.C. members at these campuses. When Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, spoke at Yale in 2007, he took an hour out of a busy schedule to meet with R.O.T.C. students. Gen. Richard Myers, a former chairman, did the same at Harvard.
 During a baccalaureate address last May at Princeton, which has campus Army and Air Force R.O.T.C., General Petraeus made a subtle jab at universities that banned their programs: ''Let me just say thank you to this Ivy League school for proudly supporting its R.O.T.C. program.'' 
 Yet even if the Harvards and Yales decided tomorrow that they wanted R.O.T.C. back, it's not clear that would happen anytime soon. Army R.O.T.C. has 273 host campuses, serving an additional 1,256 colleges; Navy R.O.T.C. has 72 hosts serving 86 additional colleges. Whether the military would welcome the holdouts as host campuses or keep them as satellites might have to be battled out politically one day. 
 The challenge of getting from Harvard and Yale to the host campuses has undoubtedly helped keep R.O.T.C. numbers low, but it is not the only factor at play. While polls show that neither the Iraq war nor the Afghan war is popular with the American people, they are most likely even less popular at these liberal campuses. 
 R.O.T.C.'s scholarships may also look less enticing at elite universities. Since the 1990s, as endowments ballooned, the Harvards, Yales and M.I.T.'s have greatly expanded their financial aid packages to reach more middle-class families. At M.I.T., 60 percent of undergraduates now receive need-based scholarships. A middle-class student can qualify for substantial aid directly from the university without having to take on the extra demands of R.O.T.C. and committing to military service after graduating. 
 But the economy could change that. Students from families that were hurt by the downturn but still do not qualify for financial aid could be drawn to the R.O.T.C. scholarship, which is one of the few substantial grants that are not need-based. 
 Indeed, there are indications that it's beginning to happen at Cornell. Lt. Col. Steven Alexander, who runs Army R.O.T.C. there, says the economy has had a noticeable impact on interest in the program. Cornell is the only Ivy land-grant university, and part of its founding mission was training military leaders. Today, it is the only Ivy that hosts Army, Navy and Air Force R.O.T.C. 
 At Cornell, there are 40 cadets enrolled in the Army R.O.T.C. program; 13 will be commissioned in May, the highest number in decades. 
 M.I.T.'s Army consortium of eight colleges grew to 84 cadets this year, from 49 in 2006. In contrast, the number of Harvard students in Army R.O.T.C. has not changed; it was 16 in 2006 and is 16 today.
 AT the Harvard commissioning ceremony, General Petraeus did not bring up the campus ban. It fell to Mr. Whitt, the former naval captain, to make the case for bringing back R.O.T.C. 
 Mr. Whitt quoted a Harvard president from another era, Abbott Lawrence Lowell. R.O.T.C. was established during World War I, and in 1916, President Lowell spoke about why it was important for Harvard and other universities to do their share: ''The aim of a country which desires to remain at peace, but must be ready to defend itself, should be to train a large body of junior officers who can look forward to no career in the Army, and can have no wish for war, yet who will be able to take their places in the field when needed.''
 To be in R.O.T.C. often requires marching to a different drummer. As Mr. Wellman headed out for early morning R.O.T.C. workouts at M.I.T., he said, he often passed students coming back to the dorm after a long night out. 
 The R.O.T.C. students interviewed felt there was a better understanding of the military at M.I.T. than at Harvard or Yale. On the Wednesdays that Boston University midshipmen join the M.I.T., Harvard and Tufts students there, 135 R.O.T.C. members are in uniform on the campus. Two Fridays a month, there are 84 cadets in Army uniforms. 
 There is more mixing going on at M.I.T. between R.O.T.C. and non-R.O.T.C. students, said Thomas Schaefer, an ensign who graduated from M.I.T. in June. ''It allows members of the campus community who would not interact with the military to get a sense of what's going on with our lives. We understand them better, they understand us better.''
 At Harvard and Yale there are so few R.O.T.C. students that on days they wear uniforms, they are mainly a curiosity. Their classmates can't seem to conceive that a student at an elite college would be preparing to go to war. Mr. West said that after explaining that he was training to be an officer, ''they'd say, 'But someone like you wouldn't be sent to Iraq or Afghanistan?' They just didn't get it.''
 Said Taylor Giffen, a Yale Air Force R.O.T.C. cadet who graduated in June, ''They'd see me in uniform, and ask, 'Hey, are you in a play?' '' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ONE OF THE FEW: Dom Pellegrini, flanked by his parents, at his commissioning at Harvard.
JUST VISITING: In Marine whites, from left, Joe Kristol, Dom Pellegrini and Daniel West with other new officers. As Harvard students, they trained at M.I.T. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOYCE DOPKEEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.ED16)
HOST CAMPUS: For Yale students, R.O.T.C. training is at the University of Connecticut, above. John Swisher, right, in an escape and evasion exercise. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TECHNICAL SGT. WARREN RICHARDS/UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT) (pg.ED17)
 BORROWED FLAGS: Officers from M.I.T. gathered the flags they lent for the Harvard commissioning ceremony. (pg.ED19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MILITARY TRAINING (78%); NAVIES (77%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (73%); AIR FORCES (73%); ENGINEERING (70%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (84%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (57%); UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (56%)

PERSON: DREW GILPIN FAUST (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (78%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (52%) CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009



3 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; SURFACING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: All Galleries on Deck!

BYLINE: By LAURA SICILIANO-ROSEN

 BODY:
NEW LONDON, in southeastern Connecticut about midway between New York and Boston, seems on paper a lot like Mystic, its neighbor to the east -- all sea views, seafood and seafaring history. But unlike that quaint (or perhaps faux quaint) town, New London is becoming as recognized for its independent art scene as for its handsome harbor. 
 Traditional fine arts have always had a place in New London, and now, despite a dearth of art buyers in the current economy, creativity prevails in the form of new galleries and events with an urban bent, often fusing art with fashion or music, or both. A short walk down Green Street, two blocks from the waterfront, reveals a cluster of new gallery-cum-boutiques. 
 Muse (102 Golden Street; 860-442-6873), opened in 2007, sells sneakers and skateboards beside rotating works of art, like industrial-looking steel pieces painted with enamel and finished with rust that were available on a recent visit. Owned by Frank Marchany, a part-time D.J., the shop also hosts monthly dance parties. Sneaker prices range from $20 for Vans to $250 for the rare 2006 Air Jordan 4 Black Cat by Nike. 
 Opposite Muse and a wildly colorful corner -- graffiti remnants of the town's second annual Urban Arts Festival in August -- is the Golden Street Gallery (94 Golden Street; 860-444-0659; www.goldenstreetgallery.com), where local artists guest-curate exhibitions, and the owner operates a small bookshop. 
 A block north, Takeout (15 Green Street; 860-442-5551; www.takeoutgallery.com) is a tiny gallery showcasing handmade clothing and regional art. Across the street, Aticc (140 Green; 860-443-2842; www.aticcshop.com) similarly focuses on clothing by local designers, including $20 silk-screened Woody Allen T-shirts, and rotates exhibits by emerging artists. Before the designer Cristin Gallagher, 25, opened Aticc in May with her boyfriend, the artist Denny Rivera, she organized fashion shows around town. 
 ''When you realize the potential New London has, you want it to grow,'' she said. ''It's like a little thrill, without the intensity of a big city.'' 
 Most prices at the Green Street-area galleries are recession-friendly. Large, dramatic pieces can be as little as $200. 
 To attract visitors, the four galleries often coordinate their exhibition openings with those of Hygienic Art (79 Bank Street; 860-443-8001; www.hygienic.org), the granddaddy of New London's indie art scene, two blocks away on the main drag. Back when it was a 24-hour restaurant in 1979, the Hygienic began hosting an annual free-for-all exhibition. When the building was scheduled for demolition in 1996, a grassroots movement saved it. In 2000, the Hygienic Art nonprofit organization was born. 
 Today, the Hygienic comprises four galleries and an artists' cooperative; in 2005, an adjacent art park was added to host music, film and theater. But the annual two-week art show, which turns 31 in January, remains its biggest affair. 
 ''It reflects the community's view of what art is, what they want to create and want people to see,'' said the artist and Hygienic volunteer Terry Davis, who signs his work ''Davo.''
 The Hygienic is no longer a restaurant, so arty locals gather at the couch-strewn Bean & Leaf Coffeehouse (13 Washington Street; 860-701-0000; www.bean-leaf.com), which itself hosts exhibitions, screenings, poetry readings and live music.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Just off the waterfront, Hygienic Art is the flagship of the growing arts scene in New London, Conn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT B. ROSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: New London, Connecticut 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); CITY LIFE (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (76%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); FASHION & APPAREL (75%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); FASHION DESIGN (75%); FASHION DESIGNERS (75%); FASHION SHOWS (75%); FESTIVALS (75%); RETAILERS (74%); CITIES (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); BOOKSTORES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (95%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



4 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; Pg. 37A

LENGTH: 1356 words

HEADLINE: Richmond and Chevron Choose Fork in the Road

BYLINE: By MALIA WOLLAN

 BODY:
Competing tours offer two very distinct ways to see the industrial city of Richmond in the East Bay. 
 A ''Toxic Tour,'' led by an environmental justice group, circles Chevron's Richmond Refinery and passes through what the group's local members call the city's ''petrochemical corridor.'' On Chevron's newly offered refinery tours, visitors don hard hats and safety glasses and hear of strict emission standards, exemplary safety records and jobs, jobs, jobs.
Chevron is the city's biggest employer and taxpayer, but in recent years its fortunes and the city's have diverged. The slowing economy trounced Richmond, while the oil price spike helped Chevron turn record profits. 
 The city and the corporation exist on entirely different scales -- Richmond, with a population of 102,120 people, is lost among its larger neighbors, Oakland and San Francisco; Chevron is a global corporation with 62,000 employees operating in more than 100 countries. 
 That prosperity gap helped galvanize segments of the population against the company that has dominated the physical, economic and psychic landscape here for more than 100 years. 
 Gayle McLaughlin, rode the anger into City Hall in 2006. Ms. McLaughlin, the city's first Green mayor, is now Chevron's avowed antagonist. As Chevron's profits climbed, it provided more fodder for her attacks. 
 Until recently, Chevron had been doing well. The second-largest oil company in the United States, it earned $23.9 billion last year, topping off five consecutive years of record profits. Though Friday's third quarter earnings report showed profits down 51 percent, Ms. McLaughlin still brandishes Chevron's financial statements like weapons.
 They contrast starkly with the poverty in this city, which has an unemployment rate of 18 percent and the third-highest crime rate per capita in the state. 
 ''It always seems really obscene to me that we have such growing profits experienced by this large oil company while people here are struggling to pay for food and rent for their families,'' the mayor said in an interview .
 A series of lawsuits and a key ballot measure passed since Ms. McLaughlin's victory show a city torn between the generally liberal, anticorporate politics of the Bay Area and its own history as a loyal company town. Environmental groups have so far been able to block a retrofit of the Chevron refinery while the city has tried to raise the company's taxes. Chevron, which says the changes to the refinery will reduce pollution, has appealed the ruling. 
 The taxes paid by the Richmond refinery account for 33 percent to 50 percent of the city's $144 million general budget this year. The refinery employs some 1,300 people, making it unclear what the city would do without Chevron. 
 But between the low profit margins for refineries across the country and the new taxes levied on the refinery, company leaders say they are considering doing without Richmond. While residents might not want anything that drastic, they do seem to want the corporation to do more for the city. Last fall, they passed a ballot initiative, Measure T, whose backers adopted the slogan ''A Fair Share for Richmond.'' 
 The measure charged businesses an additional tax of a quarter-percent of the value of the raw materials used in manufacturing. For Chevron, that additional tax was $21 million this year. In February the company filed suit in Contra Costa County Superior Court arguing that the measure violated state and federal law. 
 The suit remains unresolved, but Chevron paid the additional $21 million in April. The city kept the money, though it refrained from spending it after the judge in the case warned not to. In February the company also agreed to pay the city $28 million as part of a legal settlement after a city audit concluded that the refinery had underpaid utility taxes.
 Then, in July, another county judge halted Chevron's effort to retrofit the refinery, saying the company's environmental review was unclear on a crucial issue: whether the upgrade was designed to process a heavier grade of crude oil.
 Lawyers for the nonprofit environmental groups who filed the suit claimed that the use of ''dirtier crude'' would result in more toxic air pollution and greater danger in the case of an oil spill. 
 While many residents and community leaders are happy with the status quo and grateful for the city's economic engine, others celebrate the campaign against Chevron. 
 ''We will not accept the ongoing chemical assault on our people,'' said Dr. Henry Clark, executive director of West County Toxics Coalition, a plaintiff in the lawsuit and an organization that has long insisted that the health of area residents suffers from pollution emitted by the five refineries in the Bay Area. 
 The combination of delays in construction that could improve profits and a fight over taxes that could hurt them are likely to influence the company's decision whether to stay in the spot where Chevron has been since 1902. 
 The company does not disclose profit figures for individual refineries, but Mike Wirth, a Chevron executive vice president, said Richmond was in the ''lowest tier of earnings,'' thanks in part to its city and state tax bills. ''The government makes more money on the Richmond refinery than Chevron does,'' Mr. Wirth said. 
 ''We want to be a good partner with the city, but we also have the reality that this facility needs to be competitive and viable,'' said Mr. Wirth, adding that the site must compete with other, less regulated and taxed locales like Singapore, China and India.
 ''Refineries that don't make money don't stay open,'' he said.
 Brian Youngberg, a senior energy analyst at Edward Jones, said: ''Refining is a tough business right now with more refineries coming on line in places like China and an economic slump driving demand down. Profitability in refining is the lowest it has been in years.'' 
 Closing the Richmond refinery would probably result in higher gasoline prices on the West Coast, Mr. Youngberg said.
 Though the threat of closing is a nerve-racking backdrop for the city's tussles with the oil giant, nothing is imminent. For now, Chevron is working hard to ease the tensions in Richmond and win over the city's residents. 
 At the end of last year, the company hired a consultant to discover the root of residents' discontent with the refinery. With those survey results in hand, this year the company will spend $3 million-- double what it spent in 2008-- to support nonprofits, volunteer efforts and job training programs in the city. In an effort to demystify what goes on behind its gates, the refinery will also offer more public tours.
 A flood of employee volunteers, wearing brightly colored Chevron T-shirts, has poured into city schools, parks and soup kitchens. To communicate its message directly to residents, the refinery went digital with its own Twitter account, Facebook page and YouTube videos.
 Ms. McLaughlin said she viewed her struggle against Chevron not just as a local issue, but also as a global one. ''We have solidarity with communities in Nigeria and indigenous folks in Ecuador who are also going up against Chevron for destroying their home in the Amazon,'' she said referring to the $27 billion Ecuadorean lawsuit against Chevron. 
 For its part, Ms. McLaughlin said, Richmond is now ''a city that is growing in its awareness of its own empowerment.''
 In the midst of the hyperbole, much remains in flux: whether a judge will rule that the city can start spending the $21 million from Chevron in Measure T taxes, whether Chevron wins its appeal and completes construction on the refinery upgrade, whether the company will win over enough city residents by next fall to thwart Ms. McLaughlin's re-election.
 On the map of Chevron's global operations, Richmond clearly remains, if not a sore spot, at least a problematic venue. Mr. Wirth, of Chevron, said he traveled around the world meeting with local officials where the company operates. 
 ''Our relationships are stronger in some areas and more a work in progress in others,'' he said. ''Richmond is a work in progress.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The fortunes of the Chevron oil refinery fortunes and the city of Richmond have diverged in recent years, creating friction.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS: Chevron is Richmond's biggest employer and taxpayer. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); MAYORS (87%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); CITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CRIME RATES (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); BUDGETS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); PETROCHEMICALS (72%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (71%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); LITIGATION (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (63%); BALLOTS (60%); INTERVIEWS (60%)

COMPANY: CHEVRON CORP (93%)

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



5 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1623 words

HEADLINE: For $490,000 you get four bedrooms and three baths in Queens. But then there's this.

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH A. HARRIS

 BODY:
FIXER-UPPERS are not the darlings of the New York City real estate market right now. With so many well-groomed apartments for sale to choose from, why bother? But when there is a lot of inventory on the market, the price gap between the renovated and unrenovated often grows. 
 ''What you see now,'' said Jonathan J. Miller, the president of the appraisal firm Miller Samuel, ''is more of a premium placed on renovated space because you have more supply, more choices.'' 
 But some buyers look at a wrecked apartment and see an opportunity, not just a mess, no matter where the rest of the market is headed. Brokers say those buyers are digging through listings and searching for places that, in exchange for ''tender loving care'' or even ''divine intervention,'' provide an incentive to buy -- a good price, a great location, a spot in a renowned building or an extra bedroom. 
 ''There is more upside potential for something raw or unrenovated now, simply because fewer people want them,'' Mr. Miller said.
 A classic example of a fixer-upper is now on the market in Queens. 
 The apartment, in a 1922 Jackson Heights co-op building called the Chateau, has four bedrooms and three bathrooms and is listed for $490,000.
 ''This is the Grey Gardens of the Chateau,'' said the broker, Michael P. Carfagna of MPC Properties. ''Shabby chic,'' he added with a smile.
 The apartment has high ceilings, lots of light, a working fireplace, and nice original detail. But the floors need to be sanded and polished, the electrical wiring updated and the bathrooms and kitchen gutted. The walls, covered in a variety of elaborate wallpaper, also need work. 
 This apartment is on the second floor of the six-story building. The same size apartment in better condition on the floor below sold in May for $645,000. 
 According to Mr. Carfagna, who was the listing agent on that apartment as well, the higher-priced unit was renovated with high-end finishes about 10 years ago and has been well maintained since. The people who bought that place, he says, saw the cheaper one upstairs but decided against the hassle of a big project. 
 Rick Wohlfarth, the president of the real estate brokerage Wohlfarth & Associates in Manhattan, says most of his clients aren't interested in renovating.
 ''There are those groups who are willing to pay a little extra to just move in and put out their toothbrush,'' Mr. Wohlfarth said. ''That is the easiest way to sell an apartment in New York City, the most expeditious way. Then you have the other group of buyers who really enjoy projects.'' 
 He has a listing at 789 West End Avenue: a two-bedroom one-bathroom apartment, which will soon come on the market for $899,000. The unit, No. 12B, has views of the Hudson River and great bones, like high ceilings and solid prewar construction, but it looks as if it hadn't been touched in decades and is badly in need of renovation. 
 The electrical system needs to be updated, the floors buffed, the walls repaired and the bathroom gutted. The kitchen, which also looks ''prewar,'' needs a total overhaul. 
 To price a fixer-upper apartment like this one, Mr. Wohlfarth said, you start the way you would price any home, by looking at comparable apartments.
 A report generated by Streeteasy.com, a Web site that tracks listing data, shows that the average asking price for two-bedroom apartments on the Upper West Side is $1.1 million. 
 Then, Mr. Wohlfarth said, he deducts the renovation costs. 
 But those costs can vary significantly, and so can the discount that brokers factor in on apartments needing work. Buyers might break even -- spending the same amount after renovations that they would have to purchase an apartment in move-in condition -- or they might save some money. 
 Karen and Christian Brooks recently closed on a one-bedroom in Gramercy that needs a new kitchen, a new bathroom and perhaps new floors as well. Even with the renovation cost, they expect to spend less money than they would have if they had bought a home that was ready to go. 
 ''When we were going to see apartments,'' Ms. Brooks said, ''the renovated ones were going at a premium. And they were nice, but it was always the case that I wouldn't have picked that countertop, or it was a different type of style than I might go for.'' 
 They are waiting to hear back on bids from contractors, but they have been given some quotations on cabinets, and, Ms. Brooks says, they were lower than she had expected. 
 ''We were able to get a really nice place at a lower price,'' she said. ''And we were able to stay below jumbo numbers with the loan we got.'' 
 According to the National Association of Home Builders, an index that measures the cost of many materials used in home construction was down about 4.5 percent in September from a year earlier for single-family homes and some 6.1 percent for multifamily homes.
 Stephen Melman, the director of economic services at the association, said that at the beginning of the year, contractors' phones simply were not ringing. ''That has picked up dramatically,'' he said, ''but it's still not where it was.'' 
 Financing, it turns out, can be the trickiest part of buying a fixer-upper these days. 
 ''Banks are much tougher on the condition of an apartment,'' said Melissa Cohn, the president of the Manhattan Mortgage Company. ''The banks want to see that the apartments are complete and habitable. And it's impossible to finance renovation. You have to have the cash.'' 
 Though they can be tricky to orchestrate, deals on fixer-uppers are still being done. 
 ''It hasn't completely stopped,'' Ms. Cohn said, ''it's just much more difficult than it's ever been. Then again, everything about the world of financing is more difficult than it's ever been.'' 
 In some cases, bank financing is simply not an option for apartments that are badly in need of renovation. 
 Lee-Ann Pinder, a real estate agent with Citi Habitats, has a listing in the Hamilton Heights section of Harlem that will require intense rehabbing and an all-cash deal. 
 The apartment, a 750-square-foot two-bedroom with one bathroom, has good light and a great deal of flexibility since most of the interior walls can come down, because they are not load-bearing. The building, a co-op on 152nd Street and Convent Avenue, is income restricted at $64,500 for an individual and $73,725 for a couple --which, combined with the all-cash requirement, creates a difficult formula.
 To put the apartment within somebody's reach, the co-op, which owns the apartment, is asking $150,000. According to Streeteasy.com, there is only one apartment available in Hamilton Heights for less: a one-bedroom listed at $125,000 a few blocks away. 
 But Ms. Pinder's listing needs more than a little sprucing up. 
 The kitchen looks as if someone decided to get the necessary gutting started (where's the stove?), and some of the walls in the apartment appear to have been on the business end of an ax -- an impression advanced by the presence of a small red fire hatchet on the kitchen counter on a recent Wednesday morning. 
 ''It is a glorious mess,'' Ms. Pinder said. ''It needs to be gutted. But then you can do what you want with the space.'' 
 In some apartments, however, the configuration of space is exactly the problem. 
 There is, for example, a 2,600-square-foot duplex available for sale in the Osborne, a grand building on 57th Street and Seventh Avenue that went up in the 1880s. And it needs work.
 The apartment was cobbled together out of three smaller units -- a studio on the fifth floor and two one-bedrooms, one on the fifth floor and one on the sixth. It has three bathrooms, two small kitchens, the space for three bedrooms, and a deeply confusing layout.
 The listing agent, Deborah Gimelson of Brown Harris Stevens, says that the seller bought it in its current configuration as a pied-a-terre. She does not know who the mastermind was behind the layout. 
 ''I wish I knew,'' she said, ''because I'd really like to have a discussion with him.''
 The apartment is listed at $1.675 million, down almost $1 million from the original price of $2.6 million last year. 
 That's still a lot of money for a three-bedroom apartment, but the building tends to command a premium -- the ceilings are almost 14 feet high in some rooms and there are large, elaborate fireplaces in the shared foyers outside the apartment entrances. 
 According to Streeteasy.com, active listings in the building range from $435,000, for a 600-square-foot one-bedroom, to $4.49 million for a 3,200-square-foot four-bedroom. 
 ''People who come here really want this building,'' Ms. Gimelson said. ''But you have to like a project -- this will be a project.''
 When an apartment badly in need of renovation is for sale, the broker has to be up to the job as well. 
 ''It's a laborious task to sell unrenovated apartments,'' said Jill Jordan, a broker with Halstead Property. ''People will want to bring their architects and their mothers -- and then they want to bring everybody back! It's a long process.''
 Ms. Jordan has a listing at 27 West 55th Street for a two-bedroom apartment with one bathroom, on the eighth floor of a co-op building. 
 At $600,000, the apartment is reasonably priced, though not a steal. A renovated one-bedroom one-and-a-half-bath unit is listed for sale in the same building for $649,000. 
 Carpeting needs to be torn up and the wood floors fixed or replaced. The walls and the ceiling need work, and the kitchen and bathroom need to be gutted.
 But, she says, if done right, that work would be rewarded. 
 ''The benefit is they get to live in a nicer apartment than they can afford,'' she said. ''They're living in a better apartment than they paid for.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IN THE ROUGH: A large co-op at the Chateau in Jackson Heights has many desired prewar features like high ceilings, a working fireplace and original detail, and it is priced to sell. But the buyer will need to redo the floors and gut the outdated kitchen, among other things.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. RE1)
$1,675,000: CONFUSING LAYOUT: Apartments at the Osborne, a grand building on 57th Street, typically command premium prices, but this place, cobbled together out of three units, was reduced by almost $1 million from its original price.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID GOLDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
$150,000: 'A GLORIOUS MESS': All the rooms in this two-bedroom co-op on West 152nd Street in the Hamilton Heights section of Harlem need refurbishing
the kitchen even looks as if someone had tried to start the process by hand. A small red hatchet was recently found on one of the counters.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
$899,000: GREAT BONES: This prewar two-bedroom on West End Avenue has high ceilings and views of the Hudson River, but it hasn't been touched in years. The kitchen, though spacious, needs a complete overhaul.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHESTER HIGGINS Jr./THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 $600,000: T.L.C. NEEDED: The carpeting will have to be torn up and the wood floors repaired in this two-bedroom on West 55th Street. The place also needs a new kitchen and bathroom.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. RE8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); INTERIOR DECORATING (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



6 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; AT THE TABLE MY LITTLE PIZZERIA; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 309 words

HEADLINE: They Heeded the Call Of an Old Haunt's Slices

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

 BODY:
The unpretentious My Little Pizzeria, at 114 Court Street in the heart of Downtown Brooklyn, is clearly nothing special. It's certainly not a fancy joint or a local institution; it's just a hole in the wall, one of New York's many thousand ordinary places where ordinary people come to take a culinary breather from their ordinary lives. ALAN FEUER 
 IN THE SEATS Two sisters from Brooklyn: the older, Susan Pessin, 66, and the younger, Kathleen Weaver, who claimed that she was 39, admitted that she was lying, then refused to give her true age.
 ON THE PLATES Two warm slices of intensely gooey cheese pizza ($2.25 apiece). Ms. Weaver added several leaves of fresh basil to her slice (''I've never seen a place like this where they have it out just sitting on the counter''). Ms. Pessin opted, condiment-wise, for something a little spicier: a dusting of oregano and garlic salt.
 WHY THEY CAME Several years ago, Ms. Pessin, who is now retired, worked at a Manufacturers Hanover bank, around the corner, and often lunched at the tiny pizzeria, growing quite fond of its simple toothsome pies. She accompanied her sister to the neighborhood (''I had to go to the skin doctor,'' Ms. Weaver said. ''For a spray. For, you know'' -- whisper -- ''age spots.''), and when Ms. Pessin realized how close they were to a cherished old favorite, she practically demanded that they stop in for a slice. 
 WHAT THEY TALKED ABOUT Certainly not getting older. Returning to a place near where she had once worked, Ms. Pessin had turned her mind toward the ordeals of today's economy. ''I was talking about the good old days,'' she said, ''when I worked for Manny Hanny and they didn't have downsizing, and there weren't any layoffs, and your bosses actually cared how people felt. The '80s were the death of all that stuff. It was like the last of the feel-good decades.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NOSH: Sisters Susan Pessin, left, and Kathleen Weaver.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); LAYOFFS (61%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (68%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (68%); JPM (LSE) (68%); 8634 (TSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (68%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



7 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 279 words

HEADLINE: What Americans 'Want' in Health Insurance

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Problem With Mandates'' (Economic View, Oct. 25), in which Tyler Cowen said that while Americans may like the idea of broader health insurance coverage, ''the may not want to be forced to buy it'': 
 The issue is not that people fail to ''want'' insurance; it is that many people literally cannot get insurance at any price because insurers will not sell policies to individuals with pre-existing medical conditions. Beyond that, asserting that people don't want insurance is a bit like complaining that they don't want to pay taxes. Neither, I am sure, do such people want to be taxpayers stuck with the bill when the uninsured suffer catastrophic injuries that end up being paid for out of public funds.
 The column doesn't mention that by cutting profit out of the health care equation, we could dramatically reduce costs.
 David Tallman
 Atlanta, Oct. 27
 To the Editor:
 We read quite a bit about how America is made up of independent souls who decide what's best for themselves and don't want the government telling them what to do. Fair enough. 
 Now, let's take the argument to its logical conclusion, as applied to health insurance:
 You are young and healthy and decide not to buy insurance. When you are dragged into the emergency room after a car accident, or your appendix bursts, you should be expected to put up cash before your evaluation and treatment. If you choose not to or cannot, well, you made your decision and you should be sent home. Live by your choice, die by your choice. Is that what Americans really want? 
 Janice Wiesman, M.D.
 Marlborough, Mass., Oct. 26
 Letters for Sunday Business may be sent to sunbiz@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); INSURANCE (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); HEALTH CARE (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



8 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; METRICS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 228 words

HEADLINE: The Nuclear Wait

BYLINE: By HANNAH FAIRFIELD and KARL RUSSELL

 BODY:
With climate talks starting in Copenhagen next month, many countries are eager to report advancements in nuclear power.
 The United States now has new applications for 26 nuclear power reactors -- impressive at first glance because the industry has been at a near-standstill for 30 years. But the government approval process is lengthy, and no new building has begun. 
 Companies that design reactors, like General Electric and Westinghouse, and construction firms that build them, have experienced swift growth as countries in Europe and Asia clamor for their business.
 But the companies are concerned that the credit crisis has dealt a critical blow to nuclear power in the United States, which had been perceived as undergoing a renaissance starting in 2004.
 ''If the U.S. is going to be able to compete in the world economy in the future, we have to expand nuclear at the pace of other countries,'' said Aris Candris, chief executive of Westinghouse. ''Energy is behind every source of wealth generation.''
 Not everyone embraces expansion. Some countries are proceeding cautiously, concerned that the climate advantages may not outweigh the financial costs and environmental risks of nuclear waste.
 Nevertheless, more than 70 new plants are under construction around the world as the demand for energy -- and the aversion to carbon emissions -- continues to rise.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: A new reactor application at the Enrico Fermi Atomic Power Plant, where a partial fuel meltdown occurred in 1966. One of its reactors was later shut down
the other is still operating.
The two nuclear plants in Texas have applied to add two reactors each. Plans for a plant on a new site were quickly shelved.
The Tennessee Valley Authority plans to complete building an unfinished reactor at its Watts Bar site.(Sources: Nuclear Regulatory Commission
American Nuclear Society
Energy Information Administration
 the companies) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (92%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); EMISSIONS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); NUCLEAR WASTE (73%); APPROVALS (73%); EXECUTIVES (52%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN NUCLEAR SOCIETY (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (59%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



9 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN OXFORD, CONN.; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1476 words

HEADLINE: How Green Is Their Valley

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
ASK many Connecticut residents to describe ''the Valley'' -- the string of communities along the Naugatuck River -- and the answer is bound to include mentions of boarded-up factories.
 They would have a point. By the late 20th century, many of the brass, wire and rubber mills that once rumbled by the river's frothy waters lost work to other regions, and were shuttered.
 But one look at the Valley enclave of Oxford, 87 miles from Manhattan in New Haven County, suggests a different history. Its leafy slopes, crossed with stone walls and roads that seem no wider than deer paths, bear few traces of industrialization. In fact, in the mid-1800s, there was a devastating population drain in Oxford, according to accounts, as farmers laid down their pitchforks and decamped for those mills and their sizable paychecks.
 But that was then. Modern Oxford is undergoing a significant growth spurt. From 2000 to 2008, there was a 30 percent surge, to 12,734 residents from 9,821, according to the Council of Governments of the Central Naugatuck Valley. The state as a whole grew just 3 percent during that time. 
 Keep Oxford Green, a political action committee, sees new residents as helping to build the town's tax base. But its members are troubled by proposals to add high-density condos, apartments and trailer parks, which tend to be more affordable by nature. Ed Carver, a co-founder of the group, said the town would be better served by lower-density development, as homes with more square feet generate more property tax.
 Moreover, he asserted, residents in high-density housing usually consume more resources than they generate, and could create a new drag on the school system. The issue won't be on the ballot this Election Day, but Mr. Carver said he and the 300 who signed his petitions hoped to force a referendum this winter.
 ''There's plenty of affordable housing close by in other towns,'' said Mr. Carver, a 22-year resident and business owner who is building a 3,000-square-foot home on 8.5 acres. ''It's not as if you have to drive 30 miles away.''
 Still, Mr. Carver's opinion isn't unanimously shared. Town officials worry that without enough high-density housing, Oxford would have trouble retaining young people. And statistics show that people who live in smaller homes have fewer children, they contend, so school use shouldn't be a concern.
 Additionally, Oxford could land in trouble without more low-income housing; it has only Crestview Ridge, a 45-unit retiree complex representing 1 percent of the housing stock. The state requires that amount to be 10 percent, under a 1989 law that essentially encourages zoning boards to open their doors to builders of affordable housing. If they don't, developers can sue and win, which might result in pell-mell construction, says Herman Schuler, Oxford's economic development director.
 ''We would rather plan this,'' said Mr. Schuler, who retired to Oxford from Orange, Conn., five years ago. ''We don't want it happening randomly.'' 
 But the debate over random versus planned can seem academic when you take in Oxford's autumn beauty. The view from the window of Inge van Ark's four-bedroom three-and-a-half-bath colonial, perched at high altitude, offers gold-flecked ridges and ponds twinkling in the sun. 
 Ms. van Ark moved to Oxford from the Netherlands this year after her husband, Bart, an economist, took a job in Manhattan. The move has allowed her to indulge a quilting habit she picked up during a previous visit to the States. A local store even offers classes, in addition to threads and fabrics. 
 Two of her creations, still works in progress, are to hang in the upstairs hall of her house, which she and her husband bought for $655,000 in January.
 In Ridgefield, where she also looked, that price would have bought far less house, and in Katonah, in Westchester County, she said, any bargains would have been offset by hefty property tax bills. ''Money goes a lot further here,'' she said. ''But with the woods and lake and turning leaves, it's gorgeous living.''
 WHAT YOU'LL FIND
 New residents of Oxford, which covers 33 square miles, are concentrated in a few communities catering to people 55 and older. The most significant is the 630-acre Village at Oxford Greens, built by Pulte Homes five years ago around an 18-hole public golf course. 
 Of its 330 sharply gabled homes, 300 have sold; prices range from $389,900 to $460,000, said Tad Serrao, the sales manager. A new phase, with 105 condos, is to begin construction in 2010. 
 Oxford Greens went up on the site of a former horse farm, but agriculture is thriving elsewhere in Oxford. In 2007 the town had 47 working farms, which ranked its ZIP code 27th among 269 in the state, according to the federal Department of Agriculture.
 Schreiber's Farm, its pastures punctuated with cows and red barns, unfolds along the Eight Mile Brook in the historic Quaker Farms section. It neighbors a group of well-tended Greek Revivals, among the few examples of 19th-century architecture in Oxford.
 The town is largely made up of postwar ranches and colonials, like the kind along Thorson Road, in the wooded area near Southbury, or along Chestnut Tree Hill Road, which flanks a verdant ridge.
 Governors Hill and Academy Roads are home to several handsome center-chimney houses that date to the 18th century. Brokers say those antiques have rarely hit the market since then. 
 WHAT YOU'LL PAY
 Prices have fallen 20 percent since the peak in 2006. Through the first three-quarters of 2009, 161 sales closed, for an average price of $371,092, versus 122 homes for $458,494 three years ago, according to the Connecticut Statewide Multiple Listings Service. But even as residents debate Oxford's future affordability, the town does seem competitive. The 85 homes on the market in mid-October had an average price of $507,000, the listing service shows; nothing exceeded $850,000.
 That's a far cry from Newtown, next door, where some who end up in Oxford start their hunt. The average price there in October was $650,000, with a number of homes exceeding $1 million, said Johnathan Dias, a broker with Re/Max Preferred Properties.
 Of course, in step with the housing downturn have come short sales, which made up 10 percent of the listings this year and help explain the increased sales, said Pat Blanko, a broker with William Raveis Real Estate. She cautions prospective buyers not to expect smooth sailing on such transactions, which often require much presale back-and-forth with lenders. 
 ''They're not what they're cracked up to be,'' Ms. Blanko says.
 WHAT TO DO
 Oxford is bisected by Route 67, whose offerings are mostly limited to plazas with banks, hair salons and chain restaurants. For a nice dinner, many head to New Haven, a 25-minute drive away.
 But an offbeat option can be found closer: The 121 Restaurant has a glass-fronted dining room abutting Waterbury-Oxford Airport, which has the state's longest runway after Bradley International Airport. Corporate jets roar skyward while diners enjoy dishes like organic roast chicken ($22).
 Mountain bikers and horse riders also pass by, on the Larkin Bridle Trail, a looping 10.4-mile path built on a former train track in the 1940s, which makes it a pioneer of the rails-to-trails movement.
 THE SCHOOLS
 For kindergarten through second grade, students attend the Quaker Farms School; and third through fifth are spent at the Oxford Center School. Last year, 90 percent of fourth graders met standards in math, 82 percent in reading and 95 percent in writing, versus 85, 74 and 85 statewide.
 Ninety-two percent of eighth graders at Great Oak Middle School met state standards in math, 94percent in reading and 94 percent in writing. Statewide, those numbers were 85, 81 and 84 percent.
 Oxford High School opened in 2007. Previously, students headed to Seymour or Monroe. As the first class won't graduate until next spring, SAT averages aren't yet available. The school, which has 570 students, offers six Advanced Placement classes and three foreign languages. 
 THE COMMUTE
 One nearby train station is in Beacon Falls; the other is in Seymour. Both are on the Waterbury branch of Metro-North's New Haven line, which has two trains running to Grand Central Terminal on weekdays between 6 and 8 a.m., with a connection in either Bridgeport or Stamford. The trip takes about two hours. From Seymour the monthly fare is $355 ($347.90 online), but station parking is free, and typically plentiful.
 THE HISTORY
 In the 1700s, farmers herded livestock down Route 67 from Litchfield to New Haven, where ships waited, said Dorothy DeBisschop, the town historian. Weary travelers would rest at the Oxford Hotel, now known as the Oxford House, a multicolumned restaurant resembling Mount Vernon, while their animals sipped from the Little River.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MAKING TRACKS: Schreiber's Farm, recently the setting for a Scouts' hayride, unfolds along the Eight Mile Brook in the historic Quaker Farms section of Oxford, which in 2007 had 47 working farms.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY WENDY CARLSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS: Map details Oxford, Connecticut. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (87%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (86%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); MAMMALS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); TRAILER PARKS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); CONDOMINIUMS (70%); ZONING (70%); REFERENDUMS (70%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (70%); PROPERTY TAX (70%); HOME PRICES (70%); CHILDREN (69%); STATISTICS (67%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (66%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (66%); CITIES (65%); PUBLIC HOUSING (65%); PETITIONS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



10 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1458 words

HEADLINE: Mandates and Affordability

 BODY:
If Congress approves health care reform, virtually all Americans will be required to buy health insurance or pay a penalty. That raises a fundamental question: Will the policies be affordable? 
 People everywhere are complaining that relentlessly rising costs are making health insurance unaffordable. The situation is especially dire for millions of Americans who are uninsured, self-employed or whose employers do not offer subsidized group coverage. 
 A survey by the Commonwealth Fund found that 73 percent of the adults who tried to buy insurance on the open market over a three-year period never bought a plan -- because they could not afford it, could not find a plan that met their needs, or were turned down. 
 Pending legislation would help some of them by preventing rejections or high charges based on health status and by setting minimum benefit requirements. But many people who might still find the premiums too high will face an agonizing choice: buy insurance coverage or pay a penalty of hundreds or even thousands of dollars per family if they still decide to forgo insurance. 
 Successful reform will provide financial support for those who need it and is the only way to finally guarantee coverage for tens of millions of uninsured Americans.
 Here is a look at some of the issues behind the affordability debate:
 WHY IS A MANDATE NECESSARY? It is important that everyone be required to buy insurance, either from their employers or on new insurance exchanges. 
 Reliable studies show that people who lack insurance seldom get regular medical care and therefore suffer more severe illness and death than those who are insured. When they do get sick, they often turn to expensive emergency rooms for free care -- driving up costs for everyone else. 
 Finally, the health care reforms, which require insurers to accept all applicants, will not work well unless nearly everyone carries health insurance. Unless the pool includes a large number of healthy people, the costs for everyone on the exchange will be too high. 
 WILL PREMIUMS GO UP OR DOWN? Those forced to buy their own insurance could choose from an array of private plans -- and possibly a public plan -- that will be offered on the exchanges. There is sharp debate over whether these plans would be less or more expensive than plans that would be available on the open market. 
 Insurance industry studies contend that premiums would go up because various fees imposed on health insurers and health care providers to pay for covering the uninsured would inevitably get passed on to consumers. 
 We believe premiums would come down for several reasons. Companies would no longer need to spend as much money on administrative costs, to screen out people with pre-existing conditions (prohibited by all reform bills). If they wanted to participate on the exchanges (and have access to millions of new customers), the companies would also be forced to compete with other private plans, and possibly a public option, encouraging them to lower premiums and accept lower profits. 
 A hint of what might happen can be seen in an analysis by the Congressional Budget Office. Under a version of the Senate Finance Committee bill, the average single person would pay a $5,000 premium for a ''silver plan'' sold on the exchanges in 2016 but would pay $6,000 for a plan with less generous coverage if the reform failed. 
 WILL THERE BE HELP? Right now, only the poorest Americans get help, through the state-federal Medicaid program. The bills in both houses would expand eligibility for Medicaid to cover millions more people, and lower the contributions of the poorest Americans. 
 For those buying policies on the exchanges, perhaps 30 million people in all, the bills would provide tax-credit subsidies to help low- and middle-income people pay the premiums. People would have to pay specified percentages of their income toward the premium, ranging in the House bill from 1.5 percent for those barely above Medicaid level to 12 percent for those earning four times the poverty level, or $88,000 for a family of four. 
 That sounds like a substantial hit at the upper end -- $10,560 for a family of four before subsidies kick in. But it is comparable to what many workers are currently willing to pay for their group policies. 
 And just in case the premiums might still look unaffordable to large numbers of people, the Senate Finance Committee's version has proposed an escape hatch. No one would be required to spend more than 8 percent of their income on health insurance. They would not be insured, but they would not be fined.
 WHAT'S AFFORDABLE? No one has a clear answer, and various experts use different approaches to calculating affordability. Some estimate what people would have to pay for such other necessities as housing, food, day care, transportation and taxes, and then see how much is left over that could pay for health insurance. Others look at what people at various income levels are paying for health insurance today, without a requirement. 
 By either yardstick, Jonathan Gruber, a prominent health economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, believes that all of the pending bills in Congress would make health insurance affordable to the vast majority of Americans and that none of the bills would require anyone to buy insurance they could not afford. 
 His only concern is that the Senate Finance Committee's bill might not provide enough protection against high payments required to meet deductibles or co-payments and other out-of-pocket charges. 
 The Commonwealth Fund, a staunch advocate of health care reform, believes that the House bill meets its affordability standards (5 to 10 percent of income) for premiums required of families earning up to about $75,000 a year, while the Senate Finance panel's bill falls short at every step of the way. 
 Advocacy groups point to cases where, under the less generous Senate Finance bill, some families would have to strain to pay their premiums and would probably have to cut back on such items as clothing, various household expenses, meals eaten out, and other activities. Their plight would worsen in coming years because the amount they would have to pay toward premiums would rise faster than their wages. 
 HAS IT BEEN TRIED? We already have some experience in Massachusetts, where the state's reforms have achieved near-universal coverage and won broad support from doctors, although a surge of newly insured people has increased waiting times to see a doctor.
 Like the Congressional bills, Massachusetts requires all residents to carry health insurance or pay a penalty. The state provides somewhat more generous subsidies than the Congressional bills, although not as far up the income scale. And it has exempted some 76,000 people from the mandate because they would have to pay more than specified percentages of their income for premiums. 
 The downside is that people forced to buy insurance were often miffed at the mandate. In a 2008 poll, most Massachusetts residents strongly supported the reforms. But many still felt the reforms had harmed them personally or driven up health care costs, presumably by making them pay more for insurance than they wanted to. Their disenchantment is the price that will likely have to be paid for achieving near-universal coverage. 
 It has not sparked any widespread revolt in Massachusetts, but it could be a harbinger of how some people will feel about similar reforms at the federal level. 
 WHICH VERSION IS MORE AFFORDABLE? The House bill, unveiled last week, seems a safer bet than the Senate Finance bill (which must still be merged with another Senate bill) to make coverage affordable and widespread. 
 It has stronger penalty provisions for individuals who decline coverage, thus making it more likely that the pools on the exchanges would be large enough and varied enough to spread the risk. 
 It would require employers to offer health coverage and pay a substantial share of the premiums or face a very stiff penalty, thus easing the burden on many workers. And it would provide relatively generous subsidies. 
 Congressional leaders will have to meld the versions in coming weeks. We believe that a final bill should include a strong mandate, a public option and generous subsidies. That is the best chance of covering the maximum numbers of Americans and making insurance affordable. We believe that right now the House version does all of that best. 
 This editorial is a part of a continuing series by The New York Times that is providing a comprehensive examination of the policy challenges and politics behind the debate over health care reform. You can read all of these articles at: nytimes.com/healthcare2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); APPROVALS (89%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



11 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: Ella McPherson, Iestyn Llewellyn-Smith

 BODY:
Ella Elizabeth McPherson and George Raymond Iestyn Llewellyn-Smith were married Saturday afternoon at the Washington National Cathedral in Washington. The Rev. Stacy Williams Duncan, an Episcopal priest and the senior chaplain at the National Cathedral School, performed the ceremony. 
 The bride, 29, and bridegroom, 30, met at Cambridge University in England, from which they both received Master of Philosophy degrees, she in Latin American studies and he in real estate finance. She is also pursuing a doctorate in sociology there. 
 The bride, who will continue to use her name professionally, is a junior research fellow in sociology at Wolfson College, Cambridge. She is also a director of studies in politics, psychology, sociology and international studies at Wolfson. She graduated from Princeton.
 The bride is the daughter of Pamela Aall McPherson and Charles P. McPherson of Washington. Her father works there as a consultant in tax policy for the International Monetary Fund, and retired from the World Bank as the senior adviser for oil and gas.
 Her mother is a vice president, responsible for domestic education and training programs, at the United States Institute of Peace in Washington, a federal institution dedicated to conflict resolution. Until 2006, she was president of the executive board of Women in International Security, a nonprofit organization. 
 The bridegroom, known as Iestyn (pronounced YES-tin), works in London as a partner in Real Estate Venture Capital Management. He is responsible for financial structuring of real estate acquisitions in Europe. He graduated with first-class honors from the University of Adelaide. 
 The bridegroom is the son of Ida Jonassen Llewellyn-Smith and Michael J. Llewellyn-Smith of Adelaide, Australia. His mother is an associate professor in cardiology at Flinders University in Adelaide. His father retired as the chairman of the Development Assessment Commission, an urban planning agency for South Australia, in Adelaide. He is now a doctoral candidate in city planning at the University of Adelaide. 
 The bridegroom wore a wedding ring that was inscribed, Halloellaween, a play on the bride's first name and Halloween. In addition, the couple's invitations read: ''Black tie welcome, costumes at your discretion.'' 
 ''The time period popped into our heads because it's always been a time for celebration,'' the bride explained, noting that not only do their birthdays both fall around the holiday, but also they are fond of Halloween.
 ''It's just a normal day for all our British and Australian friends,'' she said, adding she and Mr. Llewellyn-Smith saw their wedding as ''a chance to introduce them to this great American tradition.'' 
 ROSALIE R. RADOMSKY 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAB HARLING) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); SOCIOLOGY (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (86%); HALLOWEEN (85%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); VENTURE CAPITAL (68%); CITY LIFE (62%); CITIES (62%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); UNITED STATES INSTITUTE OF PEACE (55%); US INSTITUTE OF PEACE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ADELAIDE, AUSTRALIA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) SOUTH AUSTRALIA, AUSTRALIA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%); AUSTRALIA (90%); EUROPE (75%); ENGLAND (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



12 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 2090 words

HEADLINE: The Whole Applicant

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO. 
Lisa W. Foderaro covers education for The Times.

 BODY:
PATRICIA B. TAYLOR, an assistant principal at Rye High School in Westchester County, N.Y., noticed the shift a few years ago. Public colleges and universities that were once content to crunch grade-point averages and SAT scores suddenly wanted more. They began asking for essays and recommendations, wanting to understand the academic rigor -- or lack thereof -- behind an applicant's coursework.
 ''What fortifies it for me is that they will call and ask a question about a particular student,'' Ms. Taylor says. ''When you look at an application holistically you have a clearer picture of who that student is.''
 Across the country, selective public colleges and universities are taking a page from their private counterparts and implementing what is commonly called a holistic or comprehensive admissions process. 
 The trend is partly a function of rising application numbers at sought-after publics, which is a result, in turn, of the climbing cost of private higher education and a peaking population of high school seniors. Many applicants, it seems, easily meet academic requirements. Merely pushing average grades and test scores ever higher won't necessarily yield the most vibrant student body. 
 A holistic evaluation, admissions officials say, allows the luxury of thoughtfully knitting together a multitalented student body as well as a diverse one. 
 It also counters the wave of grade inflation in American high schools that makes ranking applicants by a numerical index ''more problematic,'' says Philip Ballinger, director of admissions at the University of Washington, whose office ''took the plunge'' with the holistic approach five years ago.
 For large public institutions, the shift is labor-intensive and expensive. With cuts in state budgets putting a squeeze on spending, it's a tack that will be harder to pursue this winter. 
 For students, the evolution has meant less certainty. Colleges find themselves scrambling to explain the process to parents and high school guidance counselors who are newly anxious about a star student's chances. ''We try to be transparent, but still, the very nature of holistic review is not transparent,'' says Christine N. Van Gieson, director of admissions at the University of California, Santa Barbara. ''No one thing is going to get you in, and no one thing is going to get you out. The really top students don't have a concern, but the middle group tends to worry.''
 Santa Barbara is a vivid illustration of the swell of applications lapping against the gates of strong public universities, and the resulting increase in selectivity. In 1997, the campus admitted about 70 percent of 20,700 applicants. This fall it admitted less than half of 45,000 applicants. In the pecking order of the University of California, Santa Barbara isn't even at the apex. (That is jointly occupied by Berkeley and Los Angeles, both of which admitted only 2 of every 10 applicants this year.) 
 At Santa Barbara, the comprehensive review process was implemented in the late 1990's, and across the entire system in 2002. Susan A. Wilbur, the system's director of undergraduate admissions, says it enables the selection committee to view applicants in light of their socio-economic and educational backgrounds. 
 ''We call this 'achievement in context,' '' she says. ''We don't want to compare a student who's attending a well-resourced school with a student who may be attending a high school that offers few or no honors courses. That would be an apples-to-oranges comparison.'' 
 THE broader lens tends to help students whose statistics -- G.P.A., class rank, test score -- are less impressive but who bring something extra to the table, say, a talent or success in overcoming an obstacle. ''The pool of applicants who could benefit from holistic admissions is pretty large,'' says David A. Hawkins, director of public policy and research at the National Association for College Admission Counseling, ''and certainly that includes low-income, racial and ethnic minority and first-generation students.'' Minority students tend not to fare well on admissions exams.
 One catalyst for holistic review is the desire for a diverse student body without quotas. In 2003, the Supreme Court essentially gave universities a framework for taking race into consideration. One landmark decision favored the holistic process used by the University of Michigan's law school; another found its undergraduate admissions method, which used a system that gave points for race, unconstitutional. Sandra Day O'Connor wrote in the majority opinion of a ''highly individualized, holistic review of each applicant's file'' in which race is a factor but not ''in a mechanical way.'' Since then, Michigan voters have joined those in California, Washington and several other states in barring the use of race in college admissions.
 The anti-affirmative-action activist Ward Connerly says that ''many publics are converting to comprenhensive review in anticipation of the demise of race preferences.'' He favors the approach but objects to what he calls attempts ''to circumvent the Constitutional prohibition against the use of race'' by admitting students who fall short on academic achievement. 
 As a regent of the University of California, Mr. Connerly also acted, he says, to ''remove legacy and fat-cat preferences'' as factors in admission. ''If you're going to have a system that rewards admission on the basis of individual achievements,'' he explains, ''I concluded that it would be hypocritical to eliminate race but to keep legacies or be admitted on the strength of some donor who wanted a friend to be admitted or a relative.'' 
 Mr. Connerly was referring to the admission scandal that has roiled the University of Illinois's Urbana-Champaign campus in recent months. The Chicago Tribune uncovered a ''clout list'' of well-connected and sometimes unqualified applicants who were given special consideration; a state commission called the process ''perhaps unparalleled among universities in its level of formality and structure.'' In September, the university president resigned, and most trustees have been replaced. 
 Admissions preferences may also be at the root of a scandal at another prestigious public. With its ascension to Division I play, Binghamton University has faced a string of accusations involving the athletic department -- including sexual harassment, academic fraud and drug dealing by a player -- leading to an independent audit of the program. In an article in The New York Times in February, Dennis Lasser, who had served as a liaison between the athletic department and the admissions office, said the university had lowered its admissions standards to recruit basketball stars. 
 Still, the average SAT math/verbal score of the freshman class is an impressive 1290, up 16 points.
 The flexibility of comprehensive review makes the notion of who stands to gain murky indeed. Officials say that factors like recommendations -- from trustees, lawmakers or teachers -- are weighed in the same spirit as other nonacademic factors like community involvement, leadership and extracurricular activities. Legacy, too, can land an applicant in the yes column, with children of alumni having a slight edge. 
 In its annual surveys, the College Board asks what criteria are used, on a scale of ''very important'' to ''important'' to ''considered,'' including recommendations and ''alumni relation.'' Academics is invariably ''very important.'' But Binghamton, for example, regards recommendations as ''important'' and ''considers'' legacy status. Indiana University Bloomington ''considers'' both recommendations and legacy status. 
 ''For students who are borderline, that's something that will push them over the top,'' says Roger J. Thompson, vice provost for enrollment management at Indiana Bloomington, referring to alumni relatives. ''Likewise a strong letter of recommendation from a teacher or someone who knows the student well can make a difference. The most important thing is not particularly who sent it, but what it says about the student and his or her ability to succeed at your institution.''
 How applications to Illinois's flagship will be affected by the scandal remains to be seen. It received 26,000 applications for the current freshman class, a 20 percent increase over 2007. And it is on short lists this fall. ''There's always been interest in Champaign, always,'' says Jim Conroy, chairman of the post-high-school counseling department of New Trier High School, in Winnetka, Ill. 
 In a shaky economy there is more interest than ever in public options, he says, as long as they're flagships. ''They want the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor,'' Mr. Conroy says. ''They want the University of Wisconsin at Madison. They don't want the branch universities, and that's making these institutions even more competitive.'' 
 Mr. Conroy says his students get a fairer shake with holistic review. New Trier offers 24 Advanced Placement courses, which means ample opportunity for students to challenge themselves, something admissions officers cite over and over as desirable. ''This holistic process is giving both sides, whether you're New Trier or inner-city high, a chance to express something that isn't on a piece of paper or on a test score,'' he says. ''Everyone has a story, and now both ends -- the rich and poor -- get to express that.''
 To some extent, a system that relies on test scores and grades is still in place. Most colleges will snag the students on the very top of the bell curve, based on their statistics. ''When you see a student with 4.0 and a 1500 SAT, you don't need a group of people to go down in a cave and wait for the smoke to come out,'' Mr. Thompson says. ''We're not going to spend a lot of time reviewing those students.'' 
 With an applicant pool that has grown to 33,000 from 21,000 in four years, the average SAT score of incoming freshmen at Indiana broke the 1200 threshold for the first time this fall, up 90 points in four years. Average G.P.A. has risen to 3.7 from 3.4. 
 The university has lately attracted high school seniors in the Northeast. ''Indiana Bloomington has definitely entered the arena as a popular college choice at many of New York City's private schools,'' says Victoria Goldman, author of ''The Manhattan Family Guide to Private Schools and Selective Public Schools.'' ''People feel they can get a really good education -- and can gain admission.'' Indiana admits 73 percent of applicants, and about 37 percent of undergraduates are not state residents.
 The new profile was nurtured by its director of admissions, Mary Ellen Anderson, who for the last three years has made annual visits to about a dozen preparatory and private high schools in the New York region. 
 THE move toward holistic admissions comes as many institutions of higher education struggle with reduced budgets. The method is costly. The annual budget of the University of Washington's admissions office grew by $250,000 to support the change. ''We didn't go to the Cadillac version, to be sure,'' Mr. Ballinger says. ''But we did have to do more hiring and really increase the staff during the application read season.'' Five years ago, there were 15 to 20 readers during the peak period of December to March. That group has grown to about 70. ''There's training involved, and you have to assure that all these different readers are reading similarly,'' Mr. Ballinger says. ''It's very time-consuming to make sure it's being done well.''
 Many admissions offices supplement their staffs by hiring high school guidance counselors during the busy months. But budget cuts at the University of Florida put an end to that practice during the last admissions cycle. ''The admissions staff read a whole heck of a lot more, and we were more aggressive about recruiting the staff and faculty on our own campus to read applications,'' says Zina L. Evans, the university's associate provost for enrollment management and executive director of admissions. ''It's volunteer. They do this as good citizens of the university.'' 
 At the University of California, which is in the throes of a severe budget crisis, the Santa Barbara campus is also prospecting for volunteer readers as a way to offset the impact of a hiring freeze. ''We're six full-time staff members short right now,'' Ms. Van Gieson says. ''We're looking to cut corners without affecting the integrity of the process. It's a lot of work. 
 ''But I think it's the right thing to do.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: STUDIOUS: The average SAT score of Binghamton's freshman class is 1290, 16 points more than last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JON REIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.ED25)
BROAD LENS: Jim Conroy of New Trier High School counseling Richard Strzok and his father on strategy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER WYNN THOMPSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.ED26) GRAPHIC: Binghamton University (SUNY) LESS Hiring freeze put in place last year, leaving 300 positions vacant. State contribution down $10.5 million from 2008 to 2010
state will keep 80 percent of revenue from this year's 14 percent tuition increase . Binghamton's gain, just $1.5 million. MORE Almost 29,000 applications, a record, for current freshman class
 33 percent were admitted (39 percent in 2007). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); GRADES & GRADING (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); GRADE INFLATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (73%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (73%); BUDGETS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (93%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (85%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



13 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ARTS NEW JERSEY; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: So Much Hardship To Convey

BYLINE: By ANITA GATES

 BODY:
It's not just that John Steinbeck's 1939 novel is a Pulitzer Prize-winning masterpiece. Or that John Ford's 1940 film, with Henry Fonda as Tom Joad and Jane Darwell as Ma Joad, is a multi-award-winning classic. 
 Frank Galati's adaptation of ''The Grapes of Wrath,'' which opened on Broadway in 1990, has been hailed as a triumph in its own right. It received the Tony Award for best play, and Mr. Galati was named best director. 
 So why does the Shakespeare Theater of New Jersey's new production sometimes feel like amateur hour? Or like a middle-school social studies pageant in which the teachers have inexplicably taken over most of the roles?
 There would seem to be no better time to reflect on the trials and lessons of ''The Grapes of Wrath.'' As 2009 winds down and the Great Recession continues, countless Americans have been thrown out of their homes, are desperately searching for work or both.
 That's exactly the plight of the Joad family. As Act I begins, Tom (Christian Conn) returns home from prison; he spent four years there for killing a man, even though it was a clear act of self-defense. But when he and a former minister, Jim Casy (Pearce Bunting), arrive at the Joad house, it's deserted.
 Ma and Pa Joad (Wendy Barrie-Wilson and John Little) are staying with Uncle John (James Patrick Earley). The whole extended family is preparing to leave Oklahoma and head west to California. There, they've been told, employers are practically begging people to fill thousands of agricultural jobs, picking peaches or oranges or some other crop. In essence, the Joads, who have always been sharecroppers, are trying to flee not just the Dust Bowl but the Depression too, seeking a way to survive, preferably with dignity.
 Their heartaches are just beginning, however. Illness, death, desertion and greed visit them along the way. As beautiful as California is -- and the Joads have never seen such grand fields -- it turns out to be anything but a paradise. Good men and women descend into various kinds of ugliness.
 ''It's need that makes all the trouble,'' Casy, the former minister, observes. People wouldn't behave so badly if they weren't desperate and if they didn't feel alone.
 Tom looks on the positive side. ''A fellow ain't got a soul of his own, but only a piece of a big one.'' And then he begins the determined, inspiring ''I'll be there'' speech that ends the film (but not the book or the play). 
 At moments like these, the audience gets a glimpse of the clarity of Steinbeck's language and vision. But the glimmer quickly vanishes.
 Directed by Joe Discher, the company's associate artistic director, this ''Grapes of Wrath'' doesn't even seem to believe in itself. Maybe it's a problem of not understanding the Joads' culture and character.
 One of the most jarringly misguided bits shows itself when Casy begins preaching to the family. When Granma (Bette Moore) hears something she likes, she interjects ''Hallelujah!'' and ''Praise God!'' This sort of thing is de rigueur at old-timey country church services; a minister would feel he'd given a bad sermon if he hadn't elicited such responses. But every time Granma pipes up, Casy glances over at her as if she has lost her mind.
 Scene changes are often accompanied by country-music interludes, and a few are really enjoyable (e.g., the songs about Route 66 and used cars), but most seem disconnected and perfunctory. At times, narrators appear onstage to introduce or connect scenes. For the most part, these speeches feel assigned rather than meant.
 Well into Act II, it begins to rain heavily downstage. This special effect elicits an enormous sense of both relief and yearning, because it seems so real, compared with the production over all. 
 The most touching moment is the last one, in which Rose of Sharon (Susan Maris), who has suffered a great loss, performs a breathtakingly selfless, slightly horrifying act. 
 Jim Mohr is very good as Grampa. Alas, he bites the dust early in the game.
 ''The Grapes of Wrath,'' adapted by Frank Galati, is at the F. M. Kirby Shakespeare Theater, Drew University, 36 Madison Avenue, Madison, through Nov. 15. Information: (973) 408-5600 or shakespearenj.org. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BLEAK TIMES: The Shakespeare Theater of New Jersey is presenting ''The Grapes of Wrath,'' with Susan Maris, above left, as Rose of Sharon and Wendy Barrie-Wilson as Ma Joad. Top left, Pearce Bunting, left, as Jim Casy and Christian Conn as Tom Joad.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY GERRY GOODSTEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); AGRICULTURE (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); FAMILY (71%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (69%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); SELF DEFENSE (68%); FARM LABOR (65%); THEATER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



14 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL 2010 BUICK LACROSSE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: A Buick With Higher Aspirations

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER JENSEN

 BODY:
AS if the world needed more proof that General Motors' stars were out of alignment, the company managed to introduce some of its best cars -- true world-class competitors -- just before it tumbled into the disgrace of Chapter 11 bankruptcy. G.M. finally found the magic formula just as the momentum from decades of mediocrity carried it over the edge.
 The latest example of this belated excellence is the 2010 Buick LaCrosse, which joins other top-notch latecomers -- like the Buick Enclave, the Cadillac CTS, the GMC Acadia and the Chevrolet Malibu and Traverse -- in the newly shrunken universe of G.M. dealer showrooms. 
 If your forehead crinkles in mystification at the name LaCrosse, allow me to explain. It is Buick's midsize front-drive sedan, now available with an all-wheel-drive option. But forget the old car, which was a vehicular nonentity. The new model is quite different, and for a good reason. 
 ''LaCrosse plays a huge role in terms of changing the way people think of the Buick brand,'' said Craig Bierley, Buick's product marketing director.
 The LaCrosse was an international effort with new mechanical underpinnings that G.M. calls its ''midsize global platform.'' Developed in Europe, it was first used for the Opel Insignia, voted the 2009 Car of the Year by European auto writers.
 But Jim Federico, G.M.'s global vehicle line executive for midsize cars, says the LaCrosse is not a rebadged Insignia with a green card in the glovebox. It has an interior done by a Chinese design lab and an exterior adapted by Americans from a Chinese design, all riding on what Mr. Federico calls ''a heavily European-influenced chassis system.''
 The 2010 LaCrosse is about the same size as its predecessor, but the look is new. One interesting element is that Buick's signature ''portholes'' are on the hood, facing up, rather than on the fenders. Mr. Federico said this was no manufacturing mistake, that putting them on the side would have disrupted the design. ''It broke up the car,'' he said. ''It was not flowing. You had lost the harmony.''
 The cabin has a lovely flowing theme that manages to look fresh but not quirky. Many surfaces and panels are soft. The front seats are comfortable, and the back seat has gained about three inches of legroom, a huge increase. There's enough room for a six-foot passenger to be comfortably seated behind a six-foot driver. Since the LaCrosse is also being built and sold in China -- where the big back seat is expected to make it a midsize limo for capitalistic Communists -- G.M. had the interior done by the Pan Asia Technical Automotive Center, a joint venture with the Shanghai Automotive Industry Corporation.
 My biggest complaint about the interior: there are no trays on which something can be kept in view and easily retrieved. 
 The 13-cubic-foot trunk provides reasonable storage, although it is smaller -- by three cubic feet -- than the old model's. 
 Buick has decided that one of its brand characteristics will be hushed motoring. Even on the highway there is almost no wind noise. The sound that does intrude tends to come up from the road.
 The LaCrosse comes with all the important safety equipment, from electronic stability control to side-impact air bags. After crash-testing the LaCrosse, the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety declared it a ''top safety pick.''
 Mr. Bierley, the marketing director, says the LaCrosse is aimed at buyers in their late 40s and 50s. ''The people that we are hoping to attract do not want a soft, cushy ride,'' he said. ''They do not want to feel every bump in the road, but they want to be connected to the driving experience.'' 
 The LaCrosse team managed that tricky compromise. On a rough surface, the suspension deflects all but the worst impacts. The body is also solid and shake-free. Upward body movements are well controlled, which keeps the LaCrosse from feeling floaty, like so many Buicks of yesteryear. 
 To my knowledge nobody has ever accurately used ''agile'' and ''Buick'' in the same sentence, and though the thought crossed my mind I am reluctant to do so here. But for a front-drive two-ton vehicle, the LaCrosse is surprisingly quick to respond and feels nicely connected to the driver, although the steering could use a little more feel.
 Two months ago, Mark LaNeve, at the time G.M.'s vice president for United States sales, said quality issues at the assembly plant in Kansas City, Kan., were holding up delivery of the LaCrosse. In an e-mail message, Randal Fox, a Buick spokesman, said, ''The issues are minor (mainly fit and finish), but we want to make sure the cars are right before they're shipped.'' Last week, Mr. Fox said full-speed production had resumed by the end of September.
 The midgrade LaCrosse, the CXL, has a 255-horsepower, direct-injection 3-liter V-6 and a 6-speed automatic. The transmission's gear ratios were well chosen, assuring a quick response and strong acceleration under all conditions. The transmission is also smart enough that midway through a slow turn, just when the driver is ready to accelerate, it immediately and smoothly slips down a couple of gears.
 Cruising at 65 miles per hour in sixth gear, the engine works at a relaxed, quiet and fuel-efficient 1,400 r.p.m. The federal mileage rating is 17 miles per gallon city and 26 m.p.g. highway. That is less than the 2009 model, which got 17 m.p.g. in town and 28 on the highway with a 3.8-liter V-6 and a 4-speed automatic. But that engine had 55 less horsepower and was propelling a vehicle 500 pounds lighter.
 The fanciest LaCrosse, the CSX, comes with a 280-horsepower 3.6-liter direct-injection V-6, also with the 6-speed automatic. Oddly, its 17/27 m.p.g. rating gives it a 1 m.p.g. highway fuel economy advantage over the smaller engine. 
 Late this year, in an unusual move for a near-luxury brand, Buick will offer a direct-injection 4-cylinder (2.4 liters, 182 horsepower) as the standard engine in the base-level CX. Mr. Federico says that version is expected to go from zero to 60 m.p.h. in 9.2 seconds and deliver 20/30 m.p.g. That car is expected to cost slightly less than the current CX, which has the 3-liter and a base price of $27,835.
 The CXL starts at $30,395 and offers all-wheel drive for an additional $2,175. The CXS is $33,765 and up. 
 I tested a CXL, which is expected to account for half of LaCrosse sales. Options like a navigation system, heated and cooled front seats and a fancy stereo brought the sticker price to $35,915. What one gets for that money is a near-luxury sedan with a distinctive style that is also interesting to drive. It recognizes that while baby boomers are getting older, they still want a connection with their cars.
 The LaCrosse also means good news for the bigger picture. Not only should it help to end Buick's serial identity crisis, but its underlying structure will be used on a fistful of other G.M. vehicles, including a new Regal to be introduced next year. That bodes well for a company that just limped out of Chapter 11 and is hoping its next chapter will be a happier one.
 INSIDE TRACK: Buick gets an old-fogey-ectomy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ASIAN-AMERICAN: Designers in China, Buick's top market, had a hand in both the exterior styling and in the flowing interior of the 2010 LaCrosse. (pg. AU 1)
 PHOTOS (pg. AU 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); SEDANS (78%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (73%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (57%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (60%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (60%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (86%); EUROPE (54%); ASIA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



15 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; CONTINUING ED FOR-PROFITS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: Promises, Promises

BYLINE: By SAMANTHA STAINBURN

 BODY:
AS the recession drags on, the ads that subway riders tend to ignore suddenly seem more compelling: ''For over 30 years, 90% of all DeVry graduates had careers within six months.'' ''Earn your degree in information technology at Monroe College and you become a crucial asset to every company in every industry.'' 
 And people aren't just reading the ads; they're enrolling. In New York State, for example, the number of students at for-profit colleges in the last decade has jumped 61 percent (by contrast, the State University of New York took in 15 percent more students). 
The pitch is particularly appealing to older and low-income students, some of whom have given up on traditional publics and privates. Almost a quarter of federal Pell grant funds for needy students go to for-profit education, according to a new analysis by the research firm Student Lending Analytics. 
 ''The for-profits are concentrating 100 percent of their effort on teaching students what they want to be taught, when they want to be taught,'' says Richard Vedder, director of the Center for College Affordability and Productivity. Programs are designed around fields that need workers, like information technology, nursing and criminal justice. They operate year-round, at night and on weekends. They promise more career guidance than do cash-strapped community colleges.
 But for-profit colleges -- especially those (University of Phoenix, DeVry University) run by publicly traded companies -- invariably invoke concerns that sales, not education, is the prime mission. And that they serve a pool of vulnerable students who take on large debt and are unable to make enough to pay it back. 
 Trina Thompson, an I.T. major at Monroe's Bronx campus, became blog fodder last summer when, three months after graduating, she filed suit against her alma mater. Facing student loan repayments without a full-time job, Ms. Thompson claimed Monroe had ''not tried hard enough'' to help her. She wanted her money back. 
 Blog postings ridiculed her expectations as unrealistic: a degree does not guarantee a job, especially in a recession year. Ms. Thompson could not be reached for comment, but Monroe says she is welcome to seek help from its office of career advancement at any time, an offer extended to all its graduates for life. The college also says only 19 percent of this year's associate's and bachelor's I.T. graduates were unemployed after three months (another 30 percent were in school full time and not working). 
 Ms. Thompson's complaint, however, underscores an important consideration: For-profit colleges are not cheap, compared with public institutions. One reason is they don't get government support or collect alumni donations. Tuition at Monroe, which is family owned, costs $11,744 for two semesters, versus $3,150 for a City University of New York community college and about $5,000 in a SUNY baccalaureate program.
 According to the College Board, of four-year graduates who take out loans to attend for-profit colleges, 60 percent have amassed at least $30,000 in debt. To attend publics, only 20 percent of borrowers owe that much. And more graduates of for-profit schools default on their loans: 11 percent within the first two years, compared with 5 percent of nonprofit graduates. ''With community colleges, you probably aren't taking on huge amounts of student debt, so your life isn't ruined even if you fail out,'' says Stephen Burd, editor of the New America Foundation's Higher Ed Watch blog. ''But people who drop out of for-profit schools can end up in a nightmare situation with a huge amount of debt.''
 With the White House urging more Americans to get a college credential, experts expect for-profits to grow even more. To decide if one is worth the money, they advise, look at:
 JOB PLACEMENT Most for-profit colleges track graduates' job status, information they share as a selling point. Examine it closely. A survey with 80 percent of the class responding provides more insight than one with a 30 percent response rate. And read the small print. DeVry's Web site charts the job status of its 2008 graduates within six months. The employment rate includes those who already had jobs before graduating and excludes other students from the calculations for various reasons.
 CLASSMATES To qualify for financial aid, students without a high school diploma or G.E.D. must pass an Ability-to-Benefit exam, to demonstrate they have the skills to do postsecondary work. A high percentage of these students, or ones getting credit for ''life experience,'' signify that a college may be focused too much on bringing customers in the door, says Barmak Nassirian, an associate executive director at the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers.
 TRANSFER SUCCESS A traditional college will reject a computer science course if it's a glorified Microsoft Word workshop, or a teacher is minimally qualified. Ask for evidence that credits transfer. ''With for-profit education there is no substantive regulation of what happens in the classroom,'' Mr. Nassirian says. ''There are some good schools, but they are good voluntarily.''
 POSTGRADS If a high rate of graduates pass licensing exams, like the Nclex-RN or C.P.A., that indicates they learned something worthwhile. An active alumni association and students who refer their friends and family also suggest students believe the experience paid off. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THE D LINE: An ad for DeVry boasts its job-placement rate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TUITION FEES (77%); STUDENT EXPENSES (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (77%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (77%); STUDENT LOANS (77%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (77%); BUSINESS ANALYTICS (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); LITIGATION (74%); ALUMNI (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (68%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009



16 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; FIELD REPORT; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 2111 words

HEADLINE: Handpicked

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE MUHLKE

 BODY:
Northern California breeds food pioneers: M. F. K. Fisher, Alice Waters, Alfred Peet, for starters. But to some, a pioneering spirit means finding the next frontier. Take Sally and Don Schmitt and their family. First they put the agricultural backwater of Yountville on the culinary map with their restaurant, the French Laundry. Then they left town and spun around farm-to-table in Philo. 
 Napa Valley might seem like the stuff of ''Falcon Crest,'' but it's really farm country. It was much more so in the early '70s, when Sally Schmitt's cafe had the area's only espresso machine and she cooked meals for the gatherings of Napa's 13 vintners. The kitchen that was built for her mail-order chutney business was soon used to host theme dinners, with menus inspired by the Time-Life cooking series. After the couple took over a former French steam laundry, the meals evolved into one of the area's first set-menu restaurants -- a financially iffy move in a place where farmers loved their red-sauce Italian restaurants. On its opening night in 1978, the French Laundry served pasta with clam sauce, blanquette de veau, rice, asparagus, salad, cheese and rhubarb mousse for $12.50. 
 By the mid-'80s, the French Laundry had become a destination restaurant -- and Napa a destination. But the family was eager to find the next fringe. They began fantasizing about life in the Anderson Valley, a hard-to-reach area in Mendocino County with its own dialect and an economy that runs partly on the barter system. A real estate agent showed Don and Sally a run-down apple farm in Philo that reminded them of ''the old Napa.'' 
 ''So they called us and asked us if we wanted to be apple farmers,'' recalls Karen, one of the Schmitts' five children. ''We said yes! with no hesitation, knowing nothing about it.'' The Philo Apple Farm was born. 
 While Don and Sally continued to run the restaurant, Karen (now Bates) and her husband, Tim, drew on their small-scale organic farming knowledge to transform the 2,000 mostly Golden and Red Delicious trees into a business that reflected the family's vision and taste. The farm was soon certified organic -- they've since made a further leap to biodynamic -- and Tim set about pulling out the Red Delicious trees and grafting flavorful heirloom varieties onto the others. Soon they had Spitzenbergs, Ashmead's Kernels, King Davids, Gravensteins . . . a list that has grown to 80. 
 ''I did it for the romance,'' Tim says of his historically rich replacements, ''but it turned out to be a smart market move, because the Red Delicious are subject to market prices.'' Indeed, the romance-to-reality transition was swift: you can't make a living just picking apples. 
 For years, the French Laundry subsidized the farm. To generate off-season revenue, Karen pulled on her culinary background to get the fruit into bottles and jars. Accidents and experiments led to cider vinegar aged in wine barrels, boiled cider syrup and a balsamic-style vinegar that combined the two. Next, ''Sally brought in the chutney recipes to keep us off the streets,'' says Tim, whose mischievous air of contentment makes you want to plant apple trees. 
 In 1994, Sally and Don sold the French Laundry to a relatively unknown chef named Thomas Keller and moved to the Apple Farm. Keller says that he followed Sally's lead and ''built our philosophy on that core menu'' -- since expanded to nine courses, he said with a laugh. 
 Sally taught hands-on cooking courses in the farm's new ''dream kitchen'' and had a hand in every pot of chutney and jam. Ahead of the curve, they built guest cottages in their French peasant-meets-hippie style so that visitors could share in their fruitopia. As organics, heirloom varieties and a Napa alternative snowballed in appeal, they were booked every weekend. 
 Like the original French Laundry, the vibrant, sprawling farm ''has so much integrity and so much charm in a very understated way,'' Keller says. ''It's just a wonderful place to visit. The food is so nourishing in so many ways.'' Keller is still connected to the Schmitts: he buys apples from Don, and daughter Kathy Hoffman is his florist. For his birthday, they gave him a Pink Pearl tree -- his favorite apple. 
 ''What we're doing is pretty similar to the agritourism that they have in Italy where you have a small, diversified farm, but you're just missing an element of cash flow,'' Karen says. By cooking from the garden and sleeping among the Sierra Beauty trees, ''the satisfaction is huge, rather than just walking through and having a piece of pie,'' she says. ''You're welcome to share a little piece of our lives and hopefully be inspired by that.'' 
 The cooking classes help the family save enough for winter. Recently they've been slower to fill, and the timing is rotten: ''This year we're struggling,'' Tim says. ''With my small crop and lower apple prices -- gulp!'' 
 Prices for organic apples are being pushed down as more enter the market, and the Bateses are looking for yet more ways to stay afloat. (In 2005, Karen opened a mercantile in nearby Boonville.) ''I don't want to say that this is it,'' Tim says, ''but it could be an indicator that maybe it's time to make a more drastic move toward -- I hate to say it -- but it's more valuable in the jar than it is on the tree.'' They're taking out some trees so that their daughter Sophia can farm between the rows using draft horses, reviving an antiquated way of subsistence farming to provide food for the family. Their daughters Rita and Polly have also returned to see if they have a place on the farm. 
 Karen and Tim hope that the Bates-Schmitt legacy of food and farming will continue. Good food, rather than money, has always driven their decisions; the market has followed. But they never imagined that the definition of sustainable farming would change so quickly or drastically, to the point that small-scale farming has become a kind of luxury. ''If one of our kids married someone with a good outside job, it would be doable,'' Karen says. ''It's just that none of us has ever wanted to work off the farm.'' 
 Recipe: Curry-Glazed Duck Legs
 Adapted from Karen Bates at the Philo Apple Farm.
 6 to 8 duck legs 
 2 to 3 cloves garlic 
 1 to 2 minced jalapenos 
 2teaspoons curry powder 
 2tablespoons minced ginger 
 Grated zest of one orange 
 Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
 Extra-virgin olive oil 
 1/2cup orange juice 
 1/2cup lime juice (from about 4 limes) 
 1cup chicken stock. 
 1. Preheat the oven to 400 degrees. Rinse and pat the duck legs dry with paper towels.
 2. Using a blender or a mortar and pestle, blend the garlic, jalapenos, curry, ginger, zest and a large pinch of salt and pepper. Stir in enough olive oil to make a paste, 2 to 3 tablespoons.
 3. Rub the paste into the duck legs, season with salt and pepper and place in a large roasting pan. Roast for 1 hour to render the fat. Lower the oven temperature to 325 degrees. Pour off the fat and reserve for another use.
 4. Pour the juices and chicken stock over and around the duck pieces and cover the pan loosely with parchment paper. Return to the oven for 45 minutes to tenderize the meat. 
 5. Transfer the duck legs to a platter. Scrape the edges of the pan with a spoon to incorporate the caramelized bits into the juices. Strain. Taste the pan juices and adjust the seasoning with salt and pepper as needed. Keep warm. Just before serving, crisp the duck in a hot oven for 15 minutes. Spoon the pan juices over the duck legs and serve with apple salsa.
 Serves 6 to 8.
 Recipe: Fresh Apple Salsa
 Adapted from Karen Bates at the Philo Apple Farm.
 1/4cup lime juice (from about 2 limes) 
 2tart apples, peeled and cored 
 1small onion, finely diced 
 A handful of cilantro, roughly chopped 
 1red chili or jalapeno pepper, seeded and minced, seeds reserved 
 1poblano pepper, seeded and minced 
 2tablespoons minced ginger 
 1tablespoon sugar or apple-cider syrup (see note) 
 Salt 
 1/2cup chopped walnuts, toasted. 
 Pour the lime juice into a medium bowl. Finely dice the apples and toss with the onion in the juice. Add the cilantro, peppers, ginger and sugar and toss until well combined. Season with salt to taste. For more heat, add some of the reserved jalapeno seeds. Just before serving, add the walnuts. 
 Makes about 3 cups. 
 Note: Apple-cider syrup is available to order at philoapplefarm.com. 
 Recipe: Apple-Beet Chutney
 Adapted from ''Ad Hoc at Home,'' by Thomas Keller.
 8 ounces small to medium Chioggia beets (see note), as close in size as possible
 8 ounces small to medium golden beets, as close in size as possible
 2 tablespoons canola oil
 4 Fuji apples (about 2 pounds), peeled, cored and cut into 1/2-inch dice
 1/2 cup apple juice
 1/2 cup apple-cider vinegar
 1/2 teaspoon Dijon mustard
 1/2 teaspoon whole-grain mustard
 4 large mint leaves
 Maldon salt or other flaky sea salt.
 1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees.
 2. Wash the beets, cut off the stems and trim away any roots. Place each type of beet on a separate sheet of aluminum foil. Drizzle with the oil. Fold up the edges and crimp each to create a packet. Put the packets on a baking sheet. Cook until tender when pierced with a knife, about 50 minutes for smaller beets and 60 to 75 minutes for larger beets. Remove from the oven and let cool slightly.
 3. Once the beets are cool enough to handle, cut off the tops and use a paper towel to lightly rub the beet from the cut end toward the root to remove the skin. Cut the beets into 1/2-inch dice and set aside.
 4. Combine the apples, apple juice and vinegar in a medium saucepan. Cover and bring to a boil, then simmer, uncovered, over medium heat for 10 minutes, or until the apples are crisp-tender. Remove from the heat and stir in the beets and mustards.
 5. Using a slotted spoon, transfer the apples and beets to a 1 1/2-quart canning jar or other storage container, interspersing the mint leaves as you spoon in the fruit. Press down slightly on the compote and top with enough liquid to cover. Cover with the lid and cool to room temperature, then refrigerate for up to 1 week (it may discolor if stored any longer). Serve sprinkled with Maldon salt.
 Makes 1 quart.
 NOTE: If you cannot find Chiogga and golden beets, use 1 pound of red beets, as close in size as possible.
 Recipe: Ginger-Apple Upside-Down Cake
 Adapted from Karen Bates at the Philo Apple Farm.
 1/2 cup plus 1 tablespoon butter
 1 cup dark-brown sugar
 4 apples (about 1 3/4 pounds), peeled, cored and cut into 1/4-inch wedges.
 1/2 cup sugar
 1 egg
 3/4 cup dark molasses
 1 cup buttermilk
 2 1/4 cups flour
 1 teaspoon baking soda
 1/2 teaspoon salt
 1 teaspoon ground ginger
 1 teaspoon cinnamon
 Very softly whipped cream.
 1. Preheat the oven to 325 degrees. Grease the rim of a 10-inch cake pan with 1 tablespoon of the butter and then place it in the pan. Set the pan over very low heat and melt the butter across the bottom of the pan. Add the brown sugar and distribute evenly.
 2. Make circles of overlapping apple slices on top of the brown sugar. Chop any remaining slices and place them in the gaps.
 3. Using a mixer, blend 1/2 cup of the butter and the sugar on medium-low speed. Increase the speed to high and cream until light and fluffy.
 4. In a medium bowl, whisk together the egg, molasses and buttermilk. In a separate bowl, sift together the flour, baking soda, salt, ginger and cinnamon. Alternate mixing the flour and molasses mixtures into the butter mixture, adding the next once the last has been incorporated.
 5. Pour the batter into the pan. Bake for 45 to 50 minutes. Let cool on a rack for 10 to 15 minutes, then turn out onto a platter. Serve warm or cool with very softly whipped cream.
 Serves 12.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From left: Sophia, Polly, Tim, Rita and Karen Bates. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID LA SPINA) (pg.MM34)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES. FOOD STYLIST: JILL SANTOPIETRO.) (pg.MM35) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (93%); FAMILY (90%); APPLE ORCHARDS (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); AGRICULTURE (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (72%); GARDENING (60%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (96%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



17 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; SPENDING IT TEXTBOOKS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Bookstores And Beyond

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN. 
Tamar Lewin is an education reporter for The Times.

 BODY:
EVEN really careful planners, the ones who started saving and budgeting for college before they got to high school, are likely to gnash their teeth each semester when they head to the bookstore to buy their textbooks, only to discover that ''Molecular Biology of the Cell'' costs $215; ''Calculus: Early Transcendental Functions,'' $218; and ''Business Driven Technology,'' $202.
 Textbooks are not incidentals, like notebooks and pens. For most students, they are the largest costs after tuition, room and board. Students, on average, spend $700 to $1,000 a year; aspiring scientists, whose books tend to be the most expensive, can easily spend twice that. 
 A recent federal report found that the prices had nearly tripled from 1986 to 2004, rising an average of 6 percent a year, about double the inflation rate. Congressional leaders are not happy about this, and have been on the lookout for ways to make texts more affordable. Last year's Higher Education Opportunity Act included $10 million for grants to support textbook rental pilot programs.
 Many students who bought all their assigned books at the college bookstore as incoming freshmen eventually evolve a more frugal, eclectic approach.
 ''I spent way too much on books the first semester freshman year,'' says Alexander LaBant, a junior at American University. ''Ever since then I've been more savvy and found ways around it. Sometimes I go on Amazon or Half.com and get used books. But mostly, I'm just not buying the books. Instead I find someone in class who'll share, or I send around an e-mail asking who might want to get together, study and share their notes and books. It's a scramble around finals week, but I'm doing all right.''
 This semester, Mr. LaBant says with some triumph, he has bought only 2 of the 15 books assigned in his five courses -- one used, one cheap -- for a total of about $100. ''Even if you bought every book,'' he rationalizes, ''it would be very hard for any student to read everything that's assigned.'' 
 For those who are not prepared to go as far as Mr. LaBant, there are a variety of strategies (see facing page) to keep the book budget within reasonable bounds.
 NEW BOOKS
 Shiny new textbooks come complete with workbooks and CDs and problem sets and whatever other bells and whistles the publisher dreamed up. 
 Tip No. 1: Search by the book's ISBN number to get the assigned edition. Older editions will most likely be cheaper and have much the same content, but the page numbers probably won't match, which can make it difficult to follow assignment sheets. 
 Tip No. 2: Many new textbooks are less expensive overseas, so take a trip abroad or a trip online to a site ending in, say, ''.com.au'' (for Australian sites) or ''.co.uk'' (for British ones). 
 PRO Very easy. 
 CON Very expensive. 
 USED BOOKS 
 Discounts are not so big for used books at college bookstores, and their supplies tend to run out quickly. But Web sites are picking up the slack. Prices are all over the lot, and you could spend hours looking for the best value browsing Greentextbooks.com, Half.com, Amazon.com, CampusBooks.com, CheapestTextbooks.com, Bookfinder.com, GetTextbooks.com and dozens more. 
 There's even a comparative-shopping Web site, Bigwords.com, that also offers a free iPhone app that will search the Web for the best prices on used books.
 PRO Cheaper than new.
 CON Not all Web sites are reliable, and it can take weeks for books to arrive. 
 RENTAL BOOKS 
 Quite a few programs have started up that rent textbooks for a period of weeks or months, usually for half the purchase price. A few college bookstores have begun pilot programs, along with some publishers, most notably Cengage. Online rentals are available from Chegg.com, Textbookrentals.com, Collegebookrenter.com, Campusbookrentals.com and Textbookrentals.com.
 PRO Cost is lower if, when done, you send the book back. 
 CON If you decide you want to keep the book, you will have to pay full price, and if you write in the book, you'll have to keep it. Your net cost may be higher than buying and reselling online. 
 E-TEXTBOOKS
 Don't want to lug around heavy textbooks? It is becoming increasingly possible to get college texts via computer (Kindle, Sony reader, iPod and iPhone), often for half the cost of the print version. 
 This is the year that e-texts may finally reach critical mass. CourseSmart, a spinoff company started by major textbook publishers, now offers 7,150 titles. And Cengage provides immediate access to e-chapters for those who rent its texts. 
 With the lure of electronic note taking, built-in dictionaries and other research tools, it may be only a matter of time before the market takes off.
 PRO Portable, environmentally sound. Cheap and sometimes free.
 CON Not everything is available. The process can be complicated for those who are not tech-savvy, and even those who are may not want to add more hours of staring at a screen.
 NO BOOKS
 For the daring, or the desperate, the ultimate way to cut the book budget is simply not to buy any. The library probably keeps a few copies on reserve, and failing that, professors often have an office copy or two they will lend out. Friends and classmates may also be willing to share.
 PRO Saves big money.
 CON Can be dangerous.
 EXTRA CREDIT
 Once you've spent good money, you can sell your books back, either to the college bookstore (for a pittance) or online. Valorebooks.com is one starting point. Take that $218 ''Calculus: Early Transcendental Functions,'' which could recently be found for $108, new, on Valorebooks and for $104, used, in good condition. If you buy and resell at that rate, the net cost to you is about $4. 
 Or you can swap for the books you'll need next year at Bookins.com or Textbookrevolt.com.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: BOOKBAG: An iPhone app searches the Web for the best prices on used books. (DRAWING BY BIGWORDS.COM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOKSTORES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); TEXTBOOKS (90%); TUITION FEES (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); EDUCATION LAW (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); BIOLOGY (72%); INFLATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); BIOCHEMISTRY (72%)

COMPANY: HALF.COM INC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



18 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: Take Me Out to the Election

BYLINE: By LAUREN GRODSTEIN. 
Lauren Grodstein is the author of the forthcoming novel ''A Friend of the Family.''

DATELINE: Moorestown, N.J. 

 BODY:
 SINCE its last gubernatorial election, New Jersey's unemployment rate has nearly doubled, its home foreclosure rate has soared, and its famously scary property tax rate has bulged and raged, like the Incredible Hulk, into something even scarier. Now, on the eve of another election -- a chance to redirect, or reaffirm, the policies of their fiscally imperiled state -- my students at the Camden campus of Rutgers University have one thing on their minds: Phillies baseball.
 Monday night, as they trickled into our creative writing workshop, they made increasingly delusional prognostications about the World Series. Phillies in six, said one. Phillies in five, said another. A baseball sage took his seat in the back of the room: ''Phillies sweep.'' 
 Now, I grew up in the northern part of the state, in a family of weary Mets fans, and I'd suffered through too many defeats at the hands of brutish Yankees to allow such foolishness to stand. ''You guys have no idea what you're up against,'' I said. ''The Yankees are going to toy with you like a feral cat toys with a mouse.''
 ''Impossible,'' said Phillies Sweep.
 ''They will bat you around and knock you on your back and just when you can't take it anymore they'll bite off your head and present your body at the doorstep of George Steinbrenner.'' 
 ''You're wrong,'' said Phillies in Five.
 ''Phillies sweep,'' said Phillies Sweep.
 I care about my students, but what could I do if they wouldn't heed my warning? I was a World Series Cassandra, crying into the void. Sighing, I asked Phillies in Six to close the door so our workshop could begin.
 Rutgers-Camden is the smallest of the three Rutgers campuses, and the most intimate; my classes rarely have more than 15 students, so I get to know each one of them pretty well. I've taught a peach farmer from Hammonton and a machinist from Cinnaminson, a vet just home from Iraq and a mom who worked the night shift at an Atlantic City casino. This year, I have a psychiatric nurse in one of my classes and a poet who translates Arabic in another. My students are wonderfully diverse, just like their home state, and, for the most part, they're wonderfully smart and diligent. Some of them work two jobs to pay the ever-rising tuition.
 With each game of the Series, I think of my students staying up late, gathering at bars or at home in front of the television, happily putting off their homework for another day. They've been treated to some outstanding baseball these past two years: awesome power from Ryan Howard and Chase Utley, persnickety clutch-hitting from Jayson Werth and Shane Victorino, memorable defense from the big-mouthed Jimmy Rollins, and beautiful pitching from Cole Hamels, Cliff Lee and even Pedro Martinez, the former Met. 
 Who could blame them for paying more attention to baseball excellence than to political mediocrity?
 Every election in my students' memory, and my own, has been billed as the most pivotal in a generation, and every one has focused on the same issues. Candidates swear they'll tackle corruption, lower property taxes, and do something good about transportation and something even better about education. Although our candidates tend to come from moneyed towns like Hoboken or Oldwick, they stop for photo ops in ailing cities like Newark and Camden, stand on some benighted corner and make noise about finally fixing the culture of failure entrenched in these places. 
 But my students and I, who live or work or go to school in Camden, long for true government commitment to the city. On our way to campus, we swerve to avoid potholes and trundle past vacant lots and boarded-up homes. Not too far from our classroom sit brownfields, prisons and abandoned factories. Still, the Delaware River waterfront glitters before us, and possibility lives in each rowhouse ready to be restored. We know Camden can be, will be, better than it is, and we want our candidates to help spur us on. 
 Unfortunately, 2009's candidates for governor are not wholly inspiring on the issue. The Republican nominee, Chris Christie, takes a school-marmish tone. ''I said Camden has to solve Camden's problems.''
 Meanwhile, Gov. Jon Corzine ladles out a helpful dose of tough love. ''You may not like how it's delivered, but we are trying very hard to invest in the city of Camden, whether it's health care, education or housing.'' He adds, cheeringly, ''We are doing what we can.'' 
 Listen, everyone I know is doing what he can. Most of us are doing much more than our gubernatorial candidates.
 In years past, before Election Day, I'd give my classes a big speech about getting to the polls, taking the future into their own hands. But lately I've been thinking I might let this year's election slide without comment. If I swore to my students that voting for governor would help reinvigorate Camden, lower Rutgers tuition, increase job opportunities and make their taxes more affordable, I'd probably be as wrong as when I promised them the Yankees would win in four. It's not good for a teacher to be wrong too many times in a single semester.
 Besides, my students deserve to concentrate on their Phillies, who are proving to be a perennial success after decades of reliable failure. 
 One year, we hope to say the same thing about our state government.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HARRY CAMPBELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); CREATIVE WRITING (76%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (75%); WRITERS (70%); FAMILY (68%); CATS (66%); NURSES & NURSING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (58%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



19 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; POLITICS; Pg. 37A

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: In Race for Governor, Brown Is Hard to Ignore

BYLINE: By DANIEL WEINTRAUB. 
Daniel Weintraub has reported on California politics and policy for more than 20 years.

 BODY:
The job of California governor is a political plum. Its occupant becomes an instant household name across the country, attracts worldwide attention and is typically considered a potential candidate for president. Yet with Mayor Gavin Newsom of San Francisco's departure from the race Friday, the Democrats now have no major candidates officially in the running for the job in 2010.
 But then that ignores Jerry Brown. And you never want to ignore Mr. Brown. Even if you tried, he would not let you. 
 Mr. Brown, California's attorney general, has instantly moved from front-runner to presumptive nominee, presuming that he officially enters the race as expected.
 Mr. Brown, 71, would become the oldest person to serve as California governor if he wins the job a year from now. He was also one of the youngest to serve as governor, when he was elected in 1974 at the age of 36. After two tumultuous terms that included two failed runs for president, Mr. Brown ran unsuccessfully for the United States Senate, lost another bid for the White House, and served two terms as mayor of Oakland before winning the attorney general's job in 2006.
 In some ways, Mr. Newsom's withdrawal raises questions about California's political system, in which candidates for governor must raise tens of millions of dollars to be competitive because of the sheer size of the state and the cost of television advertising. 
 By many accounts, Mr. Newsom lacked the will to do that. Mr. Brown is a different story. His deep and longstanding ties to the party's interest groups, especially organized labor, allowed him to raise far more money than Mr. Newsom while hardly trying. Once a campaign finance reformer, Mr. Brown has morphed into a campaign finance machine.
 ''A lot of Democrats want to be governor,'' Dan Schnur, the Republican political analyst, said Friday. ''They just don't want to run against a candidate with 103 percent name recognition and all the money he will ever need to run a campaign.''
 Lt. Gov. John Garamendi withdrew earlier this year and is running for Congress instead. Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa of Los Angeles considered it but declined to run after struggling to master the job he already held. Representative Loretta Sanchez looked into it but did not take the plunge.
 But it is not just the difficulty of raising money that is limiting the Democratic field. Representative Jane Harman of Los Angeles, who ran and lost in 1998, and the businessman Steve Westly, who ran and lost in 2006, are multimillionaires who have pondered running again but stayed out. 
 One reason: the job itself is less alluring than it once was. Barring an economic miracle, whoever is elected in 2010 is going to face years of multibillion-dollar budget deficits, relentless pressure from Democrats in the Legislature to raise taxes and near unanimous opposition from Republicans to any new revenues. That could mean still more ugly spending cuts for programs Democrats value.
 ''Given how important the work is, you would think there would be more people interested in running for the job,'' the Senate leader, Darrell Steinberg, a Democrat from Sacramento, said Friday. ''I don't know if it speaks to the state of our politics, the rawness of our public discourse, or the difficulty of the challenges.''
 As strange as it might seem, though, a nomination for Mr. Brown would be consistent with the state's recent history. Every California governor in the past half-century has been either a veteran state officeholder or a celebrity. Mr. Brown is both. And the state has had only three Democratic governors since 1958: Mr. Brown's father, Edmund G. Brown; Mr. Brown; and Mr. Brown's former chief of staff, Gray Davis.
 California is the most diverse state in the union, perhaps the most diverse society on the planet. But its politics remain an insider's game with huge barriers to entry. And for the Democrats, at the moment, the biggest barrier of all is named Brown. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jerry Brown is a front-runner before even joining the race.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT GALBRAITH/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); MAYORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); BUDGETS (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (64%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (92%); JANE HARMAN (58%); LORETTA SANCHEZ (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



20 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. CANDIDATE, PRESSED BY RIGHT, ENDS UPSTATE BID

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and JEREMY W. PETERS; Suzanne Moore contributed reporting from Plattsburgh, N.Y.

 BODY:
A moderate Republican whose candidacy for an upstate New York Congressional seat had set off a storm of national conservative opposition, abruptly withdrew on Saturday, emboldening the right at a time when the Republican Party is enmeshed in a debate over how to rebuild itself.
 The candidate, Dede Scozzafava, said she was suspending her campaign in the face of collapsing support and evidence that she was heading for a loss in a three-way race on Tuesday involving Douglas L. Hoffman, running on the Conservative Party line, and Bill Owens, a Democrat. 
 Ms. Scozzafava had been under siege from conservative leaders because she supports gay rights and abortion rights and was considered too liberal on various fiscal issues.
 The Republican National Committee, which had strongly backed Ms. Scozzafava's candidacy, issued a statement applauding her decision and announcing it was now supporting Mr. Hoffman. 
 ''Effective immediately, the R.N.C. will endorse and support the Conservative candidate in the race, Doug Hoffman,'' the party's national chairman, Michael Steele, said. ''Doug's campaign will receive the financial backing of the R.N.C. and get-out-the-vote efforts to defeat Bill Owens on Tuesday.'' 
 But other prominent Republicans expressed concern that Ms. Scozzafava's decision seemed likely to unsettle the party going into next year's midterm elections, raising the prospect of more primaries against Republican candidates that they deem too moderate. Party leaders -- including Mr. Steele and Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker -- had argued that local parties should be permitted to pick candidates that most closely mirror the sentiments of the district, even if those candidates vary from Republican orthodoxy on some issues.
 ''This makes life more complicated from the standpoint of this: If we get into a cycle where every time one side loses, they run a third-party candidate, we'll make Pelosi speaker for life and guarantee Obama's re-election,'' said Mr. Gingrich, who had endorsed Ms. Scozzafava.
 ''I felt very deeply that when you have all 11 county chairman voting for someone, that it wasn't appropriate for me to come in and render my judgment,'' he said. ''I think we are going to get into a very difficult environment around the country if suddenly conservative leaders decide they are going to anoint people without regard to local primaries and local choices.''
 Ms. Scozzafava, a state assemblywoman and former small-town mayor, was nominated this summer by Republican county leaders who quickly found their choice second-guessed by the party's conservative wing. Many officials in the district, a vast expanse from the Vermont border through the Adirondacks to Lake Ontario, were deeply resentful of the outside involvement. 
 ''They're trying to bang 435 elections across the United States into the same mold,'' said James Ellis, chairman of the Franklin County Republican Party. ''It's a detriment to democracy.''
 Ms. Scozzafava's withdrawal leaves a clear two-way race between Mr. Hoffman and Mr. Owens, a Plattsburgh lawyer. As such, the contest on Tuesday could offer a test of the debate that Republican leaders are having: whether it needs to adjust itself ideologically to expand its appeal to places like New York. 
 Mr. Hoffman, though running as a Conservative, had been endorsed by some Republican luminaries, including Sarah Palin, the party's 2008 vice presidential nominee, and Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota, a likely candidate for president in 2012. The swell of opposition to Ms. Scozzafava was reflected on conservative radio talk shows and in a heavy diet of television advertising supporting Mr. Hoffman that was financed by conservative groups.
 Ms. Scozzafava did not say whom, if anyone, she would endorse. Polls in the district showed that Mr. Owens and Mr. Hoffman were each drawing about 35 percent of the vote; several Republicans said that at least in theory, her withdrawal should help Mr. Hoffman as Republican voters join his campaign.
 The district has been solidly Republican since the 19th century and had been represented by Representative John M. McHugh, who stepped down after Mr. Obama named him secretary of the Army.
 ''In recent days, polls have indicated that my chances of winning this election are not as strong as we would like them to be,'' Ms. Scozzafava said in a statement. ''The reality that I've come to accept is that in today's political arena, you must be able to back up your message with money -- and as I've been outspent on both sides, I've been unable to effectively address many of the charges that have been made about my record.''
 The decision by Ms. Scozzafava to suspend her campaign is a clear victory for conservatives in the party at a time when there has been a pitched battle among party leaders over whether Republicans needed to change their ideological appeal as part of an effort to recover from the losses of 2006 and 2008.
 Ms. Scozzafava fit the model of candidate advocated by Republican leaders like Mr. Steele and Senator John Cornyn of Texas: one whose views might not be in keeping with much of the national party, but are more reflective of the district in question.
 A primary is unfolding in Florida, where Gov. Charlie Crist, who is running for the Senate, is facing a challenge from a conservative, Marco Rubio, the former Florida House speaker. Mr. Crist has come under fire from conservatives for, among other things, supporting Mr. Obama on his economic stimulus package.
 Republican officials said that Ms. Scozzafava decided to drop out after reviewing private and public polls that convinced her that she was going to come in third place.
 One Republican who had spoken to Ms. Scozzafava about her decision said that she was concerned her candidacy was too divisive for the party and that the decision was hers alone.
 ''She didn't want to be labeled as a spoiler,'' said the person, who requested anonymity because private conversations were involved.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: After withdrawing, Dede Scozzafava did not say whom, if anyone, she would endorse.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HEATHER AINSWORTH/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A36) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); MAYORS (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); COUNTIES (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); GAYS & LESBIANS (70%); LGBT RIGHTS (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (65%); LAKES (60%); ABORTION (55%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (58%); MICHAEL STEELE (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); LAKE ONTARIO (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



21 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey: Methods Have Switched Both Ways

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
While a vast majority of the state's nearly 600 school districts have elected boards, the debate continues about which method of selecting members is right for a particular community. Referendums to change from an appointed to an elected board -- or vice versa -- surface every few years. 
 Englewood was the last district to make the change from appointed to elected school board, in 2000, according to the New Jersey School Boards Association. Other such districts include Sea Isle City (1998); Edison Township (1992); and Hackensack (1990). 
 Districts that switched the other way, to appointed boards, include Rockleigh (2004) and Union City (1991). 
 On Tuesday, Montclair and Beverly, along the Delaware River, will be the latest to put the issue to a vote. Both districts have school boards appointed by their mayors.
 Robert D. Thibault, the Beverly school board president, said that as the economy has soured, more residents have pushed for direct school elections. ''This is in response to residents who want input on how their tax dollars are being spent,'' said Mr. Thibault, who says he believes an elected board would be more democratic.
 Frank Belluscio, a spokesman for the school boards association, said that it saw no correlation between school boards' effectiveness and how they were selected. ''We don't see any difference,'' he said. ''The boards of education are still governed by the same regulations and the same statutes.''
 Regardless of how the boards are chosen, the association favors eliminating school budget votes, since recent state laws cap increases in the school tax to 4 percent a year and require all budgets to be reviewed by an executive county superintendent. WINNIE HU 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL BOARDS (93%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); BOARD CHANGES (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); REFERENDUMS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); BUDGETS (88%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MAYORS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



22 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: A New Health Policy for Chronic Fatigue Syndrome

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''A Case of Chronic Denial,'' by Hillary Johnson (Op-Ed, Oct. 21), about chronic fatigue syndrome:
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates that one million to four million people in the United States have chronic fatigue syndrome, with approximately 80 percent of these cases undiagnosed. Furthermore, the C.D.C. has indicated that chronic fatigue syndrome is a debilitating illness with a yearly economic impact of at least $9.1 billion. 
 Despite its prevalence, morbidity and economic impact, chronic fatigue syndrome ranks near the bottom in federal research funding of more than 200 diseases and conditions. 
 In 25 years of research on chronic fatigue syndrome, no demonstrable progress has been made in identifying objective criteria for diagnosis and treatment. Nor have physicians been properly educated to care for these patients. 
 The illness continues to be stigmatized as frank malingering or a nonserious psychiatric disorder. It is time for a thorough overhaul of public health policy toward this debilitating illness.
 Fred Friedberg Stony Brook, N.Y., Oct. 23, 2009
 The writer is president of the International Association for Chronic Fatigue Syndrome.
 To the Editor:
 I have long been struck by how similar chronic fatigue syndrome (or myalgic encephalomyelitis) is to the pathologies of gulf war syndrome, the illnesses of people subjected to low-level radiation exposure, and the maladies that plague communities near coal operations. 
 It seems clear that major shocks to the human system -- particularly the immune, neurological and endocrine systems -- can be delivered through toxic exposure, infectious agents and other extreme stressors. And once these systems are hit with sufficiently large impact, they can set off broad systemic collapse. Think of it as the human body version of a nuclear plant meltdown.
 Whatever the findings of continuing research, adequate treatment mandates a health care system that provides far more effective management and active collaboration among consultant specialists than the current United States system typically provides.
 Michel Lee Scarsdale, N.Y., Oct. 21, 2009
 The writer, a lawyer, is a senior adviser to the public interest organization Public Health and Sustainable Energy and formerly served on a panel of lawyers and doctors concerned about the inadequacy of regulatory standards to protect public health from the effects of environmental toxins.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRONIC FATIGUE SYNDROME (94%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (92%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); CHRONIC DISEASES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); HEALTH CARE (73%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (72%); MENTAL ILLNESS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (70%); ENDOCRINOLOGY (70%); RANKINGS (70%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (65%); POWER PLANTS (64%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (50%); COAL INDUSTRY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



23 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: Employer Mandate Becomes Sticky Issue In Reconciling Bills

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
Of all the elements of a health care bill that the Senate and House will have to reconcile, one of the thorniest is the issue of the so-called employer mandate. To what degree will Congress require employers to provide health insurance for their employees?
 The three operative bills in Congress -- one unveiled in the House on Thursday, and two in the Senate that are being merged into one -- take different approaches. 
 Like the House bill, the Senate health committee's bill requires employers, except for many small businesses, to offer coverage to their workers and pay a substantial share of the cost of their premiums, or face a financial penalty. But the Senate Finance Committee's bill has no requirement on employers, though it does impose a penalty for those who do nothing. All of which means the majority leader, Harry Reid, has a big gap to bridge in trying to reconcile the two Senate bills.
 The concept of employer-provided health insurance traces to the World War II era, when wage and price controls prevented companies from competing for workers by offering higher wages. Instead, they competed by offering health and benefits packages. The idea took such hold that today health insurance is viewed as an essential tool for recruiting and retaining workers.
 About 60 percent of Americans at big companies now get their health insurance through their employers. And most large employers pay almost three-fourths of the cost of each employee's premium. Those workers will see little effect from an employer mandate.
 ''Those who are likely to be affected are those who work at smaller firms where coverage isn't as comprehensive and their employer doesn't subsidize much of the premium cost,'' said Elizabeth McGlynn, associate director of RAND Health, a division of the RAND Corporation.
 Uncertain Effects
 At such workplaces, the changes could go either way -- improved coverage or, conceivably, no coverage. Experts are betting that some of those employers will opt to pay the penalty for not providing benefits, rather than invest in the more expensive health coverage the legislation might require. 
 Ms. McGlynn estimates that the Senate health bill, for example, would provide insurance to about 22 million people who do not have it now and that the employer mandate would account for 6 million of the newly insured. (The rest would get insurance through an exchange set up under the bills.)
 But, she said, under the same bill, between 2.3 million and 2.6 million businesses -- about a third of all in the country -- would either be exempt or would opt to pay the penalty rather than offer insurance.
 And for employers compelled by the mandate to add or enhance coverage, she said, the higher costs might very likely be passed on to consumers of their products or services, or prompt them to hire few workers.
 Worker-Friendly 
 Of the three bills in Congress, the House version is generally viewed as the most worker-friendly. It would require employers to pay 72.5 percent of the costs of benefits for employees who are single, and 65 percent for employees with families. It would exact penalties for non-compliance on a sliding scale depending on the size of a company's payroll, going up to 8 percent for those with a payroll over $750,000.
 The House bill would exempt small businesses if they had a payroll of less than $500,000. That amount is twice the threshold that the House had provided in earlier legislation, a response to the outcry from small businesses that a mandate would be an excessive burden and could force them to lay off workers.
 As a result of the higher level, the House estimates that 86 percent of small businesses would be exempt from the mandate -- which some say is too big an exemption. 
 ''It troubles us that it has this cut-off,'' said Gerry Shea, assistant to the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. ''You should have all businesses participate, with appropriate subsidies for those who are financially marginal.''
 Still, those businesses and their employees could get insurance on the exchange.
 The bill produced by the Senate health committee would require employers to offer coverage and pay 60 percent of the premium or pay a penalty of $750 for each uninsured full-time employee. It would exempt employers with fewer than 25 employees. It would also provide credits to small businesses.
 The Finance Committee bill provides no explicit employer mandate. But it includes a complicated provision that would require companies with more than 50 employees that do not offer insurance to pay a fine for each of its workers who gets a government subsidy to buy health insurance. So the Finance Committee bill in effect could encourage employers to hire people who already make enough to afford health insurance or to dump low-wage workers who would qualify for the subsidy.
 The concern over both Senate bills is that the penalty is so low that some companies might choose to pay it rather than provide insurance.
 ''At 750 bucks a head, the employer community might just say, 'Go ahead and fine me, I'm getting out,' '' said R. Bruce Josten, executive vice president of the United States Chamber of Commerce. ''And then you blow the entire system up.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ford built jeeps in World War II, when companies used health and benefits packages to compete for workers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FORD MOTOR COMPANY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (69%); WORLD WAR II (67%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (64%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (64%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



24 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: Business Best Sellers

 BODY:
HARDCOVER
 1 1 OUTLIERS by Malcolm Gladwell (Little, Brown, $27.99). How luck and opportunity, in addition to talent, help people succeed. 2 -- SUPERFREAKONOMICS by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow/HarperCollins, $29.99). In this sequel, a scholar and a journalist apply economic thinking to everything. 
3 -- JIM CRAMER'S GETTING BACK TO EVEN by James J. Cramer with Cliff Mason. (Simon & Schuster, $26). The ''Mad Money'' host offers advice for investing in a changed market. () 4 -- TOO BIG TO FAIL by Andrew Ross Sorkin. (Viking, $32.95). The 2008 financial implosion on Wall Street and in Washington, by a New York Times reporter and columnist. 5 -- CRUSH IT! by Gary Vaynerchuk. (HarperStudio/HarperCollins, $19.99). How the Web can help turn your passion into a business. () 6 11 WHAT AMERICANS REALLY WANT . . . REALLY by Frank I. Luntz (Hyperion, $24.99). How better business decisions can be made when customers' demands are understood. 7 5 THE TOTAL MONEY MAKEOVER by Dave Ramsey (Thomas Nelson, $24.99). Fiscal fitness for families. () 8 4 THE 50TH LAWby 50 Cent and Robert Greene (HarperStudio/ HarperCollins, $19.99). Conquering fear to attain power. () 9 -- THE TRUMP CARD by Ivanka Trump. (Touchstone, $24.99). Business lessons from the daughter of Donald Trump. () 10* 2 THE HEALING OF AMERICA by T. R. Reid (Penguin Press, $25.95). How other industrialized democracies provide health care for all.
 P A P E R B A C K
 1 1 FREAKONOMICS by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner (Harper Perennial, $15.99). The economics behind the events of daily life. 2 2 THE TIPPING POINT by Malcolm Gladwell (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $14.95). How certain products and ideas become fads. 3 3 THE SEVEN HABITS OF HIGHLY EFFECTIVE PEOPLE by Stephen R. Covey (Free Press, $15.95). Principles for success. () 4* 4 GETTING THINGS DONE by David Allen (Penguin, $15). Reducing stress and aiding performance. () 5 9 RICH DAD'S CONSPIRACY OF THE RICH by Robert T. Kiyosaki (Business Plus, $12.99).Money lessons gleaned during the financial crisis. ()
 Rankings are based on October figures at many thousands of venues where a wide range of general interest books are sold nationwide. These include hundreds of independent book retailers (statistically weighted to represent all such outlets); national, regional and local chains; online and multimedia entertainment retailers; university, gift, supermarket, discount and department stores; and newsstands. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (89%); BOOK SALES (89%); BOOKSTORES (89%); RETAILERS (83%); JOURNALISM (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (62%); RANKINGS (50%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

PERSON: JIM CRAMER (71%); DONALD TRUMP (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



25 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; THE PUBLIC EDITOR; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: Recession, Revolution and a Leaner Times

BYLINE: By CLARK HOYT. 
The public editor can be reached by e-mail: public@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IN his autobiography ''The Good Times,'' Russell Baker described the Times newsroom he joined in 1954 as ''comically overstaffed.'' Baker, a Pulitzer Prize-winning Washington reporter and columnist, quoted a colleague's explanation for all the idle reporters playing bridge and working crossword puzzles:
 Adolph Ochs, who bought The Times in 1896 and turned it into a colossus of journalism, ''always liked to have enough people around to cover the story when the Titanic sinks,'' said Meyer Berger, a legendary Times reporter. 
 The era of playing cards and reading Dostoyevsky while waiting for the big assignment is long gone. Today's Times is a 24-hour operation producing a printed newspaper and a rapidly growing Web site -- all while cutting staff and costs in the face of a deep recession and a revolution transforming the news business. 
 Though The Times retains the largest newsroom of any American paper -- 1,250 reporters, photographers, editors, columnists, graphic artists, Web producers, videographers and more -- it is about to cut 100 people through voluntary buyouts and, if needed, layoffs that would happen in the weeks before Christmas. Editors say they are determined to minimize the impact on readers, but some of those readers are worried. ''Please, please, please resist those cuts,'' wrote Deborah Holdstein of Oak Park, Ill. 
 The Times is hardly alone in its pain and is cutting far less than others, as a matter of strategy to keep investing heavily in its journalism. From The Baltimore Sun, down to 150 journalists from 400, to The Los Angeles Times, where a staff of more than 1,100 has been cut nearly in half, newsrooms are shrinking at an alarming rate. Last week alone, The Wall Street Journal announced it was closing its Boston bureau, and Michael Calderone reported on Politico that the Associated Press may have to resort to layoffs to reduce its payroll by 10 percent by the end of the year.
 Rick Edmonds, a scholar at the Poynter Institute, a journalism training center in Florida, estimated last month that newspapers have reduced spending on journalism by $1.6 billion a year over the past several years.
 The timing of The Times's latest cuts came as a surprise. Bill Keller, the executive editor, said that after 100 buyouts and layoffs at the start of last year and a temporary 5 percent pay cut for everyone this year, he had hoped to avoid further staffing reductions until next year. But he said that under the contract with the Newspaper Guild, the newsroom union, members leaving the company after Jan. 1 would have been entitled to a full year's vacation pay. With advertising revenue still falling, that would have meant 10 more buyouts or layoffs to meet the budget.
 Keller said he is determined to avoid closing foreign or national bureaus and does not expect significant cuts in Washington. ''Washington, news-wise, is the center of the universe at the moment,'' Keller said. He said editors are studying the flow of news copy to see if some editing slots can be eliminated, and they will look at the 70 blogs on the paper's Web site to see if any are not justifying themselves. More radical moves, like dropping the sports section, have been rejected because they would undermine the quality of The Times or would not save much money, Keller said.
 The Times has already made the easier decisions -- reducing the support staff, cutting freelance budgets, capping expense-account meals, seeking bargain airfares and hotels, rotating foreign correspondents every five years instead of four, and housing some bureaus in correspondents' homes rather than downtown offices. The nice car and driver for the London bureau chief? History. 
 William Schmidt, the deputy managing editor in charge of the newsroom budget, said editors are focused on preserving core coverage: national, foreign, business, and culture and arts. Over the past 10 years, the paper has added seven national correspondents and 10 foreign correspondents, and has expanded the Washington bureau and the business news department. The paper is spending more than $4 million a year to feed, house and protect its journalists in war zones, Schmidt said.
 Meanwhile, the metro staff, with more than 60 reporters, is still the largest, but it has been reduced by nearly 20 percent over a decade. The paper, for example, no longer has correspondents in the state capitals of New Jersey and Connecticut.
 Technology, which has led to the flight of readers and advertisers from print, has also drastically reshaped the newsroom. For instance, there is no longer a photo lab with a dozen technicians developing film, but there are a dozen videographers shooting for the Web site. 
 Still, newsroom managers say the changes offer hope for savings in some areas, like the editing process. Susan Edgerley, an assistant managing editor in charge of figuring out more efficient copy flow, said that when she started at The Times as a copy editor 20 years ago, she had little to do -- like those reporters waiting around in 1954 -- until the 9 p.m. deadline, when most of the copy for the next day's paper landed at once. Copy editors were suddenly swamped, and the potential for mistakes was high. 
 Now, with an around-the-clock news cycle, reporters file throughout the day, and copy can be edited over a smoother cycle, she said. That is the goal, but the editing staff is dealing with much more copy than before, some online articles are now read by a single editor instead of four or five, and I hear regularly from readers complaining about errors in grammar, spelling and word usage.
 When the latest cuts were announced, hundreds of readers thought they had a better answer: charge online readers. ''I have my credit card ready,'' wrote Anne Hills of Windham, Maine. Cullen Howe of Manhattan said, ''Why not go this route rather than enact cuts that will certainly affect the quality of the reporting?''
 Scott Heekin-Canedy, the newspaper's president and general manager, told me in June that a decision about charging online readers would be made by late summer. But he said last week that executives were still studying the issue. Lauren Rich Fine, a professor at Kent State University and a former analyst of media companies for Merrill Lynch, said The Times should move ahead with charging for at least some online content. Delaying, she said, is ''not smart.''
 Keller said: ''It's a much tougher, more complicated decision than it seems to all the armchair experts. There is no clear consensus on the right way to go.'' At stake are millions of dollars from online advertisers who want the largest possible number of readers. Putting up any kind of pay wall has the potential to drive away readers and some of those dollars.
 Arthur Sulzberger Jr., the publisher, said the newsroom cuts and a decision about charging online readers are entirely separate issues. The cuts are ''meant to address the immediate, short-term realities of our current economic situation.'' Charging for online content, he said, is a strategic issue that ''would have little or no impact on our financial results in the short term, but rather position us differently for long-term growth.''
 Stay tuned. Keller said his guess is, ''We're within weeks of a decision.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); WRITERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (88%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); BUDGETS (73%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (68%); VISUAL ARTS (67%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (66%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (53%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



26 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: Shaping Up, Maybe

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
The gross domestic product grew last quarter, it was announced last week, raising the question: What would a recovery look like? ''Unfortunately,'' says John Ryding, chief economist at RDQ Economics, ''you have as many views of the economy going forward as you have letters of the alphabet to describe recovery.'' 
 Here are a few possibilities.
 A V-SHAPE RECESSION is a best-case scenario. It refers to cases when the economy snaps back as quickly and steeply as it fell. The recession of the mid-1950s is a good example: Output dropped for three straight quarters, but then not too long afterward rocketed back up at rates of 8.3 percent and then 12 percent. Few economists are predicting a V-shape this time around, since consumers and job seekers are still facing pretty strong headwinds. 
 AN L-SHAPE RECESSION, also known as a ''hockey stick'' recession, is probably the most worrisome of all. It means that once the economy plunges, it stays down for a long, long time. The typical example is the Japanese economy in the 1990s, which stagnated for a ''lost decade'' after an asset bubble burst. Because the current American recession was also triggered by an asset bubble, some economists had worried that the United States might be doomed to a fate like Japan's. But last week's output report has given hope that the American economy might bounce back after all. 
 A W-SHAPE RECESSION also has plenty of other gimmicky names, including ''double-dip,'' ''second leg down'' and ''roller-coaster recession.'' These all refer to downturns that become upturns but then revert to downturns again. Think of the twin recessions of the 1980s: The economy ''dipped'' in 1980, appeared to recover, and then ''dipped'' once again. Some economists fear that this kind of ''second leg down'' may be lurking behind the good news last week. 
 A U-SHAPE RECESSION is somewhere between a V and an L. It describes a long, tedious recession with a bottom that's hard to decipher. Some economists say this could happen if the economy stagnates. Simon Johnson, the former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, once compared this recession shape to a bathtub: ''You go in. You stay in. The sides are slippery. You know, maybe there's some bumpy stuff in the bottom, but you don't come out of the bathtub for a long time.'' The sluggish downturn of the mid-1970s was a U-shape. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY JULIAN HONORE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); RECESSION (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (65%); EMPLOYMENT (54%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



27 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: Reading File

BYLINE: Compiled by THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
A Mantra for Some: Hey! Hey! Ho! Ho!
 Protesters may be angry, but protesting also makes them happy, writes Drake Bennett in The Boston Globe:
 Activists are dissatisfied with the drift of the times and outraged at the misdeeds of their ideological enemies. But they are also, it turns out, enjoying their lives more than the rest of us. At least if recent research is to be believed, political activism, no matter the cause, seems to make people happy -- even if they don't win an election or triumph in a ballot initiative. Psychologists curious about what fuels human happiness have looked at political engagement and political activism, and they've found that it provides people with a sense of empowerment, of community, of freedom, and of transcendence. Political activists, in other words, are all happy warriors. 
 Many Cultures, One Tongue 
 ''Would it be inherently evil if there were not 6,000 spoken languages but one?'' asks John McWhorter in the journal World Affairs. The linguist and commentator says it doesn't make sense to try to save dying languages:
 At the end of the day, language death is, ironically, a symptom of people coming together. Globalization means hitherto isolated peoples migrating and sharing space. For them to do so and still maintain distinct languages across generations happens only amidst unusually tenacious self-isolation such as that of the Amish or brutal segregation. (Jews did not speak Yiddish in order to revel in their diversity but because they lived in an apartheid society.) Crucially, it is black Americans, the Americans whose English is most distinct from that of the mainstream, who are the ones most likely to live separately from whites geographically and spiritually.
 The alternative, it would seem, is indigenous groups left to live in isolation complete with the maltreatment of women and lack of access to modern medicine and technology typical of such societies.
 Workwear Couture
 ''Never has it cost so much to look like you're just coming home from the mill or the assembly line,'' writes Greg Beato on the Smart Set blog. In the midst of a recession, he says, red America and blue America have come together, in a way, through ''workwear couture'':
 If it seems a little ironic that slender urban saplings are dressing like Paul Bunyan and the Marlboro Man, well, so what? In these increasingly polarized times, when one half of America thinks President Obama is the second coming of Adolf Hitler and the other half won't be truly satisfied until we prosecute everyone from Dubya on down to Laura Bush for war crimes, it's actually kind of nice to see bearded blue-state hipsters dressing like men who slaughter cattle and clear-cut forests for a living.
 Turn Off the Music, Please
 More and more hotels, restaurants, and retailers are adopting bad music as a branding device, writes Peter Jon Lindberg in Travel & Leisure: 
 It would be revealing to compile an alternative history of Western music, focused solely on Songs Played in Hotel Lobbies and Cruise-Ship Corridors Through the Ages. You'd document a bizarro parallel universe, one where Michael McDonald is more popular than Led Zeppelin and Vivaldi's ''Four Seasons'' trumps everything by Mozart. The Eagles would be more revered than Dylan; Jamiroquai bigger than Springsteen. And at the top of the pyramid, with her Nagel-print cheekbones, would sit Sade.
 Complaints? They've Got Plenty
 Former Vice President Dick Cheney is hardly the first vice president to criticize a sitting president, says Christopher Beam at Slate.com: 
 There's a proud tradition of former executive-branch leaders disparaging sitting presidents. The most notorious example--the ur-ex-presidential critic--is Herbert Hoover. After losing the presidency to Franklin Delano Roosevelt in 1932, Hoover spent the next nine years railing on him... But Hoover wasn't even the first. Presidential and vice presidential disputes stretch back to the founders.... Indeed, carping is often seen as part of the job of ex-vice presidents--after all, they may have presidential ambitions of their own. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANCIENT & EXTINCT LANGUAGES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); LINGUISTICS (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); BALLOTS (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (71%); REFERENDUMS (70%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (67%); JEWS & JUDAISM (64%); RECESSION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



28 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2310 words

HEADLINE: Say 'I Do' To Rock

BYLINE: By BRETT MARTIN

 BODY:
THE odd thing about attending a wedding at which you know nobody is how identical it is to attending a wedding at which you know everybody. 
 So it was last month, beneath the gleaming ornate ceilings of the restaurant Gilt, at the Palace Hotel in New York, where Jane Danziger and Jonathan Spiegel were about to celebrate their new union. Brigades of black-clad servers glided through the three wood-paneled rooms, applying final polish to the silver, floating green cymbidium orchids and candles in shallow bowls of water. The four-tier wedding cake sat chilling in a walk-in fridge, like a spoiled headliner in his dressing room.
 And when the music started, it's a fair bet you would have recognized the cast of characters: The roving female vigilantes, beckoning nondancers with their demanding, accusing fingers; the normally buttoned-down guys whose wild moves were perhaps not as surprising as at the last wedding; the middle-age couples who've somehow lost the connection between their upper and lower bodies and can only dance with one or the other at a time. 
 And then, of course, there was the wedding band with their ... hold on. Something wasn't quite right on the stage set up under pink marble columns in the Madison Room. First of all, there wasn't a tuxedo in sight, just dark suits and skinny ties. Nobody was doing any cheesy patter. There was no horn section, no back-up singers, no creepy vocalist singing ''Wonderful World.'' Instead, there was a floppy-haired lead singer working his way through Rolling Stones tunes; another singer, big and bearded, belting out 80s hits; and a killer rhythm section. 
 This wasn't some band doing sterile imitations; this was a rock band. The kind that made you think, 'Man, I'd forgotten what a great song 'American Girl was.' Or, better yet, 'Man, I never knew what a great song ''Take on Me'' was, but I do now.' 
 Weddings, of course, have been the secret sustainer of the music world since time immemorial. But for just as long, wedding bands have been a source of embarrassment for those forced to play in them. The Dexter Lake Club Band has neatly subverted this construction by the simple expediency of creating a band that actually rocks. In the process, they've become one of New York's premier wedding bands for people who would never dream of hiring a wedding band. New York magazine called the band one of the ''top 10 reasons to get married in New York,'' and it has played for high-profile brides like the actresses Olivia Wilde and Amanda Peet. (''I am an old lady and I was pregnant, and I still danced up a storm,'' Ms. Peet says by e-mail message.) 
 If you are an American male, there is coded somewhere in your DNA the desire to be young and onstage with a guitar; to count in the song by clacking the drumsticks; to sullenly pump out the bass line; to hold the mike out to the crowd and hear them roar. The Dexter Lake Club Band does this every weekend. For money. In front of girls going crazy. That they happen to do it at weddings is purely incidental. 
 Like all great rock 'n' roll bands, the Dexter Lake Club Band exhibits a classic tension between commercialism and rebellion, virtuosity and feeling, head and heart. Think Lennon vs. McCartney, Richards vs. Jagger, Chuck D vs. Flavor Flav. 
 Matthew Stinchcomb, in this cosmology, is the hipper, looser side of the band. Meticulously rumpled, compulsively flirtatious with man, woman and beast alike, he sings lead on the classic rock and soul numbers and plays rhythm guitar with sloppy panache. He toured for many years with indy rock's French Kicks, though he has since left the road to become vice president of Etsy.com. Now married, Mr. Stinchcomb was once notorious for enjoying the benefits of being a handsome, single man with a guitar, surrounded by bridesmaids. Once, after a wedding, he woke up in a closet, wearing only leather pants, his guitar abandoned outside on the gravel driveway. 
 If Mr. Stinchcomb looks like he has spent hours cultivating the appearance of having just rolled out of bed, the band's second lead singer, Tim Ruedeman, looks as if he is still asleep in one. A native of Babylon, N.Y., Mr. Ruedeman is a devotee of '80s pop and soft rock, a classical saxophonist and a most improbable vessel for a voice that can perfectly channel everybody from Steve Perry to Axl Rose. If you've ever doubted that, say, ''My Sharona,'' is part of the Great American Songbook, he may change your mind.
 As the bassist Jamie Krents puts it, ''He sings 'Don't Stop Believin' '' as though he wrote 'Don't Stop Believin'.' '' 
 Put it this way: If the Dexter Lake Club Band were to put out a self-titled album, Mr. Stinchcomb's cover design would be the band's name scrawled on a brick wall. Mr. Ruedeman's would have the initials DLCB floating three-dimensionally above a windswept moonscape. 
 Mr. Krents, meanwhile, is the all important third part of the band: a great bassist, but also the designated dealmaker, disciplinarian, driver and worrier. The others call him ''the general.'' 
 Around this core are assembled the rest of the band: On lead guitar, there is Oscar Albis Rodriguez, the shreddingist vegan you're ever likely to meet. On drums, tall, lank-haired Gunnar Olsen, who could be clutching a marriage license in one hand and a bride in the other and would still clearly be with the band. And behind the keyboards, silent, enigmatic Christian Oates, who rides in the van wearing a pink Billy Idol bandana and reading back issues of The Economist. For his first gig with DLCB, he took his own smoke machine. 
 The three principle members of DLCB met in 1995 at Oberlin College. There, Mr. Ruedeman recruited Mr. Stinchcomb and Mr. Krents to play in an 80's cover band called T-Money and the Change. (The '80s were at this point only a few years gone, making a cover band the equivalent of Sha-Na-Na's appearance at Woodstock.) Within a few performances, T-Money and the Change had broken Oberlin's concert attendance record, previously held by a noncover band called the Pixies.
 After college, Mr. Krents and Mr. Stinchcomb moved to New York and joined the French Kicks. Then, in 1997, they were asked to play at a friend's wedding in Virginia. ''They offered us something like $300 per person to get drunk, play Rolling Stones covers and fool around with girls,'' says Mr. Stinchcomb, summarizing the eternal rock credo.
 Wedding led to wedding until, entirely by word of mouth, they found themselves making a living as New York's antiwedding band wedding band. ''At the beginning, we were like the A-Team: You had to be able to find us to employ us,'' Mr. Ruedeman says. ''It was like going to the bar with no sign outside. People felt cool and we felt cool and it was cool.'' 
 The band members are aware of the stigma that goes along with playing weddings. 
 But they also know the indignities of playing in ''real'' bands: cramped vans, empty crowds, scant compensation. (At $8,000 and up a gig, plus travel and expenses, weddings pay better than almost any other gig.)
 Mr. Krents points out that, as nonsongwriting members of the French Kicks, he and Mr. Stinchcomb were still playing someone else's songs. ''At least now we're playing some of the best songs ever written,'' he says.
 AND, Mr. Olsen says, playing with DLCB feels the way playing with a band should feel.
 ''I feel like I can glance at these guys and know what they're going to do,'' he says. ''I used to cringe at the idea of playing in a wedding band. But if I was going to start a rock band, these are they guys I'd choose.''By now, the band has seen pretty much every flavor of nuptials. It has played horas, polkas and Irish jigs. At a Chinese ceremony in Flushing, Queens, the band made the mistake of agreeing to play the vamp to ''Eye of the Tiger'' through the introduction of the happy couple's family, not realizing it would take 45 minutes. ''I think I got carpal tunnel syndrome,'' Mr. Krents says. 
 Mr. Kents has grown adept at respectfully declining to add such songs as ''Celebration'' or ''Y.M.C.A.'' to the playlist. At the same time, no commercial art is without its compromises.
 Recently a special request for a song by the MTV darlings Snow Patrol inspired near mutiny. ''I told them, 'Guys, the money's green,' '' Mr. Ruedeman says. ''Ultimately, I'd rather play Snow Patrol than go into an office every day. If you're not comfortable with that, you don't play in a wedding band.''
 Special requests are only one element that goes into the Level of Brutality, or L.O.B., a highly sensitive index the band developed to assess each wedding. ''An L.O.B. of eight is pretty brutal,'' Mr. Stinchcomb says. ''An L.O.B. of 10 is, like, somebody dies.''
 Many factors can swing the L.O.B. Food is high on the list. Ideally, the band eats what the guests eat. In high-L.O.B. situations, they get somewhat less. ''Wraps are a brutal food,'' Mr. Stinchcomb says. 
 The band learned early on to include a clause in its contract ensuring access to the bar. Mr. Ruedeman has occasionally been compelled to enforce that provision with overzealous wedding planners -- who are often single-handedly responsible for vertiginous L.O.B. elevation. 
 Another rule of the L.O.B. is that it tends to fall in inverse proportion to the amount of alcohol being consumed by the guests and to rise along with the involvement of the M.O.B.: Mother of the Bride.
 The crowd at a high-L.O.B. wedding may find themselves hearing songs from the DLCB's alter ego -- a band they call Selfish. Unlike DLCB, Selfish doesn't care about wedding guests having a good time. Van Halen's ''Panama'' is on the Selfish playlist, as is anything by Led Zeppelin. 
 It is last October and Emma Creighton and Ben Hopson are celebrating their own (low-L.O.B.) wedding at the Mandarin Oriental, Grand Ballroom A, in Washington. The cake is double-chocolate with Bavarian cream; the flowers, calla lilies and orchids. And, the reception has followed a certain predictable arc. There has already been the first wave of dancing: the old folks, the more impatient girls, the children.
 As usual, the Dexter Lake Club Band starts with some easier numbers, the kind everyone likes: ''Beast of Burden,'' ''I Saw You Standing There,'' ''American Girl.''
 On a break, the band relaxes in a green room, snacking from steam trays of pasta and salmon. They agree that, from a musical standpoint, something is a bit awry with the pacing of the evening. Every time they work up a good head of steam, the party breaks for one reason or another: toasts, speeches, dinner. The affair is suffering from danceus interruptus. And the bride's stepmother, attending to the acoustic requirements of some of the older guests, has passed the band a note: Too Loud. 
 ''What if we start with 'Living on a Prayer,' '' says Mr. Krents, trying to map out a strategy for the next set. 
 Mr. Ruedeman puts down his plate of stuffed shells. 
 ''Jamie, Jamie,'' he says, shaking his head sadly. ''That's like saying to a girl, 'Why don't we have sex and then maybe we can kiss later.' ''
 ''I hadn't thought of it quite like that before,'' Mr. Krents says. '' 'Hot Blooded'?''
 ''There you go! Now you're making love.''
 Back in the ballroom, the partygoers are lolling in a double-chocolate Bavarian-cream stupor. After a few numbers, Mr. Krents and Mr. Ruedeman exchange glances and make a decision. Out comes the big gun, the one song that never fails to electrify whatever gig DLCB plays. 
 Mr. Oates plays the intro on the keyboard, a lilting Irish fiddle tune. Then Mr. Krents and Mr. Olsen begin pumping the vamp. 
 ''Poor old Johnny Ray,'' Mr. Ruedeman belts. ''Sounded sad upon the radio/ He moved a million hearts in mono.'' 
 There's some stirring in the back of the room but not enough. It seems as if the band has fired the bullet too soon. Then comes the bridge:
 ''Come on, Eileen taloo-rye-aye. 
 All of a sudden there are people streaming down the aisles, pushing tables aside, running for the dance floor. The entire crowd is pogo-sticking up and down as the beat builds toward the chorus. 
 ''I said too-ra-loo-ra-too-ra-loo-rye-AYE'' 
 THE place explodes. And from here, it's a cakewalk: ''I Want You to Want Me,'' ''Living on a Prayer,'' a mini Journey medley in which ''Don't Stop Believin' '' goes straight into ''Anyway You Want It.'' 
 Mr. Rodriguez is effortlessly wailing away on lead. Mr. Olsen is in full, eyes-rolling-back drummer-ecstasy mode while the women kick their shoes into a pile, stamp their feet and clutch each other like little girls reunited at summer camp.
 This is it: the great, dreamed-of rock 'n' roll communion -- between band member and band member, and band and audience. Say what you will about art versus commerce, integrity versus selling out -- there are far more ignoble compromises than making this many people this happy, ever. 
 Orchids are arcing through the air, peppering the stage. The band kicks into ''Welcome to the Jungle'' and Mr. Ruedeman, red-faced and in full-throat leans into the crowd, cradling the mike-stand, howling:
 ''Do you know where you are? You're in the Mandarin Oriental, baby. You're gonna diiiiiiiiiie!!!''
 And then, with a groan from the crowd and a whoosh of spent energy, the lights come up and the party's over. As people file out, the bride's father and stepmother walk up to the stage. 
 ''I've got to say,'' he begins.
 ''That was ...'' she stammers.
 ''This is the first wedding we've ever paid for.''
 ''That was ...''
 ''And the best wedding we've ever been to.''
 ''That was -- amazing!''
 Next to the stage, by his keyboards, Mr. Oates finally speaks.
 ''When I was playing in real bands, I hated it,'' he says. ''I didn't even know why I was playing music any more. This band makes me remember. The funny thing is, when I go home at night and put on music, I listen to us.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: OH 'MY SHARONA': The Dexter Lake Club Band exude a cool respectability on the wedding scene (that's right!), whipping receptions into a rock 'n' roll frenzy around New York.(ST1)
UPBEAT: Wedding bands used to make Gunnar Olsen cringe.(ST10)
 RECEPTION LINE: From left: Christian Oates, Matt Stinchcomb, Gunnar Olsen, Jamie Krents, Tim Ruedeman and Oscar Albis Rodriguez of the Dexter Lake Club Band.(ST11)(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW HETHERINGTON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC (88%); MARRIAGE (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (74%); POP & ROCK (74%); RESTAURANTS (72%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (69%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



29 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; CRIME; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: Death Unleashed

BYLINE: By MARILYN STASIO

 BODY:
Subversive writer that she is, Ruth Rendell slyly sends up two iconic figures of English society -- the animal lover and the guardian of political correctness -- in her new Inspector Wexford mystery, THE MONSTER IN THE BOX (Scribner, $26). Far from getting a free pass because he loves dogs (and snakes and lions), Eric Targo is presented as an archvillain. Back when Wexford was just a green recruit on the Kingsmarkham police force, he became convinced that this mild-mannered chap who went everywhere with a beloved dog was a ''hobby'' killer. But with little to show for his suspicion beyond visceral repulsion, Wexford had to let it go. Now Targo has resurfaced, another dog at his side, and Wexford is reminded of the first Mrs. Targo's appraisal of her ex-husband: ''He likes animals better than people. Well, he doesn't like people at all.'' 
 While Wexford is considering whether his own gardener might have become Targo's latest victim, one of Wexford's colleagues, Hannah Goldsmith, is sure that a Muslim family have compelled their 16-year-old daughter to leave school and are forcing her into an arranged marriage. But the young officer's patronizing attitude toward immigrants is so transparent to the family she insults by being ''excessively polite, flattering and considerate'' that her investigation goes nowhere. 
 Although the plot mechanics linking these two story lines are a bit creaky, it's a pleasure to have flashbacks to a boyish Wexford in hot pursuit of girls of a certain alluring type. It's also a revelation to see how meticulously Rendell reconstructs that long-ago period and place from mere glimpses of a street without cars or an open field where a boy could see the stars. Charm aside, this nostalgia trip shows us how Wexford's character was shaped by his experiences as a sensitive, bookish youth. Even in those days, ''he wanted justice to be done,'' Rendell tells us. ''The wicked must not be allowed to flourish like the green bay tree.''
 Whenever authors interrupt a conventional plot to send their series sleuth to some exotic clime, you tend to suspect them of writing off a vacation as a research trip. Michael Connelly doesn't quite put that suspicion to rest with NINE DRAGONS (Little, Brown, $27.99), in which he takes a long pause from an investigation into the murder of an old Chinese shopkeeper in Los Angeles and dispatches his detective, Harry Bosch, on a daredevil mission to Hong Kong. But Connelly goes on to resolve both Harry's home-turf case and that nasty business in Hong Kong in his customary double-barreled style of action and intelligence. So let's just say that a good writer can get away with just about anything he wants to.
 The trip to Hong Kong is pure thriller material, giving Harry only one ''39-hour day'' to find his 13-year-old daughter, presumably kidnapped by gangsters to make Harry drop an investigation into their stateside activities. And while the Los Angeles case isn't half as exciting, it puts a human face on the way criminal triads function in immigrant communities. There's also something quietly gripping about a case that makes us consider the hard lives of people trying to make an honest living in a tough neighborhood.
 Books are books -- except when they're movies trapped between the covers of a book. BOX 21 (Sarah Crichton/Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $26) has something of that trapped quality. Scene by violent scene, this thriller by Anders Roslund and Borge Hellstrom (in a blunt, uncredited translation from the Swedish) never loses sight of Lydia Grajauskas, who was exposed to violence as a child in Lithuania before being duped into prostitution and ferried over to Sweden to cater to the tastes of rough men with disgusting sexual habits. After landing in the hospital when the Lithuanian diplomat who moonlights as her pimp flays the skin off her back with a bullwhip, Lydia embarks on a daring plan to take vengeance -- a plan that involves holding hostages in the hospital morgue and occasionally blowing one up with Semtex. For all their cinematic hyperbole, the authors don't contribute to any further degradation of Lydia, who makes a believably tragic model for all the real women exploited by human traffickers.
 Archer Mayor's Vermont police procedurals are the best thing going in regional crime writing because every one of his stories emerges from social and economic conditions that determine the criminal activities specific to the area. Mayor has a couple of things on his mind in the series's latest entry, THE PRICE OF MALICE (Minotaur, $24.99). As robustly written as all his novels, this one opens with the mutilation murder of a suspected pedophile in a rundown neighborhood near downtown Brattleboro and uses the crime to show what happens when a famously tolerant region suffers an economic downturn, becoming overwhelmed by the poor and the needy -- and the people who prey on them. 
 Joe Gunther, a senior lawman with the Vermont Bureau of Investigation and the epitome of the kind of ''hardy, inventive, independent'' New Englander you meet in Mayor's books, also gets caught up in illegal activities down in Gloucester, Mass., where his girlfriend's family comes from. Mayor writes with feeling of this historic fishing village, with its narrow lanes ''riding a hilly terrain like boats on a rolling sea,'' and he's sensitive to the financial pressures that can turn law-abiding fishermen into smugglers. That's what you want from a regional mystery: the sense that someone really cares about this sorry old place. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPH NIEMANN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); DOGS (90%); WRITERS (89%); MAMMALS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); POLICE FORCES (76%); MURDER (75%); MARRIAGE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) HONG KONG (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Monster in the Box, The (Book); Nine Dragons (Book); Box 21 (Book); Price of Malice, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



30 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: San Antonio Built Community Coalition to Land Cyberwarfare Headquarters

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: SAN ANTONIO 

 BODY:
When Kelly Air Force Base was ordered shut down in 1995, more than 17,000 jobs left town. Now the military presence is growing again. This time, though, the new force will not comprise fighters, bombers or boots on the ground. Instead, the city is hosting the fastest-growing domain of government and military spending: cyberwarfare. 
 The Air Force's new military command for computer-network offense and defense, activated in late summer, is expected to require 5,500 to 7,000 jobs, including Air Force personnel, Defense Department civilians and private-sector contractors. 
 Lackland Air Force Base here was named home for the new Air Force cyberwarfare operation after a competition that pitted San Antonio against communities with better-known bases in Colorado, Illinois, Louisiana, Nebraska and Virginia. 
 In fact, when the Air Force began looking for a place to base its new headquarters for computer-network warfare, officially called the 24th Air Force, San Antonio was not even on the list.
 ''But we had a secret weapon -- a lot of retired colonels, lieutenant colonels and majors who had shed their uniforms and now are in key positions at the Chamber of Commerce and all across the business community,'' said John B. Dickson of Denim Group, a computer software and network security firm here. ''They were able to make the business case very strongly in San Antonio's favor.'' 
 The Obama administration this year elevated computer-network warfare to be its high frontier of national security priorities, with far-reaching effects on military operations -- and how the Pentagon does business.
 San Antonio's experience in lobbying for the new headquarters proved how the traditional ''Iron Triangle'' of military contracting -- the Pentagon, Congress and the military industry -- is being replaced by a new silicon circle that requires harnessing the efforts of municipal governments, business leaders and universities to ride the next wave of large military contracts.
 ''You have to pull together all the disparate interests in your community -- academic interests, public-sector utilities, the military, other federal agencies already operating in town and the business community,'' said Matt Pirko of ManTech Security and Mission Assurance, another local computer-network firm. 
 Julian Castro, the mayor of San Antonio, said community leaders found it easy to sell the lobbying effort, not just in Washington but to their own citizens. San Antonio has a history of energetically supporting its military bases, he said. But even more, cyberoperations are viewed as a more intellectual and clean, even ''green,'' sector of the American military than traditional combat.
 Mr. Castro said the effort to sway decision makers was built on arguments that San Antonio not only offered excellent computer security expertise and the municipal infrastructure to support it, but was producing network warriors for the future through new programs at its high schools and local colleges.
 Ravi Sandhu, executive director of the Institute for Cyber Security, at the University of Texas at San Antonio, said the recession had forced the state to cut back money for a number of academic programs, but not in computer security, and not here.
 One draw for the Air Force was the institute's Center for Infrastructure Assurance and Security, which developed the ''Dark Screen'' exercise adopted by municipalities in 11 states to learn how to protect critical city infrastructure from computer-network attacks.
 The center's assistant director, Dwayne Williams, said his program was being used in so many cities, including several that competed for the new Air Force command, that his organization was prohibited from assisting hometown officials in making the pitch to the Air Force because of insider knowledge on weaknesses in computer security systems of those other cities.
 At Lackland Air Force Base, signs have been going up, identifying the new 24th Air Force headquarters and its subordinate units, the 688th Information Operations Wing and the 67th Network Warfare Wing. The new headquarters will command two other communications groups, based in Galveston, Tex., and Oklahoma City.
 Maj. Gen. Richard E. Webber, commander of the 24th Air Force, said the choice of San Antonio was based on ''proximity to other cyberoperational missions, as well as access to communications and bandwidth capabilities, infrastructure and the local scientific and technical base.'' 
 It did not hurt that the National Security Agency already has significant operations in San Antonio, including a unit of its Central Security Service, whose missions include protecting government computer systems and producing foreign signals intelligence.
 Within the alphabet soup of American spy agencies, the N.S.A. takes the lead in electronic intelligence and computer-network warfare. Its director is expected to be assigned the second task of being in charge of the Pentagon's new United States Cybercommand, overseeing militarywide computer-network operations. The 24th Air Force will be the service's operation in support of that command's mission.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Julian Castro, left, of San Antonio said his city offered military decision makers excellent computer security expertise.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ERICH SCHLEGEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (95%); AIR FORCES (92%); MILITARY BASES (90%); INFORMATION WARFARE (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (89%); LOBBYING (89%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%)

COMPANY: MANTECH INTERNATIONAL CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (83%)

TICKER: MANT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



31 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 269 words

HEADLINE: THE WEEK AHEAD NOV. 1 - NOV. 7

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

 BODY:
Art
 Nicolai Ouroussoff
 ''BAUHAUS 1919-1933: WORKSHOPS FOR MODERNITY,'' at the MUSEUM OF MODERN ART, is tinged with a hint of melancholy. One of the most ambitious cultural undertakings of the 20th century, Bauhaus, which sought to invent a new aesthetic language for a modern world, had to contend not only with the distrust of a conservative public but also with the darkening cloud of Nazism. Still, the MoMA show should offer plenty of reasons to cheer. With over 400 artworks, drawings, models, textiles and ceramics by creative talents like Mies van der Rohe, Lilly Reich, Hannes Meyer, Vasily Kandinsky, Paul Klee and Anni and Josef Albers, the show is a tribute to the collaborative spirit. They didn't always get along, but their sweeping aesthetic vision, which reached from the design of an ink pot to ambitious building projects, still resonates today. Nov. 8 through Jan. 25, moma.org. 
 ''INTERSECTIONS: THE GRAND CONCOURSE BEYOND 100,'' at the BRONX MUSEUM OF THE ARTS, is perfectly timed. The Obama administration's recent stimulus package has raised hopes among some in the architectural community that the government may finally begin to seriously address the country's crumbling -- and outdated -- infrastructure. The Grand Concourse, conceived as a magnificent response to America's emerging car culture, is now an emblem of the Bronx's decay. The show includes seven proposals for restoring its lost glory; they range from transforming it into an urban farm to making it a centerpiece for a new ''green'' economy. Through Jan. 3, 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, Morrisania, bronxmuseum.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''A 18'' (1927), by Laszlo Moholy-Nagy, on exhibit at MoMA.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ARTISTS RIGHTS SOCIETY (ARS), NEW YORK/VG BILD-KUNST, BONN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



32 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1975 words

HEADLINE: Flipping a Coin, Dividing an Empire

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
HENRY ELGHANAYAN marched into a conference room high above Third Avenue in Midtown Manhattan on March 4. After nearly four decades as partners, he and two of his brothers were dividing up their $3 billion real estate empire. 
 As if it were some neighborhood bet, the flip of a coin would determine how to split their 8,000 apartments and nine development sites in New York and nine office buildings in New York and Washington.
 Henry's brothers K. Thomas and Frederick Elghanayan, who remain partners, sent lawyers to represent them. They were still grieving over the death of their mother, Victoria, the day before. 
 On a table in the conference room, Michael P. Korotkin, the three brothers' longtime real estate lawyer, placed two opaque envelopes. Whoever picked the envelope containing a plastic coffee stirrer would be the one to call heads or tails. If he called the toss correctly, he would get first pick of three groups of assets. 
 Henry chose the envelope with the coffee stirrer. As Mr. Korotkin flipped a quarter into the air, Henry paused, and at the last moment called tails. Tails it was.
 ''It was exciting,'' said Henry, 69. ''It made a big difference whether you picked first or second.'' 
 Compared with property breakups of some other New York real estate families -- often long, messy affairs replete with blood feuds, lawsuits and ugly recriminations -- the Elghanayan brothers' split has been relatively swift, smooth and secretive. The Milstein family fought for a decade over control of a $5 billion fortune that included hotels, apartment buildings and a bank. The wrestling match over the billion-dollar estate of the land speculator Sol Goldman lasted seven years. And who can forget the squabbling over Harry B. Helmsley's $8 billion empire, part of which eventually went to his wife's poodle?
 The Elghanayan brothers didn't slap one another with lawsuits. And there were no vicious industry rumors, or anonymous mudslinging in the gossip columns, about the fate of this very private family that ran the Rockrose Development Corporation, one of the city's largest developers of residential buildings.
 ''A lot of the families have had very unpleasant break-ups,'' said Daniel Brodsky, a developer and a close friend of Tom Elghanayan. ''They managed to do it in a very civilized way.''
 Civilized, yes. But that doesn't mean it's been free of tension. For one thing, Henry's decision to initiate it, as well as the assets he selected, surprised his brothers. There would be much horse trading before the breakup was legally completed on Sept. 29, and the brothers acknowledge some bumps along the way.
 In an interview, both Fred and Tom expressed resignation and a little bewilderment. They now operate in the family's longtime offices on Park Avenue South as TF Cornerstone, while Henry runs a separate business under the Rockrose name.
 ''We're still scratching our heads about why it all happened,'' said Tom, 64.
 The tensions were evident last week as the three gathered for a photograph for this article. When Henry, as the eldest brother, insisted on his traditional spot in the middle, Fred and Tom simultaneously responded, ''No way.''
 THE Elghanayans' father, Nourallah, was a prominent manufacturer in Iran under the shah. He moved his family to Queens in the 1950s, when Houchang, who is known as Henry, and Tom were children. Their father and mother continued to shuttle between Iran and Queens, where the family settled on Rockrose Place, a two-block-long street in Forest Hills. 
 Their father dabbled in real estate, but Tom suggested that their formative moments came during ''vicious, daylong Monopoly'' games. ''Monopoly teaches you many long-term lessons: to buy property and build quickly,'' he said. ''You can get wiped out by the randomness of the dice, or the vagaries of the market.''
 The brothers very nearly crashed and burned with their first project in 1970, when they began renovating small buildings in and around Greenwich Village. Their father had given Henry and Tom $100,000 to start the business. They put everything they had into renovating a walkup at 31 West 16th Street. 
 Just as they finished, the real estate market crashed. They were able to sell only one of the six apartments. Henry and Tom, as well as Fred, who would join them in the business, each moved into a unit, while the ground-floor apartment became an office. ''We were very lucky to sell that one unit,'' Henry said. ''We needed the money.''
 As the market came back, they refinanced and began buying other buildings, on the Upper West Side and in Brooklyn Heights. Each deal brought a larger renovation project, and then construction of new buildings. In 1977, they converted an industrial building on East 46th Street into Turtle Bay Towers, with 337 rental apartments. A decade later, they turned a landmark warehouse into the Archive, with 479 rental apartments at 666 Greenwich Street.
 The Elghanayans extended their reputation for doing projects in what real estate brokers call ''emerging neighborhoods'' when, in the 1990s, they started converting office buildings into rental apartments in the financial district. They were also pioneers on the Queens waterfront in Long Island City. 
 Now they are also building on the Far West Side in Manhattan, a once-industrial area that was rezoned for high-rise construction in 2005. After the attack on the World Trade Center, the Elghanayans also sought to diversify, buying a half-dozen office buildings in Washington.
 The Elghanayans, like many of New York's old real estate families, took a conservative approach to financing. They often bought land for cash and kept leverage low. ''We never had mezzanine loans,'' Tom said. ''We financed 75 percent of value, not 95 percent.''
 Over time, the brothers developed a clear division of labor: Fred, an engineer, handled construction. Tom, a graduate of Yale and Harvard Business School, did development and acquisitions. Henry, a lawyer, handled financing and, later, commercial buildings. Their youngest brother, Jeffrey, who left the partnership in 1989, is an architect. Every Wednesday, they met over lunch.
 The differing responsibilities were matched by different personalities. Tom, the most outgoing, is a sports fan who plays tennis and golf. (His former wife, Sharon, is now dating Gov. Jon S. Corzine of New Jersey.) Fred, the quietest, is an art collector, specializing in German Expressionism and Egyptian antiquities. Henry, whose neatly clipped white beard gives him a professorial air, also collects art.
 ''That's part of the secret of our success,'' Henry said. ''We didn't step on each other's toes.''
 THE split came, as splits often do, over the issue of succession. Henry wanted a clear path for his son, Justin, 31, the only offspring of the three brothers who is active in the family business. 
 ''I was more interested in the question of succession because my son was in the business,'' Henry said. ''At some point, I thought it was better for the whole family that we divide.''
 Henry also wanted to be a developer in his own right. Buying existing office buildings does not get the same attention in New York as building towers, suggested one longtime executive at Rockrose. Henry also wanted to take on partners by creating an investment fund, something his brothers opposed.
 ''I think it's a question of who wanted to be a big developer versus who wanted to be an operator,'' said Steven Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board of New York. 
 After months of discussion about revising the partnership, Henry sent his brothers a legal notice in August 2008 that he was seeking to dissolve it. The notice was required under a detailed partnership agreement they drew up in 1989 after Jeffrey left the business for California. Back then, they had had to resort to binding arbitration, with their father as an arbiter. Afterward, all three brothers decided they needed a more formal procedure. 
 In addition to the coin toss, the document provided for a ''pile maker'' to carve the assets into three groups, and a reverse auction where the lowest bidder would win the right to decides which properties go into each pile. ''This procedure was cooked up by all three of us,'' Tom said. ''It was not a lawyer's construct. In many ways it was like a chess game.''
 The Elghanayans recently discovered that their method shares traits with game theory, a once-obscure academic area that has been adopted by corporate titans and Pentagon generals in seeking mathematical solutions to real-life issues.
 In 2006, Henry heard Ingrid C. Daubechies, a mathematician at Princeton, give a presentation about a game-theory challenge. In the challenge, players had to divide property fairly in a situation where they value assets differently -- one may have a stronger sentimental attachment to a family's vacation cabin than the other siblings, for example, while another covets the yacht. After the presentation, Henry asked Ms. Daubechies about his own family's solution. 
 She said the Elghanayans appeared to have come up with what game theorists call an ''envy free'' solution. ''Paradoxically,'' she said, ''because players have different preferences, a mathematical argument makes it possible to arrive at a situation where every player feels they receive a share larger than what any of the others gets.''
 In the Elghanayans' plan, the auction was the next step after Henry sent the notice. In January, they met at Mr. Korotkin's office in Midtown, where they drew straws to see who would bid first. 
 Within a half-hour, it was clear that Fred was the low bidder, and winner of the auction. He had an incentive to be fair; he would get the remaining pile, after his brothers made their choices.
 ''I made three piles in 60 days,'' Fred, who is 61, said. ''We had appraisals done internally.'' 
 That led to the coin flip in March to see who would pick first. The next day, their father, Nourallah, died, two days after their mother passed away.
 Henry picked pile No. 3, which contained the ''Rockrose'' name and most of the family's development sites, as well as eight residential buildings with 2,634 apartments.
 Tom and Fred were dumbstruck. ''Fred and I were really the development company,'' Tom said. They got the rest: 13 apartment buildings with more than 5,000 apartments, the office buildings and properties in Long Island City.
 ''I always wanted to be a developer,'' Henry explained. ''That's what did it for me.''
 BUT there was a twist yet to come.
 The breakup was supposed to be completed in June. It was delayed time and again as lawyers for both sides pored over documents and financials on each property. There was also a bit of horse trading going on. 
 Several executives who have worked with Rockrose suggested that most of the employees in the development division went with Fred and Tom, hobbling Henry's ability to jump quickly into development work. 
 Before the deal closed in September, Henry traded back many of the development sites to his brothers, including two large buildings under way on the Far West Side and four sites at Queens West. In exchange, Henry got parcels at Court Square in Long Island City, which unlike Queens West are not on a development timetable.
 Henry said that although he was both ''sad and nostalgic'' on the day he officially left, he looked forward to ''starting a new enterprise with different people.''
 It may not be the best time to be heavily invested in real estate, but both sides say they can weather the economic storm, much as they have in the past, because they are not burdened by heavy debts. All three brothers say there is a great opportunity to buy distressed assets from other developers and their lenders ''at below replacement cost.'' 
 ''We're doing business the old-fashioned way,'' Tom says. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: For Henry (left), Tom and Fred Elghanayan, a property breakup was smooth, relatively speaking.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Splitting Family Riches: The division of city properties among the Elghanayan brothers.(pg. BU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); FAMILY (89%); LAWYERS (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); LITIGATION (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); INTERVIEWS (60%)

COMPANY: ROCKROSE DEVELOPMENT CORP (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (63%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



33 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; THE NEW PUBLIC DOMAIN; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 2679 words

HEADLINE: Less for More

BYLINE: By PAUL FAIN. 
Paul Fain is a senior reporter for The Chronicle of Higher Education.

 BODY:
SUSAN LI'S senior year at the University of California, Los Angeles, was fast approaching, and she was running out of time. She needed at least three classes to qualify for financial aid. But a week before classes began, she had registered for only one course.
 ''They're not offering the classes I need,'' said Ms. Li, a history major. ''I don't know what I'm going to do.'' 
 In her first two attempts to register, she hadn't been able to get her outstanding general-ed requirements or any advanced classes in her major. Classes were full, or not being offered this term. If she can't complete what she needs to graduate, Ms. Li doubts she can afford a fifth year. She has taken out $8,000 in loans each year. 
 ''Hopefully something will open up,'' she said, and after scanning the registration Web site each day something did: two Asian-American studies electives, neither of which would move her closer to completing her major. 
 The university is facing a $131 million budget shortfall this year, and Ms. Li is among the many students who are feeling the pinch. U.C.L.A. has eliminated 165 courses, a full 10 percent reduction. Even in recent years, Ms. Li says, she has had to sit on the steps in crowded lecture halls. She was one of several hundred students who gathered at Bruin Plaza as the school year began to protest cutbacks and a tuition and fee increase of $1,170, with a planned $1,344 bump next year. 
 While U.C.L.A.'s money woes are extreme, they are familiar to many flagship universities. The University of Arizona, the University of Wisconsin and the University of Florida are among many that are scrambling because states are kicking in shrinking portions of their budgets. 
 In this particularly hard year, in which university endowments have been hammered along with state coffers, federal stimulus money has helped most avoid worst-case scenarios. The 10-campus University of California system, for example, has received $716 million in stimulus funds to offset its $1 billion gap. But that money is a temporary fix. A quip circulating among college presidents: The stimulus isn't a bridge; it's a short pier. 
 This fall, flagships still had to cut costs and raise tuition, most by 6.5 percent or more. And virtually all of the nation's top public universities are likely to push through large increases in coming years.
 ''The students are at a point of rebellion, because they're paying more and getting less,'' says Jane V. Wellman, executive director of the Delta Project on Postsecondary Education Costs, Productivity and Accountability. 
 Universities have reached deep in their pockets to protect vulnerable students from tuition increases. Mark G. Yudof, president of the University of California, defends his university's record in preserving financial aid, noting that families with incomes under $60,000 pay not one penny of their fees. ''The real crunch,'' he says, is helping families that make roughly $100,000. ''The most at risk at this time really are going to be the middle class.'' 
 Public universities have historically been underpriced: average in-state tuition is $7,020 this year. A re-evaluation had to happen, says David E. Shulenburger, vice president for academic affairs at the Association of Public and Land-Grant Universities, because the benefit has been to higher income families. ''You can't justify that subsidy for wealthier students,'' he says. The trend, accelerated by the economic shakeup, is from cheap to what he calls ''moderate'' tuition rates, at least by private-school standards. 
 Mr. Shulenburger sees the tuition increases as part of a larger movement toward privatization of the most desirable flagships. With state contributions largely flat or down over the last 15 years, and enrollments and costs up, many top flagships are turning to nonpublic sources for money and, in some cases, accepting larger numbers of out-of-state students, who often pay twice the tuition of residents. 
 At the same time, applications are pouring in from students shut out by the stratospheric cost of private colleges. That's generally a good thing. Flagships are attracting more wealthy and better-prepared students. Yet as the counterargument goes, a flagship's traditional mission is to educate its own, especially a state's low- and middle-income students. The evolution under way is putting some flagships out of reach for the students who were typically enrolled even a decade ago. Each year, the quality of students as well as the budget model skews closer to that of elite private universities. 
 Mr. Yudof calls the state an ''unreliable partner.'' It accounts for half as much financing per student as 20 years ago. Yet in a recent commentary for The Chronicle of Higher Education, he drew the line: ''We will not privatize the university. We will continue to enroll students from all economic strata. We will not go the way of other states and rely on a vast expansion of nonresident enrollment.'' Still, the university is expected to admit more out-of-state students next fall. 
 Faculty layoffs and hiring freezes notwithstanding, Mr. Yudof believes that the university, long regarded as one of the country's leading publics, still offers a top-notch education. ''We have a lot of room to descend,'' he says. But he is well aware that the university faces a potential slide into mediocrity. At U.C.L.A., class size has increased by 20 percent over three years. He says it cannot sustain more years of forced downsizing.''We're not over the edge, but we're at the edge,'' he says. ''Something has to change.''
 THE PRIVATE PUBLIC 
 The University of Michigan belongs to an enviable class of nationally prestigious public universities; many of its undergraduates picked it over the Ivy League. 
 Thirty years ago, the university began going through the convulsions other public universities are now experiencing. Today, it is largely protected from Michigan's plummeting economy. Only 7 percent of its budget is provided by the state. 
 The transformation of the University of Michigan's finances began with Harold T. Shapiro. In the mid-1970s, Mr. Shapiro, then a professor of economics and public policy at the university, studied Michigan's economy and predicted that the state would lose tax income compared with the rest of the country in coming decades. He was right. 
 While the state trimmed a third of its support for the university in the 1980s, Mr. Shapiro, as the university's president, worked to build a more secure budget base. Michigan increased private fund-raising and developed a tuition structure that took advantage of a growing number of out-of-state students, who now pay $36,163 a year in tuition and fees -- about the same as Princeton. 
 James J. Duderstadt was Michigan's provost during its transformation, and later served as its president. With an out-of-state mix of 35 percent, he acknowledges that Michigan looks less like a state university. ''Folks from out of state are attending a private institution,'' he says. 
 It's likely, actually, that most Princetonians pay less than an out-of-state Michigan student. While Michigan's aid packages are generous, no public can match the deep coffers of an Ivy League university. Forty-five percent of out-of-state undergraduates at Michigan are affluent enough not to qualify for financial aid, compared with 20 percent of residents.
 Still, Mr. Duderstadt says, the university fulfills its public mandate by helping to drive the state's economy and continuing to educate Michigan's top students. While lawmakers still grumble about the large number of students from other states, the university, he says, didn't have alternatives. Earlier this year, state lawmakers studied the idea of taking privatization to the next level, by eliminating annual state funding. The university remains public, for now.
 Some flagships have gone far in severing ties with states. Five years ago, Virginia's four top public universities began negotiating a charter status that granted them broad autonomy, including the freedom to set tuition rates. Tuition and fees at the University of Virginia are now almost $10,000 for an entering resident, and $32,000 for a nonresident.
 At Virginia, most students can handle the steep price tags. In the 2006 census, the national median household income was $48,200, while the median graduating student at U.Va. reported a family income of $94,000. For those struggling to pay, the university bumped up aid. 
 Experts say more universities will follow the lead of Michigan and Virginia, receiving less public money and increasing tuition, private fund-raising and financial aid. Last month, the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, announced plans to double out-of-state enrollment, to nearly 30 percent, and mobilize more private donors.
 Another recent convert is the University of Wisconsin, Madison, a lakeside campus with Big Ten sports that draws 35 percent of its students from beyond the state's borders. Wisconsin's high percentage of nonresidents makes sense because the number of new high school graduates is projected to fall over the next decade in Wisconsin and several other Northern states. 
 Years of state cuts means a larger portion of the university's budget comes from tuition and fees, which it increased by 10 percent this year. 
 Mr. Shulenburger at the Association of Public Land Grant Universities cautions universities on the allure of out-of-state enrollment, because, he says, few can match the appeal of a Michigan or Wisconsin. There is a limited pool of out-of-state students, he says, and universities ''will begin raiding ourselves pretty quickly.'' 
 With a state economy in shambles, the University of Arizona was granted a waiver on its out-of-state enrollment cap, to go as high as 40 percent from an already high 30 percent. Robert N. Shelton, the university's president, says he has yet to take advantage of that wiggle room, mostly because of a huge increase in applicants from Arizona. 
 Currently, only 10 percent of students at Rutgers's New Brunswick campus come from outside New Jersey. The university could easily increase that number by tapping nearby New York and Pennsylvania. 
 ''The temptation for us to recruit more out-of-state students is very, very strong,'' says Douglas S. Greenberg, executive dean of the university's School of Arts and Sciences. State residents pay about $12,000 in tuition and fees, which is high for a public university. Out-of-state students pay almost twice that. 
 Each nonresident means one less slot for a New Jersey resident. Mr. Greenberg says that leaves Rutgers with two options: get bigger or increase tuition even more. Neither would be easy. Enrollment has topped 37,000 at the main campus in New Brunswick, a record. For the second consecutive year, the university has placed undergraduates in a Crowne Plaza hotel because of a lack of on-campus housing. This year there are 500. They ride shuttle buses for the five-mile trip to campus and were asked to pack light and leave posters at home. The upside: Housekeeping cleans rooms once a week, there's a television in every room and students can use the fitness center and swimming pools. 
 Mr. Greenberg says Rutgers, like most flagships, is wrestling with the gradual trend toward privatization. ''Every time tuition goes up, we increase the possibility that we become more like a private university,'' he says. This year, the State Legislature allowed Rutgers to increase tuition by only 3 percent, and the state is spending less on academic scholarships -- though financial aid applications are up 27 percent. University officials say they have filled gaps by raising money from private sources.
 THE STUDENT BODY: UP, UP, UP
 More than half of the seniors from Stuyvesant, New York City's most competitive public high school, apply to Binghamton, often called the jewel of the State University of New York, which has no flagship. For this fall, Binghamton University received 28,970 applications -- 15 percent more than 2007 -- to fill about 2,100 freshman spots. 
 Binghamton is not alone. Many flagships report big increases in the number of applicants, including good students transferring from private colleges, often for financial reasons. As a result, average SAT scores and grade-point averages have jumped. 
 The Westminster Schools, an elite high school in Atlanta, has sent a growing number of graduates to the University of Georgia. Of 200 last year, 41 headed to its Athens campus, double the number of a few years ago. 
 Nancy T. Beane, a college counselor at Westminster for 17 years, says some of its most-qualified students are choosing Georgia over Vanderbilt, Stanford and Ivy League universities. Part of the appeal is low tuition and the state's generous Hope Scholarship -- merit money awarded to about 97 percent of U.Ga.'s undergraduates. Until about five years ago, she says, some parents were surprised by the caliber of students at the University of Georgia. Not anymore. 
 While all this is generally a good thing, it means stiffer competition. Flagships are grappling with questions about who they are supposed to serve. Until recently, high school students with decent grades and SAT scores could reasonably expect to attend a top public university. The trickle-down tendency in admissions is affecting colleges further down in the pecking order. 
 One challenge is that a relatively small pool of minorities score 1300 on the SAT's verbal and math sections. So universities have had to work harder to preserve the pipeline of low-income and minority students. 
 Take Florida. The University of Central Florida, now the state's largest university, serves roughly the same demographic the University of Florida did 15 years ago. That's partly because the University of Florida accepts far fewer good students, sticking mostly to great ones. It is attracting students who also apply to Duke and Emory and other expensive private institutions. 
 Virtually all in-state students admitted at the university qualify for a generous state merit grant called Bright Futures, financed by the state lottery. And though tuition and fees rose by 15 percent this fall, it's still just $4,373, which is among the nation's cheapest. 
 But promising low-income students need convincing, and admissions officials travel to up to 15 Florida high schools in urban neighborhoods each year. Each school's counselors select the 50 top students they hope can compete, and the university spends a half day with them, answering questions and helping them fill out applications. 
 ''Our admissions officers are out there holding hands or whatever it takes,'' says Zina L. Evans, the associate provost for enrollment management and executive director of admissions.
 THE PUBLIC DRAW 
 Public universities have assets that privates do not. They offer powerhouse sports programs, bustling campuses and more diverse student bodies. 
 Lauren Ciolek went to a large public high school in Freehold, N.J. She applied to Rutgers in 2007 but picked Lehigh University, a private institution in Pennsylvania. 
 Ms. Ciolek wasn't happy at Lehigh, which she says was far less diverse than her high school. So she transferred to Rutgers this fall, where, she says, she's no longer ''in a bubble.'' 
 Rutgers has seen an uptick in New Jersey residents like Ms. Ciolek, who transferred back home after first attending private universities in Pennsylvania and Maryland. This fall, 3,100 students transferred in, an 8 percent increase from last year. 
 Officials say that part of the appeal is that Rutgers serves a broad range of students. 
 But public universities are straining to find qualified minority applicants, and to provide enough financial aid for that disproportionately low-income group as the budget crisis takes its toll. For now, they're ponying up the money to keep them part of the mix. 
 Courtney O. McAnuff, Rutgers's vice president for enrollment management, worries about the future. ''I don't know how much longer we'll be able to do it,'' he says. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ORIENTATION: In August, some 6,300 freshmen entered the University of Florida, one of the universities scrambling for money because states are kicking in less. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERICA BROUGH/GAINESVILLE SUN) (pg.ED20)
NO ROOM: Rutgers students like Leila Karam, above, live in a hotel and take a shuttle to campus. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.ED21)
CROWDED: Lecture halls are packed at U.C.L.A. Class size is up 20 percent over three years.
IMPACT: Susan Li, a U.C.L.A. senior, is worried because the courses she needs are not offered. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.ED22)
JERSEY GIRL: Lauren Ciolek transferred to Rutgers from a private college, for the diversity. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.ED24) GRAPHICS: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN ANN ARBOR LESS Has avoided major cutbacks with high tuition, private fund-raising and annual belt tightening over the last six years (like eliminating 12,000 square feet of flower plantings, to save $152,000). MORE Record $118 million in financial aid awarded this year, up 12 percent for undergraduates. University of WISCONSIN MADISON LESS Employees taking eight furlough days
about 20,000 eligible low-income students at Wisconsin's public institutions are not receiving state grants. MORE 39 percent of this year's freshmen from out of state, compared with 33 percent a decade ago. University OF GEORGIA ATHENS LESS 121 faculty and 123 staff positions left vacant
employees taking six furlough days. MORE About 4,900 students receiving Pell grants, an increase of 39 percent. RUTGERS NEW BRUNSWICK LESS Faculty raises delayed to avert hundreds of layoffs. MORE Record private fund-raising of $128 million, up 6 percent
enrollment of 37,360, up 8 percent over five years. UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LOS ANGELES LESS 165 courses and 428 staff positions cut, 162 hiring searches canceled, salaries reduced by $37 million. MORE Almost 56,000 applicants for this fall, an increase of 9 percent -- half with grade-point averages of 4.0 or above. UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA GAINESVILLE LESS Attrition of 81 faculty members, or 2 percent of total, over last year (100 junior faculty to be hired partly with stimulus funds). Student-to-faculty ratio of 20 to 1 is among nation's highest. This year's freshman class being trimmed by 400 slots. MORE Freshman class, chosen from about 26,000 applicants, with average high school G.P.A. of 4.24 (last year: 4.18). UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA TUCSON LESS 600 vacant faculty and staff positions left unfilled. MORE Record freshman class of 7,000, up by 300, including an 18 percent increase in Hispanic students.
(GRAPHICS BY JOE BRAUN (MICHIGAN)
ANDY MANIS (WISCONSIN), ERIK S. LESSER (GEORGIA), CHRIS RICHARDS (ARIZONA) FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 CHART: STATES' EVIDENCE: Does it add up? To counter a loss in tax revenues, most states have reduced the amount they contribute to the operating budgets of public colleges and universities. Even with federal stimulus funds, institutions have had to raise tuition to compensate. At the same time, the number of students who need their services -- a lower-cost education -- has increased. Below, the statistical shape of some of the nation's major publics, pre- and post-recession. Some figures are preliminary. (pg.ED24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); HISTORY (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (66%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (91%); UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (83%); UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%); UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); ATHENS, GA, USA (74%); MADISON, WI, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



34 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; BLACKBOARD CRIBS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 374 words

HEADLINE: Hold the Cinderblocks

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE LAGORIO

 BODY:
RECESSION? What recession? Some lucky undergraduates moved in to new luxury dorms this fall, with record price tags. To compete with private residential towers that lure students -- and their money -- off campus, colleges that are adding rooms keep adding amenities, says Joe Agron, editor of American School and University, which monitors campus construction. The biggest new trend is environmental touches like radiant in-floor heating and real-time energy monitors (like those at Carleton College's new Cassat and Memorial Hall). Wireless Internet in every bedroom? Expected. Communal bathrooms? They're so yesterday. Following are typical options at three new residence halls. 
 WHAT Single room/board, with private bath, in sorority-house-style clusters of 22 rooms each. WHERE First Street Towers, Purdue University (Ind.) COST $14,204 AMENITIES Entertainment centers made by Amish craftsmen in Shipshewana, a nod to the goal of the towers' general manager, Tom Paczolt, to help the local economy. (He's also counting on students to better respect ''heirloom quality'' furnishings.) Also in living spaces: kitchens that open onto coffee bars; two flat-screen TVs; rec room with pool table. GREEN Free energy-efficient laundry; eco-friendly cleaning products only. 
 WHAT Single room/board in eight-person suite, four share a bathroom. WHERE Student Village II, Boston University. COST $14,728 AMENITIES River vistas from rooms and 26th-floor common area; media room with plasma TV; soundproof piano rooms; washer/dryers that digitally alert students of their availability; walk-in closets. GREEN Individual heating/cooling controls in each suite; sensors that turn off heat and lighting after 12 vacant hours; renewable bamboo finish in common spaces; white roof that reduces ''heat island'' effect. 
 WHAT Single room/board in four-person suite, two share a bathroom. WHERE South Hall, George Washington University, D.C. COST $13,250 AMENITIES In each suite, washer/dryer, full kitchen (with dishwasher), dining and living room. GREEN In accordance with LEED silver certification; power jacks for electric cars in new below-ground garage; motion-detecting light fixtures; reusable Brita water bottles and dispensers in each suite. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW HANCOCK/PURDUE UNIVERSITY
 ANTON GRASSL/ESTO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT HOUSING (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HVAC SYSTEMS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (76%); GREEN BUILDING (76%); TRENDS (73%); POLISHES & SANITATION GOODS (71%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); MOTION DETECTORS (71%); CLEANERS (70%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (66%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (55%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (50%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PURDUE UNIVERSITY (83%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



35 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: For Debate: Who Picks School Board

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

DATELINE: MONTCLAIR, N.J. 

 BODY:
THE hot button in Tuesday's election in this school-obsessed suburb is not Democrat or Republican, Corzine or Christie, but something closer to home: Who gets to choose the school board?
Montclair, whose system of magnet schools has become a national model of racial integration, has one of the few remaining appointed boards in New Jersey (4 percent of school boards nationally are appointed).
 A group of residents who felt the board ignored their concerns about school budgets and policies put a referendum on Tuesday's ballot on whether to make the board elected, like those in 550 other New Jersey districts. A countergroup formed to defend the appointment process, and lines were drawn at farmers' markets, parks and coffeehouses, in the local newspaper and on blogs.
 ''It's out of control,'' said Ofira Bondorowsky, 35, a mother of two boys who wants an elected board. ''There are people who are getting a lot of heat from their friends.'' 
 The school board issue has divided a township of about 37,000, whose voters have rebuffed four previous efforts to change to an elected board, the last time in 1995, by more than 2 to 1. The debate has caught on again, amid frustration over rising property taxes and an influx of newcomers who moved to Montclair largely for its schools and want more say over everything from budgets to principal selection.
 Such campaigns have become more common in a tough economy, as parents with school-age children join forces with others to gain more control over the single largest expense for suburban communities: education. About 77 miles southwest of Montclair, Beverly residents will also vote on Tuesday on whether to switch from an appointed to an elected school board. In Brick Township on the Jersey Shore, which already holds direct school elections, voters unhappy with school spending helped to defeat a $172 million plan for school repairs in a September referendum.
 Similarly, busing costs drove two New York districts, Blind Brook, in Westchester County, and Commack, on Long Island, to hold referendums last spring on transporting fewer students (both proposals failed). And more generally, anti-tax sentiments spurred homeowners in Evans, near Buffalo, to vote to downsize their town board next year to three members from five.
 ''People are feeling that they have lost their voice, and it's reaching a point where it's becoming unacceptable,'' said Jerry Cantrell, president of the New Jersey Taxpayers Association, who blames school boards -- elected and appointed -- for failing to keep taxes in check. 
 But school superintendents and board members say the frustration over school spending is misdirected. They say they have little control over the fixed costs, like salaries and utilities, that make up more than three-quarters of school budgets. In many states, wealthy districts like Montclair get less state aid; and in suburbs with few businesses, homeowners carry the tax burden.
 The 6,700-student Montclair district spends an average of $15,101 per student, slightly higher than the state average of $14,359. But state aid accounts for 9 percent of the district's revenue, and local taxes, 86 percent, compared with a state average of 39 percent and 52 percent, respectively. The district raised its budget 3.3 percent this year to $113 million, the smallest increase in years, school officials said. Montclair homeowners faced a comparable increase in their property tax bills, to an average of $15,587.
 Montclair's school board has seven members, appointed by the mayor to unpaid three-year terms. There is no public vote on the budget. It is approved, instead, by a Board of School Estimate, which consists of the mayor and two members each from the school board and the elected Township Council.
 ''It's too incestuous here,'' Ms. Bondorowsky said. ''There's really no healthy debate going on. They're all kind of connected, and it is one big party, you know?'' 
 Jerry Fried, the mayor, acknowledged that the school board could communicate more about its decisions, and he is creating a nominating committee to involve more residents in selecting members. But he and some current school board members say the appointment system lets them focus on policy, not politics. 
 ''This is not prime-time TV,'' said Shirley Grill, 61, a business consultant who is serving her second term. ''There's a lot of deliberation, but I think they think we're not doing anything because it's quiet, it's done.''
 Shelly Lombard, 50, a financial analyst also in her second term, said many of the people raising concerns about the budget also worried about losing the best teachers to better-paying districts. ''I think this notion that we can automatically wave a wand and keep the budget down is unrealistic,'' she said.
 But Michael Villella, 43, an engineering consultant who pays about $10,000 a year in school taxes, said too much was spent on administration. At Watchung elementary school, which his two daughters attend, Mr. Villella said parents are asked to buy basic supplies like paper towels, tissues, markers and glue sticks. 
 ''The joke is, next year we're going to have to buy the textbooks,'' he said.
 Supporters of an appointed school board -- including the League of Women Voters of the Montclair Area -- counter that school board elections statewide typically draw less than 15 percent of voters, and that they would cost the town $50,000 a year. They worry that an elected board would attract only candidates willing to campaign, and that it could be hijacked by special-interest groups or parents who want to return to a system of neighborhood schools.
 Since 1977, Montclair's system of 10 magnet elementary and middle schools and one high school has built a reputation for integration and reducing the achievement gap between racial groups. Today's student body is 36 percent black, 7 percent Hispanic and 6 percent Asian. 
 ''There are a lot of new people who don't know the history of Montclair and the long, difficult struggle we went through to get to this point,'' said Carolyn Lack, 80, a spokeswoman for Montclair's League of Women Voters. 
 Advocates for an elected board include longtime residents like Thomas Russo, the former police chief, and Pegi Adam, who says she does not want to change the magnet system -- just to be included in decisions. ''The reason people live in a small town is so they can participate,'' she said.
 Ms. Adam handed out fliers the other night at a town debate on the school board issue that drew, among others, nine Boy Scouts taking notes for merit badges in citizenship and communication. Seven of the Scouts said they favored an appointed board.
 ''We have a lot of special programs and field trips that wouldn't be possible without high budgets,'' said Abe Kolko, 13, an eighth grader at Glenfield Middle School. ''Compared to a lot of places in the country, we have a relatively wealthy economic situation, and I think we can afford it.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TOWN HALL: Jerry Fried, who as mayor appoints Montclair's school board, at a town debate on having an elected body.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(MB9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL BOARDS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); REFERENDUMS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); SUBURBS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (73%); MAGNET SCHOOLS (73%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); RACE & RACISM (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2009



36 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; DECONSTRUCTED VOTING BOOTH; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Who's Who on Tuesday's Mayoral Ballot

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO and SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
Election officials compare them to a 1963 Studebaker (''it's a very good car, but it's very old'') and on Tuesday 7,000 squat voting booths, many manufactured almost 50 years ago by the Shoup Voting Machine Company of Canton, Ohio, will be stationed across the city. In addition to the ballot in each voting machine and sample ballots displayed at polling sites, the city's Board of Elections prints -- for each of the city's 6,000 election districts -- about 600 emergency ballots, 200 absentee ballots and 500 ballots that the disabled can mark with special devices. The printing is done by private companies and costs about $10 million. Ballots are printed in three languages besides English -- Spanish, Chinese and Korean -- depending on the demography of individual election districts. 
City election officials say they cannot remember major glitches on the ballots, like a spelling error, that required a recall. In 2008, one upstate district was said to have sent out absentee ballots listing ''Barack Osama.'' State legislation from the late 19th century requires each party to be listed on the ballot with a symbol as well as a name to make it easier for illiterate voters. Republicans use an eagle and Democrats a star, rather than the more familiar elephant and donkey, which began as political cartoons. The Libertarians use an arm of the Statue of Liberty, while the Conservatives took her torch. The parties are listed in the order of the number of votes they received in the last election of a governor; those that got fewer than 50,000 votes (Libertarian, Socialism and Liberalism, Socialist Workers, Green and Rent is Too Damn High) land in the order their petitions were filed with the Board of Elections. The Jobs & Education Party, which Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg created, is listed under his name on the Independence line because the city does not want candidates to monopolize the ballot by inventing new parties. Voters can also write in any name, including their own. In 2005, at least one vote was recorded for nearly 150 individuals, among them Daffy Duck, God, Jesus Christ and Howard Stern.
 DEMOCRATIC For a brief, dramatic moment, Mr. Bloomberg considered seeking the party's nomination, an unheard-of gamble for a non-Democrat. But the party's five county chairmen stuck with William C. Thompson Jr., now the comptroller.
WORKING FAMILIES The union-financed party backed Mr. Thompson by a razor-thin margin, despite intense lobbying from the Bloomberg campaign. Members bitterly opposed the mayor's flip-flop on term limits, which cost him the ballot line.
 SOCIALISM AND LIBERALISM This new party did not field citywide candidates four years ago. Francisca Villar, a 26-year-old college student, won the nomination. She said she hopes to represent ''the homeless, the gay and lesbian youth, the city worker that can't support his family, the single mother that has two jobs.''
 SOCIALIST WORKERS Daniel Fein, a 64-year-old garment worker from Harlem, is the nominee. The party platform calls for, among other things, ''guaranteed unemployment compensation at union scale for all workers until they find a job.''
 GREEN State party leaders asked the Rev. Billy Talen, the self-proclaimed pastor of the Church of Life After Shopping, to run for mayor. Unopposed, he was overwhelmingly endorsed by the party's New York City members.
 RENT IS TOO (DAMN) HIGH The founder of the bluntly named party, Jimmy McMillan, is its perennial nominee for mayor. Four years ago, the city's Board of Elections allowed the full name of the organization to appear on the ballot. This time, it has expurgated the word ''damn,'' much to Mr. McMillan's dismay.
 REPUBLICAN The party's chairmen threatened to back the mayor's rival as payback for his switch from Republican to independent two years ago. But a $250,000 donation from the mayor helped assuage their anger.
 INDEPENDENCE It took a visit from the mayor, an agreement to help settle a nasty political dispute, a vow to take a second look at nonpartisan elections and a $250,000 contribution from Mr. Bloomberg to secure this ballot line.
 CONSERVATIVE The party's five county leaders did not endorse Mr. Bloomberg because of his moderate stands on bread-and-butter conservative issues. They instead recruited their own candidate, Stephen A. Christopher, the pastor at a Baptist church in Brooklyn, who faced no competitor within the party.
 LIBERTARIAN Its candidate, Joseph L. Dobrian, 53, is a freelance writer and editor and also designs retro suits. The party favors ''less government, lower taxes, more freedom'' -- including the freedom to smoke in bars. In 2005, the Libertarian candidate received 2,888 votes. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THE NEW YORK TIMES
 PHOTOGRAPH OF VOTING MACHINE BY NICOLE BENGIVENO) CHART (Source: Board of Elections and party leaders) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (93%); BALLOTS (92%); ELECTRONIC VOTING MACHINES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); LIBERALISM (86%); POLITICS (79%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LOBBYING (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PETITIONS (74%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (71%); TERM LIMITS (63%); FAMILY (62%); RELIGION (60%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009



37 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3099 words

HEADLINE: Can Citigroup Carry Its Own Weight?

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN and GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
Correction Appended
 OVER the past 80 years, the United States government has engineered not one, not two, not three, but at least four rescues of the institution now known as Citigroup. In previous instances, the bank came back from the crisis and prospered.
Will Citigroup rise again from its recent near-death experience?
 The answer to that question concerns not only the 276,000 employees who work at what was once the world's largest bank, but the nation's taxpayers as well. Even as Citigroup's stock has soared from a low of $1.02 to its current $4.09 -- and the company has eked out a $101 million profit in the third quarter along the way -- it's still unclear whether it can climb out of the hole that its former leaders dug before and during the mortgage mania. If Citigroup remains stuck, taxpayers will be on the hook for outsize losses.
 Citigroup remains a sprawling, complex enterprise, with 200 million customer accounts and operations in more than 100 countries. And when people talk about institutions that have grown so large and entwined in the economy that regulators have deemed them too big to be allowed to fail, Citigroup is the premier example. 
 As a result, the government has handed Citigroup $45 billion under the Troubled Asset Relief Program over the last year. Through the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, a major bank regulator, the government has also agreed to back roughly $300 billion in soured assets that sit on Citigroup's books. Even as other troubled institutions recently curtailed their use of another F.D.I.C. program that backs new debt issued by banks, Citigroup has continued to tap the arrangement. 
 Citigroup is also one of only two TARP recipients so desperate for capital that they've swapped government-issued shares into common stock, diluting existing shareholders. (GMAC, the troubled auto lender that may receive another government infusion, is the other.) 
 While Citigroup has written down tens of billions of dollars' worth of mortgages on its books, there are looming problems in its huge credit card portfolio. Of the company's $1.2 trillion in credit commitments outstanding in the second quarter, $873 billion were credit card lines. A measure of the bank's efforts to wrestle that problem to the ground is the interest it charges customers: in October, Citigroup raised interest rates on some credit card holders to 29.99 percent. 
 Chris Whalen, editor of the Institutional Risk Analyst, calls Citigroup ''the queen of the zombie dance,'' referring to the group of financial institutions that the government has on life support. 
 ''They are hoping that a combination of bank assistance and maximizing revenue and buying time will let them survive,'' he said. ''When I look at the whole picture, Citigroup is in the process of resolution. I continue to believe the equity is worth zero and that the company will have to go to bondholders for some kind of money to make the bank stable.'' 
 VIKRAM S. PANDIT, Citigroup's C.E.O., said in an interview that he was confident that Citigroup was on the right course, focusing on global banking and shedding segments of the company -- like insurance and the brokerage business -- that aren't part of that mission. To date, he said Citigroup had sharply reduced its expenses, improved how it monitors risk, and established a management team that he said would return the bank to sustained profitability.
 ''Our distinctiveness is we connect the world better than anyone else,'' he said, noting Citigroup's global reach. ''We have a great capability of building a business around that. And we are in the process of building a culture around that.''
 Mr. Pandit said he was working with federal regulators on a schedule for paying back TARP funds, which he said was crucial to restoring Citigroup's image among consumers. ''It's very hard to change perceptions in this marketplace,'' he said. ''We are not a troubled bank. We have a lot of assistance from the government. We can't fight that.''
 In trying to right itself, Citigroup plans to undo much of what it did during a period some insiders call the lost decade -- with events that included merging with Travelers Group in 1998 and a huge, dizzying expansion of its asset base. To untangle the company, Mr. Pandit has split Citigroup in half. One part consists of operations that Citigroup executives consider central to the bank's future; these include retail banking worldwide, investment banking and transaction services for institutional clients. 
 The other part contains businesses that Citigroup executives hope to exit or unload. This includes asset management and consumer lending, such as residential and commercial real estate, as well as auto loans and student loans. Citigroup is also selling some of the many companies it acquired in recent years. In the weak economy, however, buyers are few. 
 To be sure, Citigroup's financial cushion has fattened significantly, thanks in large part to taxpayer relief -- prompting some banking analysts to be relatively optimistic about the bank's prospects.
 One is Matt O'Connor, an analyst at Deutsche Bank. He says that Citigroup is still saddled with potential risks, but that it's well positioned for an economic recovery, in that it can sell off assets more quickly, or for another downturn, since it has government protection and relatively little commercial real estate exposure.
 ''We find Citi shares could reach $10,'' Mr. O'Connor wrote in a recent report to investors. ''However this may be several years away and many uncertainties remain -- both to Citi and banks over all.''
 Yet compared with other big banks like JPMorgan Chase or the Goldman Sachs Group, Citigroup's operations are not yet generating enough profits to cover potentially devastating write-downs to come. In the third quarter, none of the units upon which Citigroup has pinned its hopes showed a jump in revenue.
 Analysts at Fitch Ratings project that Citigroup will continue to be plagued with hefty loan loss provisions and that its operations will remain weak into 2010. The primary reason for Citigroup's woes, of course, is relatively straightforward. The bank simply placed too large a bet on risky consumer loans, especially mortgages. These were often repackaged into complex financial instruments that went sour when the economy collapsed. Citigroup ended up eating these losses. 
 Citigroup also sank deeper into the swamp of troubled loans than its peers, according to interviews with more than a dozen former employees and analysts, because of a number of other factors: a culture of deal-making that trumped efforts to help existing businesses grow on their own; constant churn among the executive ranks; the sapping of top talent; the blunting of dissent; and a drive to mimic competitors' risk-taking while failing to assess when those gambles were becoming perilous.
 A byproduct of these flaws is now smoldering on taxpayers' doorstep, causing worries on Capitol Hill that the United States may never get back the bailout money it gave to Citigroup. Representative Lloyd Doggett, a Texas Democrat on the House Ways and Means Committee, recently registered unease about the government's guarantee of $300 billion in Citigroup assets and how effectively the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, was monitoring the bank. 
 ''We cannot know the full scope of the taxpayers' potential cost from these hasty guarantees,'' Mr. Doggett said last week in an e-mail message. ''Inexplicably, Secretary Geithner appears unwilling to commit to conduct an analysis, despite my specific request to him in March. A critical and transparent examination of the response to the financial crisis is essential not only to learn from past mistakes, but also to prevent further erosion of the public's trust in government.''
 The Treasury secretary declined to comment. 
 Neil M. Barofsky, special inspector general of TARP, has assembled a team to examine how Citigroup is using taxpayer funds. In a Sept. 21 letter to Mr. Doggett, he said: ''The Citigroup guarantees raise important oversight concerns.'' 
 Those concerns are shared by others, particularly financial analysts. 
 ''Traditional banking is still in a recession, and the situation is very tenuous,'' said Janet Tavakoli, founder of Tavakoli Structured Finance, a consulting firm. ''If we do get our money back from Citi, some of it will be the money we printed to give to them.''
 ALTHOUGH history does not repeat, now and then, as Mark Twain famously proclaimed, it rhymes. Nowhere in the financial world, perhaps, is that more true than for Citigroup. 
 During the 1920s, the institution then known as National City Bank opened stores around the country to encourage the burgeoning middle class to invest in stocks and bonds. With little money down -- 10 percent of the cost of a trade was all an investor needed to buy shares -- investors poured into the stock market. Charles E. Mitchell, C.E.O. of National City, hyped these sales throughout the period. His nickname was ''Sunshine Charley.''
 Then came the Great Crash of 1929. Vilified as a ''bankster'' in the aftermath of the crash, Mr. Mitchell testified to Congress that banks ''were too ready to loan, too ready to meet the competition of neighbors, too willing to cut down their margins to a point of encouraging excessive bargaining.''
 Before the crash, industry practice allowed National City not only to underwrite securities but also to employ a sales army to peddle them to depositors. After Congressional hearings determined that this conflict of interest was a major cause of the debacle, lawmakers passed the Glass-Steagall Act, separating activities of commercial banks (which offered plain old savings accounts and loans) from those of investment firms (which trafficked in more highflying endeavors like stock trading and underwriting). 
 Although thousands of smaller banks failed, government policies to prop up the banking sector helped National City and other major banks weather the Depression. 
 Fifty years later, what was then known as Citicorp found itself in trouble again as huge loans to developing countries in Latin America soured. The federal government weakened capital and accounting requirements to allow big American banks to survive the crisis. Still, in the early 1990s, the bank was in a precarious state because of its problems in Latin America, coupled with losses in commercial real estate and a weak economy. 
 Citicorp survived this crisis with an infusion of cash from a Saudi Arabian prince and a gift from Alan Greenspan, then the chairman of the Federal Reserve. Mr. Greenspan's Fed kept interest rates unusually low, allowing Citicorp and other troubled banks to borrow money cheaply and lend at higher rates to their customers. 
 By 1998, Citicorp had more than regained its footing and was willing to take a more aggressive stance. At the direction of its chief executive, John S. Reed, Citicorp agreed to join forces with the Travelers Group, an amalgam of insurance, brokerage and investment banking services run by a brash dealmaker named Sanford I. Weill. The largest merger in history followed, creating a colossus named Citigroup with $700 billion in assets. 
 Because Travelers had an investment firm under its umbrella, the creation of Citigroup prompted Congress to eliminate what remained of the Depression-era separation between Main Street banking and Wall Street trading. Mr. Reed and Mr. Weill argued persuasively for the change, and, along with the rest of the financial industry, deployed an armada of lobbyists in Washington. In 1999, Congress overturned Glass-Steagall. 
 ''By liberating our financial companies from an antiquated regulatory structure, this legislation will unleash the creativity of our industry and insure our global competitiveness,'' Mr. Weill and Mr. Reed, Citigroup's co-chairmen and co-chief executives, said in a statement after Congress repealed the law. ''As a result, all Americans -- investors, savers, insureds -- will be better served.''
 Former employees wax nostalgic about the early days of the merger.
 ''Across the board, it was clearly No. 1,'' said one former top executive who requested anonymity to maintain relationships with former colleagues. ''You had franchises that were the envy of the world. It was a remarkably powerful institution.''
 Profits soared, and by 2003, Citigroup was generating nearly $18 billion a year in them. But even as the money flowed, the euphoria over earnings was tempered by personnel upheaval, recurrent scandals and the realities of managing such a behemoth.
 Mr. Weill's longtime sidekick and heir apparent, Jamie Dimon, was ousted eight months after the merger. (He now runs JPMorgan, a bank that has weathered the financial downturn much better than most of its large rivals.) A steady exodus of top talent followed Mr. Dimon's departure from Citigroup; it has only accelerated since the financial crisis began in 2007.
 In the last decade, for instance, Citigroup has had four chief executives, six chief financial officers, seven heads of consumer banking and eight investment banking chiefs.
 Bank of America, by contrast, has had two C.E.O.'s, four chief financial officers and one chief operating officer during the same period -- though that relative stability didn't spare the bank from mistakes and pain in the crisis. 
 After a series of financial scandals that tarnished the bank's reputation, Mr. Weill announced his retirement as chief executive at the end of 2003, handing the reins to Charles O. Prince III, his longtime general counsel who had navigated the company through its various legal and regulatory crises but had never run a major financial institution. Mr. Prince did not return several phone calls seeking comment.
 Deal-making largely continued unabated under Mr. Prince, while the bank's myriad parts were never effectively knit together. During his three-and-a-half-year reign, Citigroup bought five large mortgage lenders or loan servicers and four credit card lenders or portfolios. This buying spree would almost certainly have been larger had the Federal Reserve Bank of New York not barred Citigroup from making acquisitions for 12 months between the spring of 2005 and 2006 -- a ban that followed complaints by foreign regulators that Citigroup's risk management practices were dangerously lax. 
 Even with occasional regulatory restraints, Citigroup's assets ballooned from $1.49 trillion to $2.19 trillion from 2005 to 2007, an increase of 46.9 percent (and three times the size of Citigroup's balance sheet when the merger that created it occurred).
 But amid that impressive growth, dubious mortgage loans and questionable trading in mortgage and other debt-related securities began to undermine Citigroup's finances. One ugly class of securities continues to haunt the bank: collateralized debt obligations, or C.D.O.'s. 
 From 2004 to the beginning of 2008, Citigroup underwrote $70 billion in C.D.O.'s but had to keep $57 billion of that amount on its own books when it couldn't find buyers, according to a class-action lawsuit filed in federal court in Manhattan, on behalf of disgruntled Citigroup investors. The suit contends that by late 2006, Citigroup's C.D.O. operations ''had devolved into a Ponzi scheme where unsold portions of older C.D.O. securitizations were recycled as the asset base for new C.D.O. securitizations.''
 Furthermore, the lawsuit says, Citigroup executives engaged in various accounting gimmicks to conceal the bank's ownership of assets that eventuallysoured. Citigroup denies the allegations and says it will vigorously fight the suit. 
 Still, the unfortunate truth about the bank during the last several years, according to analysts and former insiders, is that it was managed horribly. ''They just blew it,'' said one former Citigroup executive, who like many others interviewed for this article requested anonymity because of pending lawsuits and a desire to preserve relationships with former colleagues. ''It's really hard to drive the car if you don't have the headlights on.''
 If Citigroup was driving blind, regulators seem to have been unaware. Officials at the Office of Comptroller of the Currency and the New York Fed -- overseen at the time by Mr. Geithner, who has since become the Treasury secretary -- stood by as Citigroup amassed a portfolio that would ultimately generate losses of more than $35 billion.
 CITIGROUP'S financial architecture remains rickety. One reason is that it relies much more heavily than most other large domestic banks on uninsured deposits in overseas locales, where customers are quick to pull their money at the first sign of trouble. Also, some of the accounting machinery it put in place to temporarily move assets off of its balance sheet (and make the bank look financially healthier) has backfired. 
 Mr. Pandit maintained that Citigroup's strategy would take some time and depended in part on how the economy fared. Should the economy continue to improve, for instance, he said the bank would snare handsome returns when it sells off assets. Other assets, like some mortgages, for example, will simply be paid off over time, he said.
 ''We have time,'' he said. ''If markets do turn around, these are going to be very valuable businesses. This is going to take awhile.'' Yet analysts say that for Citigroup to survive, it must quickly sell the businesses it wants to exit. And that is especially hard to do given that it is shopping its wares at a time when few people appear to want them, particularly Citigroup's middle-tier operations in far-flung regions around the globe. 
 That means the plan to offload the orphan businesses is likely to take much longer than Citigroup's management had hoped. In January 2009, two years was an estimate for this wind-down, but that is looking more improbable by the day, according to analysts and others familiar with the bank's operations. 
 Mr. Whalen, the bank analyst, thinks that squaring away Citigroup's problems will take more than low interest rates and taxpayer assistance. 
 ''Citigroup will need future capital injections,'' he said. ''Eventually what happens with Citigroup is the government is going to turn to the bondholders and say we can't put any more money into this. You own the company now.'' 
 Correction: November 03, 2009
 A picture caption on Sunday with an article about Citigroup misstated the terms under which Sanford I. Weill, the company's former chief executive, left it in 2003. Mr. Weill retired; he did not resign. 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 3, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Sunday with an article about Citigroup misstated the terms under which Sanford I. Weill, the company's former chief executive, left it in 2003. Mr. Weill retired; he did not resign. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Charles O. Prince III, left, in 2003, when he took over as chief executive of Citigroup upon the resignation of Sanford I. Weill, right.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU6) DRAWING (DRAWING BY TIM BOWER)(BU1)
 CHART: How Many People Does It Take to Run a Bank?: Citigroup has had far more turnover among executives than its peers in the last decade.(Source: the companies)(BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); CREDIT CARDS (86%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); COMMON STOCK (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); NEW ISSUES (65%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (82%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (82%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (82%)

PERSON: SANDY WEILL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



38 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3113 words

HEADLINE: Can Citigroup Carry Its Own Weight?

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN and GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
 OVER the past 80 years, the United States government has engineered not one, not two, not three, but at least four rescues of the institution now known as Citigroup. In previous instances, the bank came back from the crisis and prospered.
Will Citigroup rise again from its recent near-death experience?
 The answer to that question concerns not only the 276,000 employees who work at what was once the world's largest bank, but the nation's taxpayers as well. Even as Citigroup's stock has soared from a low of $1.02 to its current $4.09 -- and the company has eked out a $101 million profit in the third quarter along the way -- it's still unclear whether it can climb out of the hole that its former leaders dug before and during the mortgage mania. If Citigroup remains stuck, taxpayers will be on the hook for outsize losses.
 Citigroup remains a sprawling, complex enterprise, with 200 million customer accounts and operations in more than 100 countries. And when people talk about institutions that have grown so large and entwined in the economy that regulators have deemed them too big to be allowed to fail, Citigroup is the premier example. 
 As a result, the government has handed Citigroup $45 billion under the Troubled Asset Relief Program over the last year. Through the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, a major bank regulator, the government has also agreed to back roughly $300 billion in soured assets that sit on Citigroup's books. Even as other troubled institutions recently curtailed their use of another F.D.I.C. program that backs new debt issued by banks, Citigroup has continued to tap the arrangement. 
 Citigroup is also one of only two TARP recipients so desperate for capital that they've swapped government-issued shares into common stock, diluting existing shareholders. (GMAC, the troubled auto lender that may receive another government infusion, is the other.) 
 While Citigroup has written down tens of billions of dollars' worth of mortgages on its books, there are looming problems in its huge credit card portfolio. Of the company's $1.2 trillion in credit commitments outstanding in the second quarter, $873 billion were credit card lines. A measure of the bank's efforts to wrestle that problem to the ground is the interest it charges customers: in October, Citigroup raised interest rates on some credit card holders to 29.99 percent. 
 Chris Whalen, editor of the Institutional Risk Analyst, calls Citigroup ''the queen of the zombie dance,'' referring to the group of financial institutions that the government has on life support. 
 ''They are hoping that a combination of bank assistance and maximizing revenue and buying time will let them survive,'' he said. ''When I look at the whole picture, Citigroup is in the process of resolution. I continue to believe the equity is worth zero and that the company will have to go to bondholders for some kind of money to make the bank stable.'' 
 VIKRAM S. PANDIT, Citigroup's C.E.O., said in an interview that he was confident that Citigroup was on the right course, focusing on global banking and shedding segments of the company -- like insurance and the brokerage business -- that aren't part of that mission. To date, he said Citigroup had sharply reduced its expenses, improved how it monitors risk, and established a management team that he said would return the bank to sustained profitability.
 ''Our distinctiveness is we connect the world better than anyone else,'' he said, noting Citigroup's global reach. ''We have a great capability of building a business around that. And we are in the process of building a culture around that.''
 Mr. Pandit said he was working with federal regulators on a schedule for paying back TARP funds, which he said was crucial to restoring Citigroup's image among consumers. ''It's very hard to change perceptions in this marketplace,'' he said. ''We are not a troubled bank. We have a lot of assistance from the government. We can't fight that.''
 In trying to right itself, Citigroup plans to undo much of what it did during a period some insiders call the lost decade -- with events that included merging with Travelers Group in 1998 and a huge, dizzying expansion of its asset base. To untangle the company, Mr. Pandit has split Citigroup in half. One part consists of operations that Citigroup executives consider central to the bank's future; these include retail banking worldwide, investment banking and transaction services for institutional clients. 
 The other part contains businesses that Citigroup executives hope to exit or unload. This includes asset management and consumer lending, such as residential and commercial real estate, as well as auto loans and student loans. Citigroup is also selling some of the many companies it acquired in recent years. In the weak economy, however, buyers are few. 
 To be sure, Citigroup's financial cushion has fattened significantly, thanks in large part to taxpayer relief -- prompting some banking analysts to be relatively optimistic about the bank's prospects.
 One is Matt O'Connor, an analyst at Deutsche Bank. He says that Citigroup is still saddled with potential risks, but that it's well positioned for an economic recovery, in that it can sell off assets more quickly, or for another downturn, since it has government protection and relatively little commercial real estate exposure.
 ''We find Citi shares could reach $10,'' Mr. O'Connor wrote in a recent report to investors. ''However this may be several years away and many uncertainties remain -- both to Citi and banks over all.''
 Yet compared with other big banks like JPMorgan Chase or the Goldman Sachs Group, Citigroup's operations are not yet generating enough profits to cover potentially devastating write-downs to come. In the third quarter, none of the units upon which Citigroup has pinned its hopes showed a jump in revenue.
 Analysts at Fitch Ratings project that Citigroup will continue to be plagued with hefty loan loss provisions and that its operations will remain weak into 2010. The primary reason for Citigroup's woes, of course, is relatively straightforward. The bank simply placed too large a bet on risky consumer loans, especially mortgages. These were often repackaged into complex financial instruments that went sour when the economy collapsed. Citigroup ended up eating these losses. 
 Citigroup also sank deeper into the swamp of troubled loans than its peers, according to interviews with more than a dozen former employees and analysts, because of a number of other factors: a culture of deal-making that trumped efforts to help existing businesses grow on their own; constant churn among the executive ranks; the sapping of top talent; the blunting of dissent; and a drive to mimic competitors' risk-taking while failing to assess when those gambles were becoming perilous.
 A byproduct of these flaws is now smoldering on taxpayers' doorstep, causing worries on Capitol Hill that the United States may never get back the bailout money it gave to Citigroup. Representative Lloyd Doggett, a Texas Democrat on the House Ways and Means Committee, recently registered unease about the government's guarantee of $300 billion in Citigroup assets and how effectively the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, was monitoring the bank. 
 ''We cannot know the full scope of the taxpayers' potential cost from these hasty guarantees,'' Mr. Doggett said last week in an e-mail message. ''Inexplicably, Secretary Geithner appears unwilling to commit to conduct an analysis, despite my specific request to him in March. A critical and transparent examination of the response to the financial crisis is essential not only to learn from past mistakes, but also to prevent further erosion of the public's trust in government.''
 The Treasury secretary declined to comment. 
 Neil M. Barofsky, special inspector general of TARP, has assembled a team to examine how Citigroup is using taxpayer funds. In a Sept. 21 letter to Mr. Doggett, he said: ''The Citigroup guarantees raise important oversight concerns.'' 
 Those concerns are shared by others, particularly financial analysts. 
 ''Traditional banking is still in a recession, and the situation is very tenuous,'' said Janet Tavakoli, founder of Tavakoli Structured Finance, a consulting firm. ''If we do get our money back from Citi, some of it will be the money we printed to give to them.''
 ALTHOUGH history does not repeat, now and then, as Mark Twain famously proclaimed, it rhymes. Nowhere in the financial world, perhaps, is that more true than for Citigroup. 
 During the 1920s, the institution then known as National City Bank opened stores around the country to encourage the burgeoning middle class to invest in stocks and bonds. With little money down -- 10 percent of the cost of a trade was all an investor needed to buy shares -- investors poured into the stock market. Charles E. Mitchell, C.E.O. of National City, hyped these sales throughout the period. His nickname was ''Sunshine Charley.''
 Then came the Great Crash of 1929. Vilified as a ''bankster'' in the aftermath of the crash, Mr. Mitchell testified to Congress that banks ''were too ready to loan, too ready to meet the competition of neighbors, too willing to cut down their margins to a point of encouraging excessive bargaining.''
 Before the crash, industry practice allowed National City not only to underwrite securities but also to employ a sales army to peddle them to depositors. After Congressional hearings determined that this conflict of interest was a major cause of the debacle, lawmakers passed the Glass-Steagall Act, separating activities of commercial banks (which offered plain old savings accounts and loans) from those of investment firms (which trafficked in more highflying endeavors like stock trading and underwriting). 
 Although thousands of smaller banks failed, government policies to prop up the banking sector helped National City and other major banks weather the Depression. 
 Fifty years later, what was then known as Citicorp found itself in trouble again as huge loans to developing countries in Latin America soured. The federal government weakened capital and accounting requirements to allow big American banks to survive the crisis. Still, in the early 1990s, the bank was in a precarious state because of its problems in Latin America, coupled with losses in commercial real estate and a weak economy. 
 Citicorp survived this crisis with an infusion of cash from a Saudi Arabian prince and a gift from Alan Greenspan, then the chairman of the Federal Reserve. Mr. Greenspan's Fed kept interest rates unusually low, allowing Citicorp and other troubled banks to borrow money cheaply and lend at higher rates to their customers. 
 By 1998, Citicorp had more than regained its footing and was willing to take a more aggressive stance. At the direction of its chief executive, John S. Reed, Citicorp agreed to join forces with the Travelers Group, an amalgam of insurance, brokerage and investment banking services run by a brash dealmaker named Sanford I. Weill. The largest merger in history followed, creating a colossus named Citigroup with $700 billion in assets. 
 Because Travelers had an investment firm under its umbrella, the creation of Citigroup prompted Congress to eliminate what remained of the Depression-era separation between Main Street banking and Wall Street trading. Mr. Reed and Mr. Weill argued persuasively for the change, and, along with the rest of the financial industry, deployed an armada of lobbyists in Washington. In 1999, Congress overturned Glass-Steagall. 
 ''By liberating our financial companies from an antiquated regulatory structure, this legislation will unleash the creativity of our industry and insure our global competitiveness,'' Mr. Weill and Mr. Reed, Citigroup's co-chairmen and co-chief executives, said in a statement after Congress repealed the law. ''As a result, all Americans -- investors, savers, insureds -- will be better served.''
 Former employees wax nostalgic about the early days of the merger.
 ''Across the board, it was clearly No. 1,'' said one former top executive who requested anonymity to maintain relationships with former colleagues. ''You had franchises that were the envy of the world. It was a remarkably powerful institution.''
 Profits soared, and by 2003, Citigroup was generating nearly $18 billion a year in them. But even as the money flowed, the euphoria over earnings was tempered by personnel upheaval, recurrent scandals and the realities of managing such a behemoth.
 Mr. Weill's longtime sidekick and heir apparent, Jamie Dimon, was ousted eight months after the merger. (He now runs JPMorgan, a bank that has weathered the financial downturn much better than most of its large rivals.) A steady exodus of top talent followed Mr. Dimon's departure from Citigroup; it has only accelerated since the financial crisis began in 2007.
 In the last decade, for instance, Citigroup has had four chief executives, six chief financial officers, seven heads of consumer banking and eight investment banking chiefs.
 Bank of America, by contrast, has had two C.E.O.'s, four chief financial officers and one chief operating officer during the same period -- though that relative stability didn't spare the bank from mistakes and pain in the crisis. 
 After a series of financial scandals that tarnished the bank's reputation, Mr. Weill announced his retirement as chief executive at the end of 2003, handing the reins to Charles O. Prince III, his longtime general counsel who had navigated the company through its various legal and regulatory crises but had never run a major financial institution. Mr. Prince did not return several phone calls seeking comment.
 Deal-making largely continued unabated under Mr. Prince, while the bank's myriad parts were never effectively knit together. During his three-and-a-half-year reign, Citigroup bought five large mortgage lenders or loan servicers and four credit card lenders or portfolios. This buying spree would almost certainly have been larger had the Federal Reserve Bank of New York not barred Citigroup from making acquisitions for 12 months between the spring of 2005 and 2006 -- a ban that followed complaints by foreign regulators that Citigroup's risk management practices were dangerously lax. 
 Even with occasional regulatory restraints, Citigroup's assets ballooned from $1.49 trillion to $2.19 trillion from 2005 to 2007, an increase of 46.9 percent (and three times the size of Citigroup's balance sheet when the merger that created it occurred).
 But amid that impressive growth, dubious mortgage loans and questionable trading in mortgage and other debt-related securities began to undermine Citigroup's finances. One ugly class of securities continues to haunt the bank: collateralized debt obligations, or C.D.O.'s. 
 From 2004 to the beginning of 2008, Citigroup underwrote $70 billion in C.D.O.'s but had to keep $57 billion of that amount on its own books when it couldn't find buyers, according to a class-action lawsuit filed in federal court in Manhattan, on behalf of disgruntled Citigroup investors. The suit contends that by late 2006, Citigroup's C.D.O. operations ''had devolved into a Ponzi scheme where unsold portions of older C.D.O. securitizations were recycled as the asset base for new C.D.O. securitizations.''
 Furthermore, the lawsuit says, Citigroup executives engaged in various accounting gimmicks to conceal the bank's ownership of assets that eventuallysoured. Citigroup denies the allegations and says it will vigorously fight the suit. 
 Still, the unfortunate truth about the bank during the last several years, according to analysts and former insiders, is that it was managed horribly. ''They just blew it,'' said one former Citigroup executive, who like many others interviewed for this article requested anonymity because of pending lawsuits and a desire to preserve relationships with former colleagues. ''It's really hard to drive the car if you don't have the headlights on.''
 If Citigroup was driving blind, regulators seem to have been unaware. Officials at the Office of Comptroller of the Currency and the New York Fed -- overseen at the time by Mr. Geithner, who has since become the Treasury secretary -- stood by as Citigroup amassed a portfolio that would ultimately generate losses of more than $35 billion.
 CITIGROUP'S financial architecture remains rickety. One reason is that it relies much more heavily than most other large domestic banks on uninsured deposits in overseas locales, where customers are quick to pull their money at the first sign of trouble. Also, some of the accounting machinery it put in place to temporarily move assets off of its balance sheet (and make the bank look financially healthier) has backfired. 
 Mr. Pandit maintained that Citigroup's strategy would take some time and depended in part on how the economy fared. Should the economy continue to improve, for instance, he said the bank would snare handsome returns when it sells off assets. Other assets, like some mortgages, for example, will simply be paid off over time, he said.
 ''We have time,'' he said. ''If markets do turn around, these are going to be very valuable businesses. This is going to take awhile.'' Yet analysts say that for Citigroup to survive, it must quickly sell the businesses it wants to exit. And that is especially hard to do given that it is shopping its wares at a time when few people appear to want them, particularly Citigroup's middle-tier operations in far-flung regions around the globe. 
 That means the plan to offload the orphan businesses is likely to take much longer than Citigroup's management had hoped. In January 2009, two years was an estimate for this wind-down, but that is looking more improbable by the day, according to analysts and others familiar with the bank's operations. 
 Mr. Whalen, the bank analyst, thinks that squaring away Citigroup's problems will take more than low interest rates and taxpayer assistance. 
 ''Citigroup will need future capital injections,'' he said. ''Eventually what happens with Citigroup is the government is going to turn to the bondholders and say we can't put any more money into this. You own the company now.'' 
 BACK TO BUSINESS: This series examines the battles to reshape the financial industry.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 3, 2009

 CORRECTION:
 A picture caption on Sunday with an article about Citigroup misstated the terms under which Sanford I. Weill, the company's former chief executive, left it in 2003. Mr. Weill retired; he did not resign. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Charles O. Prince III, left, in 2003, when he took over as chief executive of Citigroup upon the resignation of Sanford I. Weill, right.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU6) DRAWING (DRAWING BY TIM BOWER)(BU1)
 CHART: How Many People Does It Take to Run a Bank?: Citigroup has had far more turnover among executives than its peers in the last decade.(Source: the companies)(BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); CREDIT CARDS (86%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); COMMON STOCK (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); NEW ISSUES (65%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (82%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (82%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (82%)

PERSON: SANDY WEILL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2009



39 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: Fraud Watch for Homeowners

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
MORTGAGE fraud continues to expand, in both the number of incidents and the methods that criminals use to strip equity from homeowners and lenders. Now a new online service offers free help to keep homeowners safe from an emerging form of fraud known as ''house theft.''
 Like other real estate Web sites, this new service, called ePropertyWatch.com, provides informal home appraisals and other information to help track neighborhood real estate activity. But unlike the others, it also monitors public documents associated with a home and promises to alert homeowners to possible criminal activity, like a forged deed that purports to transfer a home's title in order to release an existing mortgage. 
In this form of fraud, thieves take ''ownership'' of the home so they can ''sell'' it to nefarious associates who have taken out another loan on the property. The ''seller'' then splits the sale proceeds with the fraudulent buyer.
 Industry analysts called ePropertyWatch's service a useful tool for homeowners, though it is being offered only in major metropolitan areas right now.
 EPropertyWatch is owned by First American CoreLogic, a company based in Santa Ana, Calif., which, among other things, collects real estate and mortgage data from municipalities and sells it to businesses.
 Reported cases of mortgage fraud over all jumped 36 percent during the 2008 fiscal year, from the previous 12 months, to nearly 64,000 incidents, according to an annual report released in July by the F.B.I.
 Although house theft, or ''title theft,'' is less common than other forms of mortgage fraud, Ann Fulmer, the vice president for business relations at Interthinx, a fraud-prevention company that contributed data to the F.B.I. report, said it was ''incredibly easy to do.'' This type of fraud is most prevalent in cities with many vacant properties, like Detroit and Miami, she said. 
 Users register for the ePropertyWatch service by identifying their home's address and then choosing their name from a list of randomly generated made-up names, to help ensure that only the true property owner registers on the site.
 Brad Strothkamp, an analyst with Forrester Research, a research and consulting firm in Cambridge, Mass., said the fraud detection service was particularly helpful. 
 ''It's so difficult to get this type of information from such a reputable source,'' he said, referring to both the fraud detection and the automated appraisal information.
 To estimate a home's value, ePropertyWatch uses information like nearby home sales and recent property appraisals, among other data. That informal appraisal, said Michael Maron, a senior vice president with First American, will typically be within 10 percent of the home's actual market value.
 The Web site also shows recent sales and foreclosures in the user's neighborhood, as well as long-term changes in the median sales price of the ZIP code. Users can sign up to receive an e-mail message whenever a new lien is placed on the home, for instance, or when their assessed value changes by any amount the homeowners deem significant.
 Mr. Strothkamp said consumers might use the site's automated appraisals to help them cut their property taxes. Mr. Strothkamp, who lives in Northern California, said homeowners in areas with declining property values could collect evidence and present it to their local tax assessor as part of the formal challenge process.
 There is one weakness in the service that will affect a significant number of homeowners. Namely, it covers only major metropolitan areas, so residents in outlying areas cannot yet register for the service because First American does not have enough reliable data on such areas. 
 Some suburbs like Westchester County, for instance, are not yet covered, while others, like New Haven County in Connecticut, are only partly covered. 

GRAPHIC: CHART (Source: MSM Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); REAL ESTATE APPRAISALS (89%); FORECLOSURE (79%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (79%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); CRIME PREVENTION (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); CITIES (71%); ANNUAL REPORTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (63%); CONSULTING SERVICES (50%)

COMPANY: CORELOGIC INC (55%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%)

TICKER: CLGX (NYSE) (55%); FORR (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (55%); NAICS524127 DIRECT TITLE INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (55%); SIC6361 TITLE INSURANCE (55%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2010



40 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; GENERATION B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: The Difference a Year Makes

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP. 
E-mail: Generationb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
BABY boomers are counted as lucky for having lived through a time of unprecedented prosperity. But Harry MacAvoy, 52, believes that within his generation, there was one year to be born that was luckier than the rest, 1957.
 ''We completely missed the upheaval of the 60s, the Vietnam protests on campus, the draft,'' said Mr. MacAvoy, who is research director for Republican legislators in the New York State Assembly and happens to have been born in, yes, 1957. ''But we were old enough to remember the moon landing, the opening of Disney World and we got to college at the height of anything goes.''
Mr. MacAvoy -- born Sept. 3, 1957, and raised in suburban Long Island, N.Y. -- has spun a cradle-to-grave theory of supreme luckiness, using himself as the case in point. This includes being in college when the legal drinking age was 18 and having his children in college when the legal age is 21; buying a first home when the real estate market was depressed and selling that home when real estate prices soared; looking for his first job just as the 1980s recession ended; and knowing now, in the middle of this recession, that he can retire at 56 with a good pension. 
 He considers himself lucky to have been young in the 1960s, so as not to have been traumatized by the Kennedy and King assassinations. But also lucky to have been old enough, at age 7, to feel wowed by the nearby New York World's Fair, making a dozen trips with his family in 1964 and '65.
 At the height of his youthful sports fanaticism, in 1969, the Jets won Super Bowl III and the Mets the World Series. ''I was at Shea Sept. 24, 1969, the night the Mets clinched the division title and fans stormed the field,'' he said. ''Unbelievable for a 12-year-old boy.''
 On the other hand, because he was a newborn in 1957 when the Dodgers left for Los Angeles, he never felt conflicted about his Mets allegiance, and never, as an adult, felt compelled to read a Brooklyn Dodgers nostalgia book.
 His brother Paul Jr., six years older, was drafted and served two years in the military, but when Mr. MacAvoy was a sophomore at Baldwin High in 1973, the draft ended. ''With Vietnam past, there were no big issues of the day that galvanized us in college,'' he said. ''Protesting -- did not happen. I never joined a political movement, not even Young Republicans.''
 From 1975 to 1982, he got his bachelors degree at SUNY College at Oswego and then went to graduate school for public policy at the State University at Albany. This sheltered him from a deadly job market, (10.8 percent unemployment in 1982).
 As for the legal drinking age of 18: ''What a party, one heck of a time in college. Friday afternoon, we'd go down to the local beer distributor and roll the kegs in.''
 ''I lived in a 10 story high-rise dorm,'' he said. ''You couldn't get off the elevator without getting a whiff, dope or cigarettes, depending which floor.''
 Genesee Beer was a sponsor of the college hockey games. Between periods, student contestants were called to the ice and if they shot a puck through a target, they won a prize. ''Through the largest opening, you won a six-pack of Genny beer; middle-size hole, a case; and the smallest hole, a keg. Could you imagine anything like that today?''
 Unlike older boomers, Mr. MacAvoy was young enough to take computer science courses in college.
 He married Debra Poland in 1982, at the height of the recession. A buffet dinner with an open bar cost them $15 a head. ''The whole catering bill was $1,500,'' he said.
 He received his master's degree in public policy in December 1982, worked a short-term job for six months and then in mid-1983, as the economy improved, was hired as a legislative analyst in the office of research and program development for the Assembly's minority party. He has been there since, becoming director in 2002. ''Yes, it's been very stable,'' he said. Assembly Republicans have been in the minority since 1975, and because they now are outnumbered, 109 to 40, his job status isn't likely to change any time soon.
 When inflation rocketed in the early '80s, (13.5 percent 1980), his assets were liquid, as he and his wife saved for a down payment on a home. ''I remember getting 14.9 percent on a C.D.''
 In 1984, as the real estate market hit bottom, they bought their first home, in Ballston Spa, N.Y., a four bedroom for $89,000. Eight years later, in 1992, as real estate boomed, they sold it for double the money, and bought a new four bedroom on 1.5 acres in Saratoga Springs for about what they sold their first home. They're still in that house, have paid off the mortgage and despite the current depressed market, estimate it's worth almost double what they paid.
 When Mr. MacAvoy was in high school, a friend was killed while driving drunk. ''Everything was looser then -- there weren't even seat-belt laws,'' he said. (In 1984 New York State became the first to mandate the wearing of seat belts.) His daughters were born in 1989 and 1991, and by the time they were in high school, MADD (founded in 1980) and SADD (1981) were powerful social forces.
 ''It's less worry for me as a parent today,'' Mr. MacAvoy said. ''We have smoke alarms and carbon monoxide detectors and airbags. If a sex offender moves nearby he has to register.''
 His daughter Laura is a junior at the State University at Binghamton, his daughter Carolyn a freshman at the State University at Buffalo. ''There are blue emergency lights all over these campuses if they feel threatened,'' he said. He used to call home on Sundays; he and his wife speak to their daughters by cell several times a week. During campus tours, he was amazed by all the rules. ''I guess the two biggest are no drinking and no smoking,'' he said. ''The Buffalo campus is going completely smoke free, even outdoors.''
 He's happy, that the legal drinking age for his daughters is 21. ''It's what they grew up with; they don't know any different,'' he said.
 Their college education has also been well-timed to shelter them from the economy.
 Because there is heart disease in his family, he monitors himself closely, and five years ago, when his cholesterol was over 220, went on a statin. His father, Paul, a World War II vet and an accounts manager, had chest pains in 1972 when he was 63. He went into the hospital overnight and was back at work the next day. ''There was no medication then,'' Mr. MacAvoy said. Two months later, on the way home from work, his father collapsed and died of heart failure.
 Long before the surgeon general's report in 1964 linked cigarettes to cancer, Mr. MacAvoy's mother, Pearl, smoked two packs of unfiltered Pall Malls a day. She died of lung cancer in 1978, at age 59.
 Mr. MacAvoy does not smoke, swims a mile several times a week and works out on a stair-climbing machine daily.
 He belongs to the state pension system and will be eligible to retire with 30 years in 2013, the year he expects to be done paying for his younger daughter's college education. He makes $106,000 a year, and with cost of living increases, could be earning nearly $120,000 by then, and would get 60 percent of his three highest earning years -- $60,000 to $70,000 a year for life. In 2019, at 62, he will also be eligible to collect Social Security, about $20,000 additional a year. ''The consensus is Social Security will still be solvent then,'' he said.
 E-mail: Generationb@nytimes.com 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TIME PASSAGES: Harry MacAvoy, top, with his future wife at college in Oswego, N.Y., and recently at the Capitol in Albany. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BABY BOOMERS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (88%); RECESSION (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (79%); CHILDREN (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (67%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2010



41 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3060 words

HEADLINE: Can Citigroup Carry Its Own Weight?

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN and GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
OVER the past 80 years, the United States government has engineered not one, not two, not three, but at least four rescues of the institution now known as Citigroup. In previous instances, the bank came back from the crisis and prospered. 
 Will Citigroup rise again from its recent near-death experience?
 The answer to that question concerns not only the 276,000 employees who work at what was once the world's largest bank, but the nation's taxpayers as well. Even as Citigroup's stock has soared from a low of $1.02 to its current $4.09 -- and the company has eked out a $101 million profit in the third quarter along the way -- it's still unclear whether it can climb out of the hole that its former leaders dug before and during the mortgage mania. If Citigroup remains stuck, taxpayers will be on the hook for outsize losses.
 Citigroup remains a sprawling, complex enterprise, with 200 million customer accounts and operations in more than 100 countries. And when people talk about institutions that have grown so large and entwined in the economy that regulators have deemed them too big to be allowed to fail, Citigroup is the premier example. 
 As a result, the government has handed Citigroup $45 billion under the Troubled Asset Relief Program over the last year. Through the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, a major bank regulator, the government has also agreed to back roughly $300 billion in soured assets that sit on Citigroup's books. Even as other troubled institutions recently curtailed their use of another F.D.I.C. program that backs new debt issued by banks, Citigroup has continued to tap the arrangement. 
 Citigroup is also one of only two TARP recipients so desperate for capital that they've swapped government-issued shares into common stock, diluting existing shareholders. (GMAC, the troubled auto lender that may receive another government infusion, is the other.) 
 While Citigroup has written down tens of billions of dollars' worth of mortgages on its books, there are looming problems in its huge credit card portfolio. Of the company's $1.2 trillion in credit commitments outstanding in the second quarter, $873 billion were credit card lines. A measure of the bank's efforts to wrestle that problem to the ground is the interest it charges customers: in October, Citigroup raised interest rates on some credit card holders to 29.99 percent. 
 Chris Whalen, editor of the Institutional Risk Analyst, calls Citigroup ''the queen of the zombie dance,'' referring to the group of financial institutions that the government has on life support. 
 ''They are hoping that a combination of bank assistance and maximizing revenue and buying time will let them survive,'' he said. ''When I look at the whole picture, Citigroup is in the process of resolution. I continue to believe the equity is worth zero and that the company will have to go to bondholders for some kind of money to make the bank stable.'' 
 VIKRAM S. PANDIT, Citigroup's C.E.O., said in an interview that he was confident that Citigroup was on the right course, focusing on global banking and shedding segments of the company -- like insurance and the brokerage business -- that aren't part of that mission. To date, he said Citigroup had sharply reduced its expenses, improved how it monitors risk, and established a management team that he said would return the bank to sustained profitability.
 ''Our distinctiveness is we connect the world better than anyone else,'' he said, noting Citigroup's global reach. ''We have a great capability of building a business around that. And we are in the process of building a culture around that.''
 Mr. Pandit said he was working with federal regulators on a schedule for paying back TARP funds, which he said was crucial to restoring Citigroup's image among consumers. ''It's very hard to change perceptions in this marketplace,'' he said. ''We are not a troubled bank. We have a lot of assistance from the government. We can't fight that.''
 In trying to right itself, Citigroup plans to undo much of what it did during a period some insiders call the lost decade -- with events that included merging with Travelers Group in 1998 and a huge, dizzying expansion of its asset base. To untangle the company, Mr. Pandit has split Citigroup in half. One part consists of operations that Citigroup executives consider central to the bank's future; these include retail banking worldwide, investment banking and transaction services for institutional clients. 
 The other part contains businesses that Citigroup executives hope to exit or unload. This includes asset management and consumer lending, such as residential and commercial real estate, as well as auto loans and student loans. Citigroup is also selling some of the many companies it acquired in recent years. In the weak economy, however, buyers are few. 
 To be sure, Citigroup's financial cushion has fattened significantly, thanks in large part to taxpayer relief -- prompting some banking analysts to be relatively optimistic about the bank's prospects.
 One is Matt O'Connor, an analyst at Deutsche Bank. He says that Citigroup is still saddled with potential risks, but that it's well positioned for an economic recovery, in that it can sell off assets more quickly, or for another downturn, since it has government protection and relatively little commercial real estate exposure.
 ''We find Citi shares could reach $10,'' Mr. O'Connor wrote in a recent report to investors. ''However this may be several years away and many uncertainties remain -- both to Citi and banks over all.''
 Yet compared with other big banks like JPMorgan Chase or the Goldman Sachs Group, Citigroup's operations are not yet generating enough profits to cover potentially devastating write-downs to come. In the third quarter, none of the units upon which Citigroup has pinned its hopes showed a jump in revenue.
 Analysts at Fitch Ratings project that Citigroup will continue to be plagued with hefty loan loss provisions and that its operations will remain weak into 2010. The primary reason for Citigroup's woes, of course, is relatively straightforward. The bank simply placed too large a bet on risky consumer loans, especially mortgages. These were often repackaged into complex financial instruments that went sour when the economy collapsed. Citigroup ended up eating these losses. 
 Citigroup also sank deeper into the swamp of troubled loans than its peers, according to interviews with more than a dozen former employees and analysts, because of a number of other factors: a culture of deal-making that trumped efforts to help existing businesses grow on their own; constant churn among the executive ranks; the sapping of top talent; the blunting of dissent; and a drive to mimic competitors' risk-taking while failing to assess when those gambles were becoming perilous.
 A byproduct of these flaws is now smoldering on taxpayers' doorstep, causing worries on Capitol Hill that the United States may never get back the bailout money it gave to Citigroup. Representative Lloyd Doggett, a Texas Democrat on the House Ways and Means Committee, recently registered unease about the government's guarantee of $300 billion in Citigroup assets and how effectively the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, was monitoring the bank. 
 ''We cannot know the full scope of the taxpayers' potential cost from these hasty guarantees,'' Mr. Doggett said last week in an e-mail message. ''Inexplicably, Secretary Geithner appears unwilling to commit to conduct an analysis, despite my specific request to him in March. A critical and transparent examination of the response to the financial crisis is essential not only to learn from past mistakes, but also to prevent further erosion of the public's trust in government.''
 The Treasury secretary declined to comment. 
 Neil M. Barofsky, special inspector general of TARP, has assembled a team to examine how Citigroup is using taxpayer funds. In a Sept. 21 letter to Mr. Doggett, he said: ''The Citigroup guarantees raise important oversight concerns.'' 
 Those concerns are shared by others, particularly financial analysts. 
 ''Traditional banking is still in a recession, and the situation is very tenuous,'' said Janet Tavakoli, founder of Tavakoli Structured Finance, a consulting firm. ''If we do get our money back from Citi, some of it will be the money we printed to give to them.''
 ALTHOUGH history does not repeat, now and then, as Mark Twain famously proclaimed, it rhymes. Nowhere in the financial world, perhaps, is that more true than for Citigroup. 
 During the 1920s, the institution then known as National City Bank opened stores around the country to encourage the burgeoning middle class to invest in stocks and bonds. With little money down -- 10 percent of the cost of a trade was all an investor needed to buy shares -- investors poured into the stock market. Charles E. Mitchell, C.E.O. of National City, hyped these sales throughout the period. His nickname was ''Sunshine Charley.''
 Then came the Great Crash of 1929. Vilified as a ''bankster'' in the aftermath of the crash, Mr. Mitchell testified to Congress that banks ''were too ready to loan, too ready to meet the competition of neighbors, too willing to cut down their margins to a point of encouraging excessive bargaining.''
 Before the crash, industry practice allowed National City not only to underwrite securities but also to employ a sales army to peddle them to depositors. After Congressional hearings determined that this conflict of interest was a major cause of the debacle, lawmakers passed the Glass-Steagall Act, separating activities of commercial banks (which offered plain old savings accounts and loans) from those of investment firms (which trafficked in more highflying endeavors like stock trading and underwriting). 
 Although thousands of smaller banks failed, government policies to prop up the banking sector helped National City and other major banks weather the Depression. 
 Fifty years later, what was then known as Citicorp found itself in trouble again as huge loans to developing countries in Latin America soured. The federal government weakened capital and accounting requirements to allow big American banks to survive the crisis. Still, in the early 1990s, the bank was in a precarious state because of its problems in Latin America, coupled with losses in commercial real estate and a weak economy. 
 Citicorp survived this crisis with an infusion of cash from a Saudi Arabian prince and a gift from Alan Greenspan, then the chairman of the Federal Reserve. Mr. Greenspan's Fed kept interest rates unusually low, allowing Citicorp and other troubled banks to borrow money cheaply and lend at higher rates to their customers. 
 By 1998, Citicorp had more than regained its footing and was willing to take a more aggressive stance. At the direction of its chief executive, John S. Reed, Citicorp agreed to join forces with the Travelers Group, an amalgam of insurance, brokerage and investment banking services run by a brash dealmaker named Sanford I. Weill. The largest merger in history followed, creating a colossus named Citigroup with $700 billion in assets. 
 Because Travelers had an investment firm under its umbrella, the creation of Citigroup prompted Congress to eliminate what remained of the Depression-era separation between Main Street banking and Wall Street trading. Mr. Reed and Mr. Weill argued persuasively for the change, and, along with the rest of the financial industry, deployed an armada of lobbyists in Washington. In 1999, Congress overturned Glass-Steagall. 
 ''By liberating our financial companies from an antiquated regulatory structure, this legislation will unleash the creativity of our industry and insure our global competitiveness,'' Mr. Weill and Mr. Reed, Citigroup's co-chairmen and co-chief executives, said in a statement after Congress repealed the law. ''As a result, all Americans -- investors, savers, insureds -- will be better served.''
 Former employees wax nostalgic about the early days of the merger.
 ''Across the board, it was clearly No. 1,'' said one former top executive who requested anonymity to maintain relationships with former colleagues. ''You had franchises that were the envy of the world. It was a remarkably powerful institution.''
 Profits soared, and by 2003, Citigroup was generating nearly $18 billion a year in them. But even as the money flowed, the euphoria over earnings was tempered by personnel upheaval, recurrent scandals and the realities of managing such a behemoth.
 Mr. Weill's longtime sidekick and heir apparent, Jamie Dimon, was ousted eight months after the merger. (He now runs JPMorgan, a bank that has weathered the financial downturn much better than most of its large rivals.) A steady exodus of top talent followed Mr. Dimon's departure from Citigroup; it has only accelerated since the financial crisis began in 2007.
 In the last decade, for instance, Citigroup has had four chief executives, six chief financial officers, seven heads of consumer banking and eight investment banking chiefs.
 Bank of America, by contrast, has had two C.E.O.'s, four chief financial officers and one chief operating officer during the same period -- though that relative stability didn't spare the bank from mistakes and pain in the crisis. 
 After a series of financial scandals that tarnished the bank's reputation, Mr. Weill announced his retirement as chief executive at the end of 2003, handing the reins to Charles O. Prince III, his longtime general counsel who had navigated the company through its various legal and regulatory crises but had never run a major financial institution. Mr. Prince did not return several phone calls seeking comment.
 Deal-making largely continued unabated under Mr. Prince, while the bank's myriad parts were never effectively knit together. During his three-and-a-half-year reign, Citigroup bought five large mortgage lenders or loan servicers and four credit card lenders or portfolios. This buying spree would almost certainly have been larger had the Federal Reserve Bank of New York not barred Citigroup from making acquisitions for 12 months between the spring of 2005 and 2006 -- a ban that followed complaints by foreign regulators that Citigroup's risk management practices were dangerously lax. 
 Even with occasional regulatory restraints, Citigroup's assets ballooned from $1.49 trillion to $2.19 trillion from 2005 to 2007, an increase of 46.9 percent (and three times the size of Citigroup's balance sheet when the merger that created it occurred).
 But amid that impressive growth, dubious mortgage loans and questionable trading in mortgage and other debt-related securities began to undermine Citigroup's finances. One ugly class of securities continues to haunt the bank: collateralized debt obligations, or C.D.O.'s. 
 From 2004 to the beginning of 2008, Citigroup underwrote $70 billion in C.D.O.'s but had to keep $57 billion of that amount on its own books when it couldn't find buyers, according to a class-action lawsuit filed in federal court in Manhattan, on behalf of disgruntled Citigroup investors. The suit contends that by late 2006, Citigroup's C.D.O. operations ''had devolved into a Ponzi scheme where unsold portions of older C.D.O. securitizations were recycled as the asset base for new C.D.O. securitizations.''
 Furthermore, the lawsuit says, Citigroup executives engaged in various accounting gimmicks to conceal the bank's ownership of assets that eventually soured. Citigroup denies the allegations and says it will vigorously fight the suit. 
 Still, the unfortunate truth about the bank during the last several years, according to analysts and former insiders, is that it was managed horribly. ''They just blew it,'' said one former Citigroup executive, who like many others interviewed for this article requested anonymity because of pending lawsuits and a desire to preserve relationships with former colleagues. ''It's really hard to drive the car if you don't have the headlights on.''
 If Citigroup was driving blind, regulators seem to have been unaware. Officials at the Office of Comptroller of the Currency and the New York Fed -- overseen at the time by Mr. Geithner, who has since become the Treasury secretary -- stood by as Citigroup amassed a portfolio that would ultimately generate losses of more than $35 billion.
 CITIGROUP'S financial architecture remains rickety. One reason is that it relies much more heavily than most other large domestic banks on uninsured deposits in overseas locales, where customers are quick to pull their money at the first sign of trouble. Also, some of the accounting machinery it put in place to temporarily move assets off of its balance sheet (and make the bank look financially healthier) has backfired. 
 Mr. Pandit maintained that Citigroup's strategy would take some time and depended in part on how the economy fared. Should the economy continue to improve, for instance, he said the bank would snare handsome returns when it sells off assets. Other assets, like some mortgages, for example, will simply be paid off over time, he said.
 ''We have time,'' he said. ''If markets do turn around, these are going to be very valuable businesses. This is going to take awhile.'' Yet analysts say that for Citigroup to survive, it must quickly sell the businesses it wants to exit. And that is especially hard to do given that it is shopping its wares at a time when few people appear to want them, particularly Citigroup's middle-tier operations in far-flung regions around the globe. 
 That means the plan to offload the orphan businesses is likely to take much longer than Citigroup's management had hoped. In January 2009, two years was an estimate for this wind-down, but that is looking more improbable by the day, according to analysts and others familiar with the bank's operations. 
 Mr. Whalen, the bank analyst, thinks that squaring away Citigroup's problems will take more than low interest rates and taxpayer assistance. 
 ''Citigroup will need future capital injections,'' he said. ''Eventually what happens with Citigroup is the government is going to turn to the bondholders and say we can't put any more money into this. You own the company now.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Charles O. Prince III, left, in 2003, when he took over as chief executive of Citigroup upon the resignation of Sanford I. Weill, right.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. BU6) DRAWING (DRAWING BY TIM BOWER)
 CHART: How Many People Does It Take to Run a Bank?: Citigroup has had far more turnover among executives than its peers in the last decade.(Source: the companies)(pg. BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); CREDIT CARDS (86%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); COMMON STOCK (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); NEW ISSUES (65%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (82%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (82%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (82%)

PERSON: SANDY WEILL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



42 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MT; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; HOLIDAY MOVIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1696 words

HEADLINE: Fearless Young Actors Making Statements

BYLINE: By KAREN DURBIN

 BODY:
Nicholas Hoult: 'A Single Man'
 The English actor Nicholas Hoult has been working in film and television since he was 6. American audiences may know him for his role as Marcus, the put-upon, round-cheeked 12-year-old who tenderized Hugh Grant's heartless playboy in the 2002 romantic comedy ''About a Boy.'' Since then, thanks to snagging the alpha male role in the hugely popular teenagers-gone-wild British television series ''Skins,'' he has become a certified heartthrob at home. A midnight skinny-dipping scene in the designer Tom Ford's drama ''A Single Man'' (Dec. 11) suggests one reason why. Mr. Hoult is now a lithe, graceful 6-foot-3, and along the way that formerly chubby face has acquired dramatic cheekbones, a lush lower lip, sparkling deep-blue eyes and thick eyebrows that shoot up so sharply that he looks a bit like an alien, albeit a very handsome one. 
 That oddness dovetails nicely with his role in ''A Single Man,'' because Mr. Hoult plays an angel of sorts, one thoroughly human but able to rescue Colin Firth's emotionally devastated title character, George Falconer, a transplanted Englishman who is a literature professor at a small California college. Mr. Hoult's Kenny is his most engaged student, at once all-American yet bohemian enough to pal around campus with a sultry girl who takes pains to look like a dead ringer for Brigitte Bardot. Falconer has lost his lover of 16 years in a car accident, and because it's 1962 and his lover was male, he has been trapped alone inside his anguish for eight months and it's killing his will to live. Early reviews have noted that Mr. Firth is at a peak in this award-winning performance. But so is Mr. Hoult, joining him in a brilliant 25-minute pas de deux that plays out on what threatens to be the professor's last night on earth. 
 When Kenny pushes himself into Falconer's life, it's with a mix of deference and iron will that's both charming and funny. But Mr. Hoult also gives him flickers of anxious need that send an unmistakable message -- to us, if not immediately to the cautious, indrawn Falconer -- that Kenny is coming to terms with his own desires and wants help from the one man he hopes will understand. He's going out on a limb, and when he discovers a tucked-away photo of Falconer's naked lover, his gaze devours it, not with lust but relief. He's found someone else like him, and it's a man he admires. As for Falconer, this brave, incandescent boy allows him to see the future again, not his future perhaps, but a future, and that's enough. 
 Katie Jarvis: 'Fish Tank'
 When Katie Jarvis was first approached in a British train station to audition for the lead in Andrea Arnold's ''Fish Tank'' (Jan. 15), she didn't believe it for a minute and refused to give the casting agent her number. For one thing, she had never acted before, and for another, she was busy having a shouting match with her boyfriend on the opposite platform. She couldn't know it, but that's what caught the casting agent's eye.
 Mia, the 15-year-old girl Ms. Jarvis ultimately agreed to play, has been expelled from school and is at war with the world. Within moments of the movie's opening, she's in a screaming fight with her mother (Shrieking mum: ''What is wrong with you?'' Shrieking Mia: ''You're what's wrong with me!''), and minutes later answers the taunts of an ex-friend with a head butt worthy of a hired goon.
 The great achievement of Ms. Jarvis's performance is that she makes Mia utterly likable without ever trying to solicit anyone's sympathy, onscreen or off. The world she inhabits is harsh -- her young, sexy mother resents her existence, and the vast housing estate where they live generates a real-life soundtrack of hip-hop, pop tunes and endless squabbling. 
 It is a while before you realize that Mia doesn't start fights, but the speed and violence of her response to aggression says everything about her expectation of harm. Her anger is also a barricade against fear. When a couple of older boys jump her, she battles them with such vivid, full-bore fury that they run off laughing. 
 When Mia is alone -- which is often -- Ms. Jarvis makes her focused and contained. Lanky, athletic and industrious, she's always on the move and enough of a tomboy that when she sneaks a little of her mother's makeup, it's startling to see how pretty she is. Her only plan for escaping the life she has been handed involves frequent retreats to a vacant flat in the complex, where she practices her hip-hop dancing with intense concentration. The never quite good enough quality of her skills is one of Ms. Jarvis's best moves. 
 Ms. Jarvis is 18 now, and she has an agent. She may be a novice, but her talent is obvious. This is never more apparent than in the delicacy of her scenes with the gifted Michael Fassbender, who plays her mother's attractive new boyfriend. He's startlingly nice -- a possible peacekeeper in a war zone. But it isn't long before he takes the wrong kind of notice of Mia, and, as her mix of budding hope and wary hesitation attests, against his assault of kindness she has no defenses at all. 
 Kodi Smit-Mcphee: 'The Road'
 John Hillcoat's post-apocalyptic drama ''The Road'' (Nov. 25) is based on Cormac McCarthy's most parablelike novel, with its leading characters, a father and a son, known only as The Man and The Boy. It's a challenge for any actor to infuse an emblematic figure with specific, detailed life, but the astonishingly sure-footed Kodi Smit-McPhee, who was 11 at the time of shooting, makes it look effortless -- or as effortless as this grueling story allows. Playing alongside Viggo Mortensen, as the loving father who persists in instilling in his son a sense of ethics in the face of savagery, he becomes the moral pivot on which the movie turns.
 Father and son make their way across a ruined landscape where civilization and nature itself seem long dead and gangs of predators live off the flesh of less hardy or rapacious survivors, including children. This is the only world The Boy has ever known, and it's terrifying. And yet, although the movie opens with his high, panicked cry, ''Papa, Papa,'' as the earth rumbles under their feet, Kodi keeps melodrama at bay with a clarity and restraint that make The Boy a fascinating paradox. He is at once the steadiest and most vulnerable figure in a setting so wildly violent it makes social Darwinism look like a minuet. 
 At the same time a sharp-eyed tension and a barely suppressed anxiety render his age unreadable. Children aren't supposed to look like this, and at one point he doesn't. A lucky find has given the half-starved pair a chance to eat their fill, sleep without worry and even bathe. The Boy grows younger before our eyes, the years falling away as Kodi's features gradually relax into the soft face of a child.
 Born into a family of actors, Kodi, now 13, has won two prestigious awards in his native Australia for a previous film, ''Romulus, My Father,'' with Eric Bana. Which may explain something that happened when the script called for Mr. Mortensen to dip the back of his young co-star's head into a chilly stream. The water was so shockingly icy that Kodi came up crying and couldn't stop -- but he never broke character and, as a result, the scene is one of extraordinary power, The Boy in his father's arms, his awful suffering exposed at last. 
 Anna Kendrick: 'Up In the Air'
 During a celebrity-packed party at the Hamptons International Film Festival last month, Anna Kendrick responded modestly to a question about the musical talent that brought her a Tony nomination for her work in the Broadway production of ''High Society'' when she was 12. Five years later, it won her the part of Fredrika in the New York City Opera's ''Little Night Music.'' Now 24, Ms. Kendrick has been concentrating on her film career, although in her biggest movie yet, Jason Reitman's ''Up in the Air'' (Dec. 4), she gets to sing too, after a fashion. 
 In person Ms. Kendrick is tiny and adorable-looking, but on-screen she's no softy. In Mr. Reitman's dark-edged new comedy, which plays out amid the ravages of the current recession, she is hilarious and scary as Natalie, a ferociously perky young professional so hellbent on success that her game plan resembles an obsessive-compulsive disorder. As Ryan and Alex, business travelers who like spending more time in airport hotels than in their homes, George Clooney (below with Ms. Kendrick) and Vera Farmiga are the suave, witty headliners. They put the romance in this film, but it's Ms. Kendrick's job to supply the belly laughs. 
 Mr. Reitman has said he wrote Natalie for Ms. Kendrick after seeing her win-at-any-cost high school debater in the 2007 indie comedy ''Rocket Science.'' The roles are similar, but ''Up in the Air'' gives her more to play with. She's gloriously absurd, whether abruptly wailing like a child in the middle of an airport when she gets dumped by text message or doing her best to shed her uptightness at a business party, belting out a karaoke tune just off-key enough to sound real while executing some of the funniest bad-dance moves ever to lurch across a movie screen.
 Expertly balancing comic realism and farce, Ms. Kendrick only gradually suggests that Natalie's ruthlessness doesn't come naturally. But before that she supplies some of the film's grimmest humor. Natalie and Ryan work for a company that fires people, sending its smooth-talking hatchet men and women all over the country to deliver the chop. When she proposes that the company fatten its profits by firing people via computer video, Ryan talks their boss into letting him take her on the road so she can see what a sensitive job it is. 
 In a fluorescent-lighted room set aside for the purpose, Natalie silently observes as Ryan delicately inflicts one body blow after another, working his way down a long list of the about-to-be-jobless. She looks horrified, then angry -- who wouldn't be? Only it soon becomes clear that she's outraged not by the misery they're serving up, but by the silky encouragement Ryan so skillfully wraps it in. At that moment Ms. Kendrick makes Natalie a perfect mirror of these brutal times. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EDUARD GRAU/WEINSTEIN COMPANY
HOLLY HORNER/IFC FILMS
DALE ROBINETTE/PARAMOUNT PICTURES
 DIMENSION FILMS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); COMEDY FILMS (78%); FILM (78%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); LITERATURE (65%)

PERSON: COLIN FIRTH (79%); HUGH GRANT (ACTOR) (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



43 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Port Mortuary's Pull

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 Michelle had gone up to New York to watch the World Series opener with Jill Biden and Yogi Berra. 
 The president had dinner at the White House with Sasha and Malia. Then, shortly before midnight, he donned a dark overcoat, boarded Marine One and flew to Dover Air Force Base.
 On the tarmac in the darkness, he stood at attention, saluting, as 18 flag-draped cases were taken off an Air Force C-17 and carried to Port Mortuary by military teams in camouflage fatigues and black berets. 
 The Halloween-eve parade of death included casualties from America's most horrific day in Afghanistan in four years, and its bloodiest month of the war. 
 It may have been a photo op, another way Obama could show he was not W., the president who started the Iraq war in a haze of fakery and then declined to ever confront the reality of its dead. 
 Certainly, as Obama tries to figure out how to avoid being a war president when he's saddled with two wars, he wants as much military cred in the bank as he can get. 
 But it was also a genuinely poignant moment. It is how we want our presidents to behave, doing the humane thing especially when it's hard. And Obama, who called it ''a sobering reminder'' of sacrifices made, signaled to Americans that he will resist blinders as he grapples with the byzantine, seemingly bottomless conflicts he inherited. 
 Leave it to Liz Cheney, in her continuing bid to out-Cheney her scary dad, to suggest that Obama is a crass publicity-seeker.
 ''I think that what President Bush used to do is do it without the cameras,'' she told a Fox News radio host. 
 She's right: There were no press cameras at Dover in the previous administration. There was also no W.
 While Bush occasionally visited the wounded and the families of those killed, he never went to Dover to salute the fallen. And he barred any media coverage of it, trying to airbrush the evidence that the wars he started were not the cakewalks he had promised. He did not attend a single funeral. It reflected an emotional and spiritual smallness typical of his administration, like Donald Rumsfeld signing letters to families of dead troops with an autopen and Paul Wolfowitz understating the number of war dead.
 Dona Griffin of Terre Haute, Ind., the mother of Army Sgt. Dale Griffin, who was among those Obama saluted, appreciated the president's presence.
 ''Unless we can see the images and look into the eyes and the faces of those that are sacrificing, we forget,'' she said on ''Good Morning America.'' 
 As Obama conducts his White House seminar on war, Dick Cheney accuses him of dithering. He and W. not only didn't dither before Iraq, they never bothered to ask ''Whither?'' Debate and due diligence were for sissies. Far more fun playing Jove, heedlessly throwing thunderbolts.
 President Obama bore witness just as he is deciding whether to accede to Gen. Stanley McChrystal's request for up to 80,000 more troops in Afghanistan. 
 He should keep in mind Cyrus Vance's warning before President Carter decided to send a Delta team to rescue the Iranian hostages (an ill-fated decision that provoked Vance's resignation as secretary of state). ''Generals will rarely tell you they can't do something,'' he said. ''This is a complex damn operation, and I haven't forgotten the old saying from my Pentagon days that in the military, anything that can go wrong will go wrong.'' 
 Barack Obama, the wunderkind who came out of nowhere to win the presidency, was supposed to push America out of the ditch and into a glittering future. But modernity is elusive when you're in a time machine to the 14th century called Afghanistan. The tableau of Obama at Dover evoked the last line of ''The Great Gatsby:'' ''So we beat on, boats against the current, borne back ceaselessly into the past.''
 As Obama comforted families at a tragic moment, he also had to contemplate a tragic dimension of his own presidency: It's nice to talk about change, but you can't wipe away yesterday.
 Obama wants to be the cosmopolitan president of the world, and social engineer at home to improve the lives of Americans.
 But what he had in mind for renovating American society hinged on spending a lot of money on energy, education, the environment and health care. Instead, he has been trapped in the money pits of a recession and two wars.
 For now, the man who promised revolution will have to settle for managing adversity.
 It is, as Yogi Berra said, ''deja vu all over again.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ARMIES (77%); AIR FORCES (77%); HALLOWEEN (70%); IRAQ WAR (70%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (63%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); DICK CHENEY (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DOVER, DE, USA (90%); TERRE HAUTE, IN, USA (51%) DELAWARE, USA (90%); INDIANA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



44 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: What's On Sunday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (13, 49) PLACE OF EXECUTIONJuliet Stevenson stars as Catherine Heathcote, a television journalist and single mother bent on solving the 1963 disappearance of a 13-year-old girl whose body was never found -- despite a murder conviction in the case. In flashbacks more than 40 years earlier, Lee Ingleby plays George Bennett, a high-level police official whose career took off with the case and who is now the subject of Catherine's latest documentary. Philip Jackson is George as an older man. Greg Wise, above with Ms. Stevenson, plays the girl's arrogant stepfather; Tony Maudsley is George's garrulous sergeant; and Elizabeth Day is Catherine's rebel daughter, who can't stand her mother but is fascinated by her project. 
Then there are the suspects: a schoolmate (Mikey North) who had secretly kept photographs of the victim, and the victim's uncle (Ryan Anthony-Jones), a known sexual offender. But most troubling are the local villagers, who for more than four decades have withheld information. This two-part ''Masterpiece Contemporary'' production is based on a thriller by Val McDermid (''The Wire in the Blood''); David Tennant (''Dr. Who'') is host. Part 2 will be broadcast on Nov. 8 at 9.
 8 A.M. (NBC) MEET THE PRESS Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner discusses the economy, jobs and health care; David Plouffe, President Obama's campaign manager, talks about his new book, ''The Audacity to Win: The Inside Story and Lessons of Barack Obama's Historic Victory.''
10 A.M. (Fox) FOX NEWS SUNDAY WITH CHRIS WALLACERush Limbaugh presents his views on President Obama and health care reform. 
 10 A.M. (ABC) THIS WEEK WITH GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS Mr. Stephanopoulos interviews Valerie Jarrett, a senior adviser to President Obama, about the challenges he is facing and whether he is meeting expectations.
 10:30 A.M. (CBS) FACE THE NATIONDavid Axelrod, a White House senior adviser, and Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, discuss the war in Afghanistan, health care and the economy. 
 11 A.M. (TV One) WASHINGTON WATCH WITH ROLAND MARTIN Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius talks about the swine flu and its impact on black Americans.
 4 P.M. (NBC) KRISTI YAMAGUCHI & FRIENDS Ms. Yamaguchi, Michael Weiss, Kurt Browning, Ekaterina Gordeeva, Steven Cousins, Yuka Sato and others skate to the strains of the Backstreet Boys at the US Airways Center in Phoenix.
 8 P.M. (Fox) MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL: WORLD SERIES The New York Yankees face off in Game 4 against the Philadelphia Phillies at Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia.
 8 P.M. (13, 49) BORN WILD: THE FIRST DAYS OF LIFE ''Nature'' follows births in several species -- from Amaurobius spider and Surinam toad to Caiman crocodile -- and examines their parents' strategies for keeping the youngsters alive.
 10 P.M. (AMC) MAD MEN Don (Jon Hamm, right) is impressed by a candidate. Peggy (Elisabeth Moss) questions her taste in men. And Pete (Vincent Kartheiser) faces a career choice.
 10 P.M. (MTV) STYL'D Five junior assistants fetch coffee, make telephone calls and declutter clothes racks -- while stabbing one another in the back -- for three celebrity stylists: Jen Rade, who has dressed Pink and Amy Winehouse; Eric Archibald, who has groomed Puffy and Usher; and Julie Weiss, who counts Britney Spears and Eva Longoria among her clients. The spoils are a job with the Margaret Maldonado Agency. The drama begins as Kim Kardashian is styled for the Grammy Awards.
 10 P.M. (Showtime) CALIFORNICATION Karen (Natascha McElhone) visits Los Angeles on a mission to reunite her family and sweep them back to New York, which pleases Hank (David Duchovny) but sends Becca (Madeleine Martin) into a spiral over being parted from her new BFF (Ellen Woglom). But then Karen glimpses Hank's comely young students. Meanwhile, Rick Springfield (playing himself) makes eyes at Charlie's girl, Marcy (Pamela Adlon).
 10 P.M. (VH1) SEX REHAB WITH DR. DREW Dr. Drew Pinsky and a team of sexual-addiction experts try to curb the lust of eight minor celebrities. Those paying penance are Jennifer Ketcham, a porn actress, and Kendra Jade Rossi, a former one; the surfer James Lovett; Nicole Narain, a Playboy Playmate; Kari Ann Peniche, a onetime beauty queen; Duncan Roy, a writer and director; Amber Smith, who appeared on Season 2 of ''Celebrity Rehab With Dr. Drew''; and the drummer Phil Varone. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); BASEBALL (89%); WRITERS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); NETWORK TELEVISION (86%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (78%); SINGLE PARENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); MURDER (72%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (72%); SEX OFFENSES (72%); POLICE FORCES (71%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (70%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); H1N1 INFLUENZA (64%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (64%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (62%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (61%); INFLUENZA (60%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (60%); STEPPARENTS (55%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (85%); KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (50%); JOE LIEBERMAN (50%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (74%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%); ARIZONA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (78%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009



45 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Supply-Side Ideas, Turned Upside Down

BYLINE: By N. GREGORY MANKIW. 
N. Gregory Mankiw is a professor of economics at Harvard. He was an adviser to President George W. Bush.

 BODY:
BARACK OBAMA is, in many ways, the left's answer to Ronald Reagan.
 Both came to office as charismatic and self-confident leaders, elected in times of economic crisis and determined to move the economy in a new direction. What is less obvious, however, is that the signature domestic issue in President Obama's first year in office -- health care reform -- is shaping up to be the antithesis of President Reagan's supply-side economics.
 The starting point for Ronald Reagan was the idea that people respond to incentives. The incentives that he most worried about were those provided by the tax system. According to his budget director, David A. Stockman, Mr. Reagan would regale the staff with stories of how he, as an actor, used to alter his work schedule in response to the tax code. 
 ''You could only make four pictures, and then you were in the top bracket,'' Mr. Reagan would say. ''So we all quit working after four pictures and went off to the country.''
 The key economic concept here is the marginal tax rate, which measures the percentage of a family's incremental income to which the government lays claim. During Mr. Reagan's time in office, the top marginal tax rate on earned income fell to 28 percent from 50 percent.
 The verdict on supply-side economics is mixed. The most striking claim associated with the theory -- that cuts in marginal rates could generate so much extra work effort that tax revenue would rise -- is unlikely to apply except in extreme cases. But substantial evidence supports the more modest proposition that high marginal tax rates discourage people from working to their full potential. Mr. Reagan's behavior as a movie actor is a case in point.
 President Obama has said he wants to raise marginal tax rates on high-income taxpayers. Yet under his policies, the largest increases in marginal tax rates may well apply not to the rich but to millions of middle-class families. These increases would not show up explicitly in the tax code but, rather, implicitly as part of health care reform.
 The bill that recently came out of the Senate Finance Committee illustrates the problem. Under the proposed legislation, Americans would have the opportunity to buy health insurance through government-run exchanges. Depending on a family's income, premiums and cost-sharing expenses, like co-payments and deductibles, would be subsidized to make health care more affordable.
 A family of four with an income, say, of $54,000 would pay $9,900 for health care. That covers only about half the actual cost. Uncle Sam would pick up the rest.
 Now suppose that the same family earns an additional $12,000 by, for example, having the primary earner work overtime or sending a secondary worker into the labor force. In that case, the federal subsidy shrinks, so the family's cost of health care rises to $12,700.
 In other words, $2,800 of the $12,000 of extra income, or 23 percent, would be effectively taxed away by the government's new health care system.
 That implicit marginal tax rate of 23 percent is a significant disincentive. And it comes on top of the explicit marginal tax rate the family already faces from income and payroll taxes. Altogether, many families would face marginal rates at or above the 50 percent level that animated the Reagan supply-side revolution.
 One might hope that such a large climb in marginal rates is a bug in the Senate Finance bill, one that could be fixed before the legislation became law. But there is no simple fix. Higher marginal tax rates are an integral part of the Obama health plan.
 Here's why: 
 Health reformers start with the problem that some people are expensive to insure, because of pre-existing health conditions. Their solution is to require insurers to sell insurance to everyone (a policy called guaranteed issue) at the same price (called community rating).
 This solution, however, causes another problem. For healthy people, insurance is now a bad bet. A person without significant medical needs has an incentive to wait -- to buy insurance later if and when he gets sick, a decision that raises the cost of insurance for everyone else. This problem, according to the reformers, calls for another solution: a mandate requiring people to buy health insurance.
 But this mandate leads to yet another problem. Requiring an expensive purchase like health insurance can be onerous for low-income families. So the health reformers offer subsidies.
 Which brings us back to marginal tax rates. If large health insurance subsidies were offered to all Americans, regardless of income, the program's cost would be exorbitant, requiring substantial increases in explicit taxes. So, instead, the subsidies are phased out as income rises. As a result, we get implicit marginal rates like those in the Senate Finance bill.
 NONE of this necessarily means that health reform is not worth doing. President Obama's push for reform is premised on the belief that access to good health care should be a right of all Americans -- a proposition better judged by political philosophers than economists. 
 But we should not forget the cost of translating that noble aspiration into practical policy. As a matter of economic logic, President Obama's goal of universal health insurance cannot help but undermine former President Reagan's goal of lower marginal tax rates. Future generations of Americans may find health insurance more affordable, but they will also find hard work less financially rewarding. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); FAMILY (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (71%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (71%); LEGISLATION (71%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (68%); EVIDENCE (65%); OVERTIME (63%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (94%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



46 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: In Mayoral Race, a Blitz of Truth-Stretching Ads

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
As the New York City mayor's race enters its final, combative stretch, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and his opponent, Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr., have unleashed a flood of advertisements that contain distorted, misleading and, in some cases, outright false claims about everything from the creation of jobs to plans for tax increases. 
 With many New Yorkers just beginning to tune in to what has been a late-blooming campaign, the truth-stretching -- in TV commercials, Web advertisements and mailed brochures -- could be the primary exposure they have to the two candidates. 
 Both the mayor and the comptroller have misrepresented each other's records, but Mr. Bloomberg has taken the biggest liberties. In ads that follow Web users as they move from site to site, the mayor claims that Mr. Thompson ''never created a single job'' (false) and ''fought reform'' at the Board of Education (misleading).
 The mayor implies, in one commercial, that Mr. Thompson plans to raise income taxes across the board, and he has even bankrolled a Web site, ThompsonTaxHike.com, dedicated to the subject. But Mr. Thompson has not proposed such a tax increase in his campaign; instead, he favors a higher income tax for the rich.
 Mr. Thompson, in his mailings, says that sales taxes have ''skyrocketed in Mike Bloomberg's New York.'' In reality, the mayor raised the city's sales tax by half a percentage point this year, a relatively modest increase. In TV ads, Mr. Thompson calls the mayor ''Republican Mike Bloomberg,'' even though Mr. Bloomberg switched his party registration from Republican to independent two years ago. 
 The mischaracterizations in the mayor's advertising are especially potent because of their ubiquity: With a campaign budget of $100 million, his commercials have run at least 25,000 times, meaning that many voters have seen each about 10 times. 
 In the final week of the campaign alone, Mr. Bloomberg is on track to spend more than $3 million on TV and radio commercials, the equivalent of what Mr. Thompson has spent on TV and radio ads over the entire campaign. 
 ''It's unfortunate that it's sunk to this level,'' said Steven A. Cohen, a professor of public affairs at Columbia University. ''It didn't have to.'' He called the last-minute advertising blitz ''intensely nasty.'' 
 In interviews, representatives from both political operations stood by their ads, and groused about the inaccuracies in the campaign materials of their opponent. ''Most campaigns stay within certain boundaries,'' said Doc Sweitzer, who has overseen advertising for the Thompson campaign. ''The Bloomberg folks basically disregarded that completely.''
 Howard Wolfson, a spokesman for the Bloomberg campaign, said that ''instead of making any kind of positive case for himself in his ads, Mr. Thompson has chosen to attack the mayor and distort his record.''
 It may be a distant memory now, but the mayoral race began in April with series of positive advertisements extolling the mayor's record (on education and crime) and pledging progress in a third term (by saving thousands of jobs and units of housing for people of lesser means). 
 But Mr. Bloomberg's campaign, drawing on his $16 billion fortune, quickly took a turn. It churned out ominous mailings, and later, commercials, that questioned Mr. Thompson's fitness to be mayor. Mr. Thompson, who has struggled to raise money one donor at a time, waited until the last few weeks of the race to begin advertising. He almost immediately began attacking the mayor, for raising taxes and rewriting term limits. 
 He has generally avoided blatant factual errors, but many of his broad claims are overly simplistic, and several of them mischaracterize the mayor's record. 
 His contention, in TV ads, that the mayor ''has looked out for those at the top'' ignores several of the administration's major achievements. The mayor opened the city's Center for Economic Opportunity, a laboratory for innovative approaches to fighting poverty; created a child care tax credit that has given $30 million to low-income families; and built four financial counseling centers that advise New Yorkers on money management. 
 Mailings and TV ads from the mayor assert that Mr. Thompson's campaign plans for job creation and smaller class sizes would cost the city at least $4 billion. But that figure, which voters could assume is an annual tally, covers a four-year period, a fact the campaign does not disclose in its ads. Mr. Thompson's aides estimate the plan would cost about $1.1 billion a year. 
 The Bloomberg campaign's displays its loosest relationship with the facts online. One Web ad accuses Mr. Thompson of corruption, stating that he ''traded contracts for $650,000 in contributions.'' Mr. Thompson, who oversees New York's pension system, did accept contributions from investments firms that received business from the city. But the donations were legal, and there was no evidence of quid pro quo. 
 Mr. Wolfson said that New Yorkers ''are smart enough to see the causality at work behind $650,000 in donations and millions in city business.''
 The Web ad that claims Mr. Thompson has not created a single job is unsubstantiated: As a deputy borough president of Brooklyn in the 1980s, Mr. Thompson helped secure financing for development projects that generated jobs. 
 The unqualified statement that Mr. Thompson opposed reform at the Board of Education is belied by his support for a sweeping 1996 state law that sidelined troubled local school boards and vested greater authority in the chancellor. 
 Defending the ads, Mr. Wolfson said that Mr. Thompson had never created a private-sector job and that Mr. Thompson opposed legislation that gave control of schools to the mayor. 
 ''It was the major reform that led to the improvement we have seen in the schools under Mike Bloomberg,'' Mr. Wolfson said. ''And he opposed it.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: William C. Thompson Jr.'s fitness to be mayor is questioned in a print advertisement released by the Bloomberg campaign.
 A print ad about Michael R. Bloomberg's record as mayor, part of a series of negative ads released by his opponent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (92%); TAX INCREASES (91%); TAX LAW (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); SALES TAX (89%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (77%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); RADIO ADVERTISING (77%); BUDGETS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); INTERVIEWS (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); STEVEN COHEN (50%); STEVEN A COHEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



47 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: California's Fiscal Health Continues to Deteriorate, Despite Many Deep Cuts

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Just three months after Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger cut, taxed and line-item-vetoed away a two-year budget gap of $26 billion, California faces billions of dollars in new shortfalls, with the problem likely to deepen in the next fiscal year.
 At a recent conference here on the condition of California's fiscal health, the state treasurer, Bill Lockyer, called the budget ''a train wreck.'' And, he added, ''It's going to get worse.'' 
 California finance officials say the state is facing a shortfall of roughly $7 billion for the current fiscal year, which ends on June 30, and several estimates have that gap ballooning to between $10 billion and $20 billion the next fiscal year.
 Like many other states around the country, California is facing continued revenue shortfalls as personal income and corporate taxes falter. But California lawmakers are also facing the implosion of expected cost savings, as lawsuits and other factors have reduced or eliminated savings that were figured into the budget passed in July.
 For instance, the budget called for moving at least $1 billion earmarked for transportation uses into the general fund, a move challenged by transit advocates, who have prevailed in court. Further, the state was recently enjoined from making an $80 million cut to social service programs. Then there is the assumed revenue from the sale of part of the State Compensation Insurance Fund, a move that the state insurance commissioner, Steve Poizner, has filed a lawsuit to block.
 The story is much the same around the country, especially in states hit hard by the foreclosure crisis that had taken particularly desperate -- or unrealistic -- measures to shore up their budgets. 
 Roughly $165 million of Arizona's plan to close a $3 billion shortfall is not materializing. An effort to get $50 million in savings from new antifraud measures did not come to fruition because there were no real measures put in place to ferret out the fraud, and the assumption of $100 million received in upfront payments from private prison companies to operate nine of the state's 10 prisons will almost certainly not come together this fiscal year, lawmakers there say. With other shortfalls, the state is facing a $2 billion deficit in the current year.
 In Colorado, Gov. Bill Ritter recently ordered state employees to take four furlough days in addition to the four the workers already were taking, as revenues there have continued to fall. 
 In California, high unemployment and an overall sluggish economy have led to lower than expected revenues flowing in. The state's combined personal, corporate and sales taxes fell more than $1 billion below projections for the first quarter of the year, according to the state controller, John Chiang. 
 The story was particularly troublesome in September, when revenues fell $810 million below the forecast amount. ''The culprit in September was personal income taxes,'' said H. D. Palmer, a spokesman for the state's Department of Finance. ''The question is whether this is due to changes in tax law or underlying, ongoing trend.''
 Further, many after-the-budget fixes to shore up state programs were short term. For instance, Mr. Schwarzenegger cut $16 million from domestic violence programs in a line-item budget veto that was restored with a last-minute diversion of roughly that amount from an alternative fuel and technology fund, which will not reoccur next year. 
 Meanwhile, a plan to reduce the state parks budget by about $6 million, to $422.5 million, through the closing of 100 parks was staved off with maintenance cuts to parks instead, and state officials say more cuts to that department will almost certainly be in the offing next year. Further, millions of dollars borrowed from education funds will have to be restored at some point, under a state proposition that requires it. 
 More than 22 states have reported revenue shortfalls for the current fiscal year, and are currently assessing whether they will make it through this year without further cuts, and how deep the gaps will be in the next fiscal year. 
 ''If we go back historically,'' said Arturo Perez, the program principal for the Fiscal Affairs Program at the National Conference of State Legislatures, ''the bottom for states has not usually occurred until 12 to 24 months after a recession. In many cases you still have rising unemployment, so you continue to see a reduction in personal income tax revenues at the same time we have the additional burdens of Medicaid, S-Chip and unemployment claims.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); VETO (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LITIGATION (88%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); SALES TAX (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); INSURANCE (73%); COMPANY REVENUES (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); INJUNCTIONS (72%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (71%); CREDIT CRISIS (67%); WORKERS COMPENSATION INSURANCE FUNDS (66%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (62%); PRISON PRIVATIZATION (61%); PRISONS (61%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (50%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (73%); BILL RITTER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



48 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: Corzine Courts Obama Backers In All-Out Push

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI; David M. Halbfinger contributed reporting.

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
In the final hours of this intensely fought campaign, supporters of Gov. Jon S. Corzine are knocking on doors here with a message for people who voted for Barack Obama: Your president needs you.
 In an effort they are calling ''Yes We Can 2.0,'' Corzine campaign officials are devoting millions of dollars and thousands of volunteers to try to bring back to the polls those 442,000 New Jersey residents who had never voted before Mr. Obama's election last November. They are flooding them with phone calls, mail and text messages, hoping to contact each of them at least eight times before Tuesday.
 With the president significantly more popular than Mr. Corzine in New Jersey, the governor has lashed himself to Mr. Obama, and will appear beside him Sunday on the president's third visit to the state to campaign on Mr. Corzine's behalf.
 Whether the first-time Obama voters turn out could make a crucial difference in this race, with most polls showing Mr. Corzine and his Republican opponent, Christopher J. Christie, still running neck and neck two days before the election. 
 The outcome could also help answer a question nagging at Democrats nationally: Can they keep engaging those drawn to the polls by Mr. Obama's charisma and historic campaign, or will last year prove a one-time surge for the party?
 ''If Corzine can activate the Obama surge vote in New Jersey, that would suggest that last year was more than just a flash, that it has staying power,'' said Allan Lichtman, a history professor at American University. ''It will show that Obama's support was about more than just one candidate's charismatic personality, and give him a chance to transform American politics.''
 The governor's race in Virginia is also being closely watched for what it may say about Mr. Obama's ability to excite his supporters to back Democratic candidates. In that race, the Democrat, Creigh Deeds, is trying to draw Mr. Obama's backers with rallies and fliers showcasing him in photographs with the president. 
 But the situation is tricky there; Mr. Obama is not as popular as he is in New Jersey, and Mr. Deeds, who trails the Republican, Bob McDonnell, by double digits in most polls, has distanced himself from some of the president's domestic policies.
 In a news conference Friday, the White House spokesman Robert Gibbs tried to play down the significance of both races, saying he did not believe they ''portend a lot'' about the future. Still, the visits to New Jersey on Sunday and Virginia last week suggest otherwise.
 In New Jersey, of course, Mr. Corzine is not the only candidate trying to connect to the Obama voters. Mr. Christie has sought to claim the Obama mantle for himself, reminding New Jerseyans in TV ads that they voted for change last November and suggesting that he, not Mr. Corzine, represents real change. He is also spending more time in urban areas than other recent Republican candidates. But Mr. Corzine's effort is far more expansive and its outcome more essential to his hopes for a victory Tuesday.
 The first-time voters are described by campaign operatives from both parties as more likely to be African-American, Latino and urban than the overall electorate. But the group also includes younger voters, so in addition to canvassing in places like Newark and Camden, Mr. Corzine's campaign has obtained some voter data and contact information from Mr. Obama's presidential campaign Web site, and is trying to reach them through online appeals and social networking.
 ''In 2005, Jon Corzine didn't even have a Facebook page,'' said Joseph Cryan, the state Democratic chairman. ''But now, with the help of the president's voter lists, we've got people following us on Twitter, and we are reaching out to them in ways we hadn't ever done before.''
 With turnout unlikely to exceed 2.5 million on Tuesday, Corzine officials estimate that if they draw only a quarter of first-time Obama voters to the polls, they could gain the edge they need.
 But even the governor's most ardent supporters acknowledge that selling Mr. Corzine to Obama admirers has not been easy. On the surface, it would be hard to imagine two political figures more different. Mr. Obama is charismatic, eloquent and stylish, while Mr. Corzine is self-effacing, and an often meandering public speaker. And more significant, Mr. Corzine bears the burden of the state's gloomy economy and reputation for corruption. 
 On Friday evening, a dozen Corzine campaign volunteers, some in Obama or Corzine T-shirts, fanned out in East Orange, a mostly African-American working-class suburb of Newark, distributing brochures with the message ''Keep It Going,'' that featured pictures of Mr. Corzine with the president. 
 But some residents were skeptical. Willie Jones, 26, who was washing his clothes at a laundromat nearby, said he felt immense pride in voting for Mr. Obama and helping a fellow African-American reach the White House last year. But he said he had been so disappointed by the political system, he had no intention of voting in the governor's race, adding that he thought Mr. Corzine ''hasn't done a single thing he said he'd do.'' 
 Mr. Jones said that he had not followed the election carefully, but that Mr. Obama's enthusiastic advocacy for the governor did not sway him. ''What's he been drinking?'' Mr. Jones said of the president. 
 Still, there were signs the message may be getting through. Maurice Baldwin, 44, who was getting her hair braided at a salon, said she registered to vote for the first time last year because she wanted to make history by helping elect the first African-American president. 
 ''It's all anyone could talk about for weeks,'' said Ms. Baldwin, of East Orange. ''We were all so excited. We couldn't wait to go to the voting booth.'' 
 Ms. Baldwin said she rarely hears friends or neighbors talk about this year's election. She was leaning toward Mr. Corzine, saying that he had done a reasonable job. When she saw a television commercial last week mentioning that Mr. Obama had endorsed the governor, that closed the deal.
 ''If President Obama thinks he's doing a good job, then that's like a stamp of approval for me,'' she said. 
 Jason O'Donnell, the Corzine campaign's field director in Hudson County, acknowledged the challenges of transferring support for Mr. Obama to the governor.
 ''Look, there's only one Barack Obama,'' Mr. O'Donnell said, as he led a dozen campaign workers who were handing out leaflets during the morning rush at the Hoboken train station on Friday. ''Jon Corzine may not be as dramatic, but he'll be a great partner for the president.''
 Even when the president, during a rally at Fairleigh Dickinson University last month, asked a crowd of 3,000 to rekindle the energy of last year for Mr. Corzine's campaign, the roars of approval and shouts of ''I love you, Obama!'' faded into a faint murmur.
 In Mr. Christie's view, the voters are too savvy to fall for this pitch. He has reminded them that Mr. Obama will not be running the state, regardless of who wins. 
 At the same time, however, he has avoided criticizing the president, and spoke warmly about him when he appeared before the Black Ministers Council earlier this year. He has also emphasized that he finds common ground with Mr. Obama on education issues, especially on the question of merit pay for teachers.
 His campaign has released advertisements featuring a multicultural assortment of voters who say they voted for Mr. Obama but have grown so disappointed in Mr. Corzine that they are voting for Mr. Christie. ''So do you want to change Trenton?'' Mr. Christie asks in the ad.
 ''Start by changing governors,'' responds a woman who identifies herself as an Obama voter.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Supporters of Gov. Jon S. Corzine in Hoboken, N.J. Thousands of volunteers have been deployed in the campaign's last days.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JUAN ARREDONDO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A34) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); TEXT MESSAGING (73%); HISTORY (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (93%); BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



49 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MT; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; HOLIDAY MOVIES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 2219 words

HEADLINE: Lovers, Rodents and Vampires (Again)

BYLINE: By DAVE KEHR

 BODY:
All dates are subject to change. 
 NOVEMBER
 Monday
 YOU CANNOT START WITHOUT ME Allan Miller, the reigning maestro of the music documentary (''The Turandot Project''), looks at a year in the life of the Russian conductor Valery Gergiev as he commutes from his home base at the Mariinsky Theater in St. Petersburg to assignments in London and New York. 
 Wednesday
 ACT OF GOD The filmmaker Jennifer Baichwal (''Manufactured Landscapes'') interviews a wide range of individuals who experienced being struck by lightning, asking how it changed their lives. 
 LA DANSE: THE PARIS OPERA BALLET For his 38th film, the documentary filmmaker Frederick Wiseman takes a leisurely 158-minute look behind the scenes at the Paris Opera Ballet. Among the performers who appear are Nicolas Le Riche, Marie-Agnes Gillot and Agnes Letestu.
 Friday
 THE BOX An ethical dilemma for a high school teacher (Cameron Diaz) and her husband (James Marsden), a NASA engineer: they can have $1 million in exchange for causing the death of someone they don't know. With Frank Langella; Richard Kelly (''Donnie Darko'') directs from a 1970 short story, ''Button, Button,'' by Richard Matheson.
 COLLAPSE The new documentary by Chris Smith (''American Job'') is a portrait of the whistle-blowing financial journalist Michael Ruppert, the author of ''Crossing the Rubicon: The Decline of the American Empire at the End of the Age of Oil.''
 DISNEY'S A CHRISTMAS CAROL Following ''The Polar Express'' (2004) and ''Beowulf'' (2007), the director-writer Robert Zemeckis continues his work in 3-D animation, using the performance capture process to turn live actors into cartoon figures. In this adaptation of the Dickens story, Jim Carrey plays Scrooge at three stages of his life, as well as the three ghosts who come to visit him on Christmas Eve. Other captured cast members include Gary Oldman, Cary Elwes, Colin Firth, Bob Hoskins and Robin Wright Penn. 
 THE FOURTH KINDSteven Spielberg told us about close encounters of the kinds one through three; Olatunde Osunsanmi's film tells us about the fourth, which involves alien abduction. Milla Jovovich plays the Alaskan psychotherapist who figures out what's going on. With Elias Koteas and Will Patton. 
 THE MEN WHO STARE AT GOATS With the unreliable aid of an inside informant (George Clooney), a reporter (Ewan McGregor) uncovers a secret unit of the United States military assigned to discovering battlefield uses for psychic powers. Grant Heslov directs from Jon Ronson's nonfiction book; with Jeff Bridges and Kevin Spacey.
 PRECIOUS: BASED ON THE NOVEL 'PUSH' BY SAPPHIRE A luckless, pregnant 16-year-old (Gabourey Sidibe), living in Harlem with her abusive mother (Mo'Nique), finds a chance to escape her miserable circumstances through a literacy workshop led by a sympathetic teacher (Paula Patton). Lee Daniels's film was the audience award winner at the 2009 Sundance Film Festival. With Mariah Carey. 
 SPLINTERHEADS Things start looking up for a marginally employed slacker (Thomas Middleditch) when he gets conned by a carnival girl named Galaxy (Rachael Taylor). Brant Sersen wrote and directed; with Lea Thompson, Christopher McDonald and Dean Winters. 
 THAT EVENING SUN Hal Holbrook stars as an elderly Tennessee farmer who escapes from a nursing home and returns to his old spread, only to find that his son has leased the property to his worst enemy. Scott Teems directed; with Ray McKinnon, Walton Goggins and Mia Wasikowska.
 TURNING GREEN When his mother dies, an American teenager (Donal Gallery) is sent to live with his aunts in the Ireland of the late 1970s. Bringing an entrepreneurial spirit with him, he recognizes an unfilled local demand for pornography and sets out to fill it. Michael Aimette and John G. Hofmann wrote and directed; with Timothy Hutton and Colm Meaney.
 Nov. 11
 FOUR SEASONS LODGE A vacation camp for Holocaust survivors enters what may be its final year of operation in a documentary directed by Andrew Jacobs.
 Nov. 13
 DARE Three teenagers -- Emmy Rossum, Ashley Springer and Zach Gilford -- spend their senior year looking for ways to shake up their lives before adulthood sets in. With Ana Gasteyer, Sandra Bernhard and Alan Cumming; Adam Salky directed.
 THE END OF POVERTY? How the global economic system continues to keep much of the world in poverty is explored in a documentary by the French director and producer Philippe Diaz and financed by the Robert Schalkenbach Foundation.
 FANTASTIC MR. FOXWes Anderson directs a stop-motion animated version of a Roald Dahl children's book about a resourceful fox (with the voice of George Clooney) who challenges three evil farmers. With the talents of Meryl Streep, Bill Murray, Jason Schwartzman, Owen Wilson, Willem Dafoe, Brian Cox, Adrien Brody and Michael Gambon; Mr. Anderson wrote the screenplay with Noah Baumbach. 
 THE HAND OF FATIMA A documentary on Robert Palmer, the chief pop music critic of The New York Times from 1981 to 1988, directed by his daughter, Augusta Palmer.
 THE MESSENGER Returning from a tour of duty in Iraq, a United States Army officer (Ben Foster) is assigned to the service that notifies families of the death of a loved one. Among his first assignments is a young woman (Samantha Morton) who must be told that her husband has been killed. Oren Moverman directed; with Woody Harrelson and Jena Malone. 
 OH MY GOD? The filmmaker Peter Rodger travels the world exploring notions of the divine as embedded in various cultures. With appearances by Hugh Jackman, Ringo Starr, Seal, Bob Geldof, Princess Michael of Kent and David Copperfield. 
 PIRATE RADIO Britain's rom-com specialist Richard Curtis (''Love Actually'' and the screenplay for ''Four Weddings and a Funeral'') returns with a comedy set in the heady days of the 1960s when offshore pirate broadcasts supplied much of the rock music in England. With Bill Nighy, Philip Seymour Hoffman, Rhys Ifans and Kenneth Branagh.
 TEN9EIGHT How the nonprofit Network for Teaching Entrepreneurship helps keep kids in school by sponsoring an annual competition for creating business plans. Mary Mazzio wrote and directed this documentary.
 2012 Another digital apocalypse presented by the director Roland Emmerich (''Independence Day,''''The Day After Tomorrow''). The cast includes John Cusack, Amanda Peet, Danny Glover, Thandie Newton, Oliver Platt, Chiwetel Ejiofor and Woody Harrelson. 
 UNCERTAINTY Two movies in one, from the veteran independent filmmakers Scott McGehee and David Siegel (''Suture''). The results of a coin flip send a young Brooklyn couple (Joseph Gordon-Levitt and Lynn Collins) into either a gangster thriller or a domestic drama.
 WILLIAM KUNSTLER: DISTURBING THE UNIVERSE A documentary about the civil rights lawyer whose clients included Lenny Bruce, Stokely Carmichael, Jack Ruby and the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Sarah Kunstler and Emily Kunstler, Kunstler's daughters, directed.
 WOMEN IN TROUBLE The writer-director Sebastian Gutierrez juggles 10 characters, including Carla Gugino as a pornographic film star and Josh Brolin as a British rocker, in an ensemble comedy. 
 Nov. 18
 THE SUN Following films on Hitler (''Moloch'') and Lenin (''Taurus''), the Russian director Alexander Sokurov offers an impressionistic portrait of Japan's wartime emperor, Hirohito (Issey Ogata).
 Nov. 20
 THE BAD LIEUTENANT: PORT OF CALL NEW ORLEANSWerner Herzog directed this remake of Abel Ferrara's 1992 film, with the action transposed to post-Katrina New Orleans and Harvey Keitel's drug-addicted cop now played by Nicolas Cage. Eva Mendes provides the love interest as a prostitute. With Val Kilmer, Jennifer Coolidge, Fairuza Balk, Brad Dourif and Shawn Hatosy.
 THE BLIND SIDE Quinton Aaron plays the N.F.L. star Michael Oher in a biographical film based on the book by Michael Lewis. With Sandra Bullock and Tim McGraw as Mr. Oher's adoptive parents; John Lee Hancock directed.
 BROKEN EMBRACES A tragic love story recounted in the flashback style of film noir; the central figure is a blind screenwriter (Lluis Homar) who once loved a call girl (Penelope Cruz). Pedro Almodovar wrote and directed. 
 DEFAMATION The Israeli filmmaker Yoav Shamir investigates the current state of anti-Semitism in a documentary said to be in the Michael Moore tradition.
 FIX When his brother needs to raise $5,000 for rehab or face returning to prison, a documentary filmmaker (Tao Ruspoli) and his partner (Olivia Wilde) drive around Los Angeles looking for the cash. Mr. Ruspoli directed; with Shawn Andrews and Megalyn Echikunwoke.
 GIGANTE From Uruguay, a comedy about a supermarket security guard who becomes romantically obsessed with a cleaning woman, following her first on the store's surveillance cameras, then out in the world. With Horacio Camandule and Leonor Svarcas; Adrian Biniez wrote and directed.
 MAMMOTH The pressures of life lived on a global level threaten to tear apart the marriage of a successful New York couple, played by Gael Garcia Bernal and Michelle Williams. Lukas Moodysson (''A Hole in My Heart'') directed this Swedish-Danish-German co-production. 
 THE MISSING PERSON Deeply affected by the events of 9/11, a private detective (Michael Shannon) goes in search of a man who once worked at the World Trade Center. Noah Buschel directed this neo-noir; with Frank Wood, Amy Ryan and Margaret Colin.
 MY DEAR ENEMY From South Korea, a comedy about a young woman determined to recover the money she lent to an irresponsible ex-boyfriend. Lee Yoon-ki (''This Charming Girl'') directed.
 PLANET 51 An astronaut arrives on a distant planet and finds it populated by little green people who seem an awful lot like the Americans of 1951. Jorge Blanco directed this computer animated comedy; with the voices of Dwayne Johnson, Jessica Biel, Justin Long, Seann William Scott and John Cleese. PYAAR IMPOSSIBLE A socially awkward student (Uday Chopra, who also wrote and produced) falls in love with a beautiful woman (Priyanka Chopra) in this Bollywood romantic comedy directed by Jugal Hansraj.
 RED CLIFF It's the year 208, and the chancellor of the Eastern Han Dynasty (Zhang Fengyi) embarks on a campaign to rid the empire of two bothersome southern warlords, Sun Quan (Chang Chen) and Liu Bei (You Yong). John Woo's historical epic, said to be the most expensive movie ever made in China, was released in two feature-length parts in Asia; for export, it's been edited into one 148-minute film. With Tony Leung Chiu-Wai and Takeshi Kaneshiro.
 THE TWILIGHT SAGA: NEW MOON The second installment in Stephenie Meyer's teenage vampire romance introduces werewolves to the mix, while Bella Swan (Kristen Stewart), now a high school senior, pines for her vanished vampire boyfriend, Edward Cullen (Robert Pattinson). Chris Weitz (''The Golden Compass'') directed from a screenplay by Melissa Rosenberg. 
 UNTIL THE LIGHT TAKES US The Norwegian ''black metal'' underground music scene of the 1990s, which included murders and church burnings, as documented by Audrey Ewell and Aaron Aites.
 Nov. 25
 ME AND ORSON WELLES A young actor (Zac Efron) grows up fast when he lands a role in Orson Welles's 1937 production of ''Julius Caesar.'' With Ben Chaplin, Claire Danes, Zoe Kazan, Eddie Marsan and Christian McKay as Welles; Richard Linklater directed. 
 NINJA ASSASSIN Raised from childhood to be a ruthless killer by the secret Ozunu Clan, Raizo (the Korean pop star Rain) finds his loyalties shifting when he meets a beautiful European secret agent (Naomie Harris). James McTeigue (''V for Vendetta'') directed this effects-heavy action film, produced by Joel Silver and the Wachowski brothers. 
 OLD DOGS A divorced executive (Robin Williams) and his bachelor colleague (John Travolta) find themselves babysitting for 6-year-old twins. Walt Becker (''Wild Hogs'') directed; with Kelly Preston, Seth Green, Lori Loughlin and Matt Dillon.
 THE PRINCESS AND THE FROG The Walt Disney Animation Studios return to a classical, hand-drawn style for this musical romance (with songs by Randy Newman) set in the bayous of Louisiana. Anika Noni Rose lends her voice to the lead character, a beautiful girl who kisses a frog (Bruno Campos) with unexpected results. With the vocal talents of John Goodman, Keith David, Jim Cummings and Jenifer Lewis; directed by Ron Clements and John Musker of ''The Little Mermaid.''
 THE ROAD Another big chunk of Cormac McCarthy served up for awards season: John Hillcoat directed this allegorical tale of a father (Viggo Mortenson) and son (Kodi Smit-McPhee) making their way across a country scorched by a mysterious disaster. With Charlize Theron, Robert Duvall and Guy Pearce. 
 Nov. 27
 HOME Isabelle Huppert and Olivier Gourmet enjoy the quiet life near an unused highway somewhere in Europe; all that changes when the route is reopened and a torrent of automobiles descends on the luckless couple. Ursula Meier directed this Swiss production.
 THE PRIVATE LIVES OF PIPPA LEERebecca Miller wrote and directed this adaptation of her own novel about a middle-aged woman (Robin Wright Penn) who finds her happy life as the wife of a much-older publisher (Alan Arkin) threatened when he decides to move to a Connecticut retirement community. Mike Binder, Keanu Reeves and Winona Ryder star.
 All dates are subject to change. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Left, Kate Hudson (center) in the musical ''Nine,'' directed by Rob Marshall
below, Robert Pattinson and Kristen Stewart in the teenage vampire movie ''The Twilight Saga: New Moon,'' and Gabourey Sidibe (at left) and Mo'Nique in ''Precious: Based on the Novel 'Push' by Sapphire.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID JAMES/WEINSTEIN COMPANY)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY KIMBERLEY FRENCH/SUMMIT ENTERTAINMENT)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY LIONSGATE)
Below, a scene from ''Red Cliff,'' John Woo's historical epic set in China in the year 208.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MAGNOLIA PICTURES)(pg. MT12)
 John Cusack and Lily Morgan in Roland Emmerich's ''2012.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE LEDERER/COLUMBIA PICTURES)(pg. MT22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS (91%); MUSIC (90%); FILM (89%); WRITERS (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (87%); MOVIE FILMING (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); ANIMATION (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); DANCE COMPANIES (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); BALLET (75%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (73%); JOURNALISM (71%); ETHICS (68%); CHRISTMAS (64%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (61%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (58%); THEATER (57%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (53%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (54%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (54%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (54%)

PERSON: COLIN FIRTH (79%); ROBERT PATTINSON (79%); KRISTEN STEWART (79%); JIM CARREY (74%); MILLA JOVOVICH (54%); GEORGE CLOONEY (54%); CAMERON DIAZ (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); FRANCE (88%); CHINA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



50 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: More Poetry, Please

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
More and more lately, I find people asking me: What do you think President Obama really believes about this or that issue? I find that odd. How is it that a president who has taken on so many big issues, with very specific policies -- and has even been awarded a Nobel Prize for all the hopes he has kindled -- still has so many people asking what he really believes? 
 I don't think that President Obama has a communications problem, per se. He has given many speeches and interviews broadly explaining his policies and justifying their necessity. Rather, he has a ''narrative'' problem. 
 He has not tied all his programs into a single narrative that shows the links between his health care, banking, economic, climate, energy, education and foreign policies. Such a narrative would enable each issue and each constituency to reinforce the other and evoke the kind of popular excitement that got him elected.
 Without it, though, the president's eloquence, his unique ability to inspire people to get out of their seats and work for him, has been muted or lost in a thicket of technocratic details. His daring but discrete policies are starting to feel like a work plan that we have to slog through, and endlessly compromise over, just to finish for finishing's sake -- not because they are all building blocks of a great national project. 
 What is that project? What is that narrative? Quite simply it is nation-building at home. It is nation-building in America. 
 I've always believed that Mr. Obama was elected because a majority of Americans fear that we're becoming a declining great power. Everything from our schools to our energy and transportation systems are falling apart and in need of reinvention and reinvigoration. And what people want most from Washington today is nation-building at home.
 Many people, including conservatives, voted for Barack Obama because in their hearts they felt he could pull us all together for that project better than any other candidate. Many are what I'd call ''Warren Buffett centrists.'' They are not billionaires, but they are people who believe in Mr. Buffett's saying that whatever he achieved in life was due primarily to the fact that he was born in this country -- America -- at this time, with all of its advantages and opportunities. 
 I believe that. And I believe that without a strong America -- which, at its best, can deliver more goods and goodness to its own citizens and to the world than any other nation -- our kids and many others around the world will not have those opportunities. 
 I am convinced that this kind of nation-building at home is exactly what Mr. Obama is trying to deliver, and should be his unifying call: We need universal health care because it would strengthen our social fabric and enable our businesses to better compete globally. We need to upgrade our schools because no child in 21st-century America should be left behind and because we cannot compete for the best new jobs without doing so. We need a greener economy, not just to mitigate climate change, but because a world growing from 6.7 billion people to 9.2 billion by 2050 is going to demand more and more clean energy and water, and the country that develops the most clean technologies is going to have the most energy security, national security, economic security, innovative companies and global respect.
 But to deliver this agenda requires a motivated public and a spirit of shared sacrifice. That's where narrative becomes vital. People have to have a gut feel for why this nation-building project, with all its varied strands, is so important -- why it's worth the sacrifice. One of the reasons that independents and conservatives who voted for Mr. Obama have been so easily swayed against him by Fox News and people labeling him a ''socialist'' is because he has not given voice to the truly patriotic nation-building endeavor in which he is engaged. 
 ''Obama's election marked a shift -- from a politics that celebrated privatized concerns to a politics that recognized the need for effective government and larger public purposes. Across the political spectrum, people understood that national renewal requires big ambition, and a better kind of politics,'' said the Harvard political theorist Michael Sandel, author of the new best seller -- ''Justice: What's the Right Thing to Do?'' -- that calls for elevating our public discourse. 
 But to deliver on that promise, Sandel added, Obama needs to carry the civic idealism of his campaign into his presidency. He needs a narrative that will get the same voters who elected him to push through his ambitious agenda -- against all the forces of inertia and private greed. 
 ''You can't get nation-building without shared sacrifice,'' said Sandel, ''and you cannot inspire shared sacrifice without a narrative that appeals to the common good -- a narrative that challenges us to be citizens engaged in a common endeavor, not just consumers seeking the best deal for ourselves. Obama needs to energize the prose of his presidency by recapturing the poetry of his campaign.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); POETRY (76%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); AWARDS & PRIZES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



51 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: An Old Master, Back in Fashion

BYLINE: By DEVIN LEONARD

 BODY:
BY the time he died in 1946, the economist John Maynard Keynes had become that rarest of creatures in his profession: a celebrity. The most powerful leaders in the free world subscribed to his theory that markets were driven by emotions and that in moments of crisis, governments could calm investors by doling out stimulus money.
 When Keynes and his wife, Lydia, arrived in New York aboard the Queen Mary in 1943, they were mobbed by photographers. Even the paparazzi seemed to understand that his prescription had helped countries on both sides of the Atlantic recover from the Depression. 
 Three decades later, though, the same ideas were consigned to the dustbin when world leaders swooned over Milton Friedman and his disciples at the University of Chicago. They preached that markets were inherently self-regulating and that government intervention would only muck things up. Their laissez-faire views were more suitable for the rise of Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher.
 Now the old master is once again in vogue. After the financial markets blew up last year, governments around the world swiftly enacted Keynesian stimulus packages. Almost as rapidly, three longtime Keynes chroniclers have produced books that try to explain who he was and what he believed. 
 The British historian Peter Clarke has written the liveliest of the three, called ''Keynes: The Rise, Fall, and Return of the 20th Century's Most Influential Economist'' (Bloomsbury Press, 211 pages). Mr. Clarke, a former history professor at Cambridge and the author of two previous books about his subject, serves up a gossipy account of Keynes's personal life.
 There is rich material here. Even if Keynes had not altered the course of economic thinking with his path-breaking ''General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money'' in 1936, he would still be remembered for the company he kept. He belonged to the Bloomsbury group, the London literary set whose members included Virginia Woolf and E. M. Forster. 
 Keynes shared their passion for dazzling prose and their predilection for sexual experimentation. Mr. Clarke writes that Keynes had numerous dalliances with other men and kept a list of his many conquests. Later, however, he married the glamorous Russian ballerina Lydia Lopokova. 
 Mr. Clarke says their union was happy.
 ''Its manifest success owed much to Lydia's uninhibited sensuality, not least in removing Maynard's feelings of sexual insecurity,'' Mr. Clarke explains. ''Their failure of have children was not for want of trying.''
 The historian's prose sparkles, and his book is the place to begin if you want to understand the economist's personality and charisma. But Mr. Clarke's focus on Keynes the man means that his account of Keynes the economist suffers. You finish this slim volume without knowing what he stood for and why he remains so significant.
 Paul Davidson, an economics professor at the University of Tennessee and editor of the Journal of Post Keynesian Economics, does a better job of this in ''The Keynes Solution: The Path to Global Economic Prosperity'' (Palgrave Macmillan, 196 pages). A true believer, Mr. Davidson lays out Keynesianism in easy-to-understand language and makes a strong case that it is just as relevant today.
 There are some doubters who fear that Keynesian spending is dangerous because it produces unbalanced budgets. Mr. Davidson responds that deficits in times of crisis lead to prosperity when the economy recovers. 
 ''As a child of the Depression and a young teenager during World War II, I have never felt burdened by huge government deficits,'' he writes. ''The great generation who were adults during those years left their children a legacy of abundance and prosperity.'' 
 Mr. Davidson argues that the Chicago gang's belief that investors can calculate future risk by using prophetic mathematic models is more frightening. Who can argue with that after last year's debacle?
 The most tantalizing part of the ''The Keynes Solution,'' however, is the appendix, entitled ''Why Keynes's Ideas Were Never Taught in American Universities.'' Mr. Davidson writes about how the work of one of his fellow Keynesians was attacked by William F. Buckley Jr. in the 1950s and how other peers watered down Keynes's teachings to avoid similar controversy.
 Robert Skidelsky, Keynes's pre-eminent biographer, has produced the most satisfying post-crash analysis of the economist in ''Keynes: The Return of the Master'' (PublicAffairs, 220 pages).
 An emeritus professor of political economics at the University of Warwick in England, Mr. Skidelsky is scornful of economists who, he believes, practice a ''fundamentally regressive discipline.'' He argues that Keynes was different because he was a moralist who believed the field could be used to improved people lives.
 What's more, the biographer says Keynes was hardly the quasi-socialist that right-wing critics would have us believe even today.
 The author says that Keynes would have been troubled by the United States' longstanding policy of running deficits even in prosperous times and that he opposed tax rates higher than 25 percent. The book adds that Keynes shared the Friedman view that governments could stabilize prices by limiting the money supply. 
 Mr. Skidelsky is pessimistic about the financial industry reforms that are taking shape in the United States and England. He fears that regulators and banks will continue to use ''mathematical financial models for measuring and continue risk which promise more than they can deliver.'' 
 If that's true, the recent wave of Keynesian stimulus spending could be for naught. But then, it's too much to expect Keynes to save us now. What the world really needs are more farsighted economists who can capture the public's attention as he did in his day. Where is the next John Maynard Keynes? 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: New books re-examine the life and theories of John Maynard Keynes.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); HISTORY (87%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); LITERATURE (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); WRITERS (66%)

COMPANY: BLOOMSBURY GROUP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (53%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (53%)

PERSON: PETER CLARKE (79%); RONALD REAGAN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



52 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MT; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; HOLIDAY MOVIES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1914 words

HEADLINE: Eternal Role: A-List Character Actor

BYLINE: By DENNIS LIM

 BODY:
''THIS is the first time I've done an interview with an ice pack down my pants,'' Matt Damon said one recent Sunday, having retreated to the relative comfort of his trailer on a wet and chilly Manhattan film set.
 The culprit was a pulled groin muscle, sustained during a full morning of sprinting through TriBeCa streets in the pouring rain for ''The Adjustment Bureau,'' a romantic thriller based on a Philip K. Dick story.
 The last setup of the morning called for Mr. Damon, wearing a porkpie hat, to burst out of a side door and hurtle down an alley that had been rigged with sprinklers. This is the start of the climactic chase, which takes his character, a political candidate, through downtown Manhattan and up the steps of the courthouse on Centre Street. While this particular shot will amount to just a couple of seconds in the finished film, Mr. Damon was giving it the careful consideration befitting a thinking man's action hero. 
 Between takes he walked over to a cluster of video monitors to watch playbacks and confer with George Nolfi, the film's director. Mr. Nolfi, whose writing credits include two of Mr. Damon's films, ''Ocean's Twelve'' and ''The Bourne Ultimatum,'' talked about the rhythm of the sequence and the music he was planning to use for it. They discussed the impact of the door smacking into the wall. Mr. Damon suggested ways he could orient his body in relation to the camera.
 Details matter to Mr. Damon, who has put together his quietly impressive resume with a curatorial eye, working his way to the top of the Hollywood heap while avoiding the traps of a typical A-list career. ''The leading-man stuff doesn't come easily to me,'' he said. ''I've always felt like a character actor.''
 This may sound like false modesty from someone who, at 39, has yet to lose the golden-boy aura of his breakout role in ''Good Will Hunting'' (1997), a vehicle he wrote for himself with his boyhood friend Ben Affleck. But the increasing variety of Mr. Damon's roles and the almost perversely self-effacing ease with which he sinks into them suggest the thoughtful, restless sensibility of an actor who, as his frequent collaborator Steven Soderbergh put it, ''is thinking about expanding himself as opposed to presenting himself as a movie star.''
 In Mr. Soderbergh's acerbic character study ''The Informant!'' (now in theaters), Mr. Damon transforms himself into a doughy, delusional executive who exposes an agribusiness price-fixing scheme. In Clint Eastwood's ''Invictus'' (opening on Dec. 11), he's a rugby captain entrusted by Nelson Mandela with bringing socially unifying sporting glory to post-apartheid South Africa. And he reteams with Paul Greengrass, who directed him in ''The Bourne Supremacy'' and ''The Bourne Ultimatum,'' for ''Green Zone'' (scheduled for a March release), in which he plays a chief warrant officer on a futile hunt for weapons of mass destruction in newly occupied Iraq.
 ''Matt has a lot of repeat business,'' Mr. Soderbergh said. ''That's always a good sign. It's the real indication of how people feel, if they want to have that experience again.'' Mr. Damon has made two films with Gus Van Sant, three with Mr. Greengrass, five with Mr. Soderbergh (including all three ''Ocean's'' movies). He has also worked with Steven Spielberg, Martin Scorsese, Francis Ford Coppola, Terry Gilliam and Anthony Minghella.
 ''I've learned a lot just by standing next to these great directors and watching them,'' Mr. Damon said. He shared an Oscar for the screenplay of ''Good Will Hunting'' and wants to direct some day. (Mr. Affleck has already made the leap, to some acclaim, with ''Gone Baby Gone'' in 2007.) Until he finds the right project, he's happy to keep ''arming myself with information,'' he said. ''Clint didn't start until he was 39, and he's had 40 great years.''
 His watchful acting style comes partly from adopting the mind-set of a student on a film set. ''He's interested in the totality of the film,'' Mr. Soderbergh said, adding that this was not necessarily a common perspective for an actor. The few times he required direction in ''The Informant!,'' Mr. Soderbergh noted, it was because the obliviousness of his character conflicted so starkly with his basic approach: ''Matt has such a well-developed understanding of the context of a film, but he was playing someone who's never aware of context.''
 The hallmark of Mr. Damon's screen presence is his intelligent physicality, his ability to convey plot points and character psychology through subtle, precise shifts in facial expressions and body language, whether playing the tightly coiled Jason Bourne or the schlumpy Mark Whitacre in ''The Informant!'' 
 The hugely successful and highly kinetic Bourne movies established his athletic bona fides. It was Franka Potente, his love interest in the first two Bourne films and the star of ''Run Lola Run,'' who taught him that ''most people look ridiculous when they're running,'' he said. She told him to study videos of himself in motion.
 But what Mr. Damon does in the Bourne movies is trickier than just making an intense cardio workout look good. ''It's the way he frames his physical choices as an actor,'' Mr. Greengrass said. ''It's not just: oh, they're after me, I've got to run; it's about finding in what he does an impulsion to move. There's an imminence about his acting.'' 
 He singled out the foot chase through Berlin midway through ''The Bourne Supremacy'' that ends with Bourne jumping on a train. ''The entire character hinged on that one dialogue-less moment,'' Mr. Greengrass said, in which Mr. Damon ''had to convey three different ideas: first, he's evaded his pursuers; second, he feels a gnawing self-disgust because he's discovered he's a killer; and third, there is a huge implicit sense that he's got a plan.''
 For ''The Informant!,'' a very different kind of physical performance, he gained 30 pounds and had his face puffed up with prosthetics. The disguise obscures ''the boundaries of the character,'' Mr. Damon said. ''It was all a metaphor for this guy being kind of undefined.'' 
 That more or less sums up the quintessential Matt Damon role: the tabula rasa hero. It's hard to think of another contemporary star who has played so many unknowable ciphers. Whitacre's babbling stream of consciousness can be heard throughout ''The Informant!,'' but he proves to be an obscurely motivated protagonist and a hopelessly unreliable narrator. The amnesiac superspy Jason Bourne is an existential puzzle, not least to himself. Tom Ripley, of ''The Talented Mr. Ripley'' (1999), is an opaque shape-shifter, the antihero as identity thief. 
 For Mr. Damon, the appeal of embodying these ambiguous characters is in peeling back their inscrutable facades. ''As an actor you have to make decisions about what their motivations are,'' he said, ''even if you don't let on.'' 
 Mr. Damon's method, discreet to the point of invisibility, is premised on not letting on, not making it seem like work. ''Even with a performance that big,'' Mr. Soderbergh said, referring to Mr. Damon's turn in ''The Informant!,'' ''you never catch him acting.'' 
 Morgan Freeman, who plays Mr. Mandela in ''Invictus,'' said that Mr. Damon is, ''like myself, a journeyman,'' meaning it as a compliment. ''He always gets the job done,'' Mr. Freeman said. ''There's no strain in his work.'' 
 But understatement is often overlooked, as Mr. Damon is well aware. ''There's a style of acting that tends to get rewarded,'' Mr. Damon said. After a pause, he added, ''It's not what I do.'' (His one acting Oscar nomination was for ''Good Will Hunting.'')
 That has never stopped big-name directors from snapping him up, and Mr. Damon is solidly booked for much of the next year. After ''The Adjustment Bureau'' he'll work with Mr. Eastwood again in the supernatural thriller ''Hereafter.'' He'll also be in the Coen brothers' adaptation of Charles Portis's novel ''True Grit,'' opposite Jeff Bridges; George Clooney's ''Hamdan vs. Rumsfeld,'' about the United States government's case against Osama bin Laden's driver; and Mr. Soderbergh's film about Liberace, with Michael Douglas as the kitschy pianist and Mr. Damon as his bodyguard and lover.
 Mr. Damon said he also was becoming more comfortable using his celebrity on causes he supports, though he has made sure to work on nonpartisan issues like clean water for the world's poor through Water.org, a nonprofit group that he helped found. ''I'm trying to get involved with something you can't really argue with,'' he said.
 But he's also not afraid to show his political stripes. His was a lefty bohemian upbringing in the Boston suburbs. As a child he lived next door to the historian Howard Zinn and had one of the first copies of Mr. Zinn's ''People's History of the United States,'' which is name checked in ''Good Will Hunting.'' Mr. Damon is also an executive producer of ''The People Speak,'' a documentary featuring dramatic readings inspired by ''A People's History,'' set to be broadcast Dec. 13 on the History Channel. 
 Last fall Mr. Damon publicly expressed horror at the prospect of Sarah Palin's ''having the nuclear codes.'' And while both he and Mr. Greengrass were careful to characterize ''Green Zone'' as foremost a thriller, Mr. Damon seemed more willing to discuss the film in political terms. ''It's the original question of where were the W.M.D.'s,'' he said, adding that the movie chronicles ''the massive blunders that came at such a huge price.''
 Mr. Damon's existence as a public figure has coincided with the rise of warp-speed Internet-age celebrity culture. ''People who thought they could control their image are from a different era,'' he said. His overnight success made him a tempting target for a while, and he was mocked in everything from the Off Broadway spoof ''Matt & Ben'' to ''Team America: World Police,'' the animated satire in which the Matt Damon puppet is capable of uttering only his own name.
 But Mr. Damon, like all good postmodern celebrities, also has offered himself up for self-mocking deflation -- a recent cameo on ''Entourage,'' elaborate running jokes with Jimmy Kimmel and Sarah Silverman (including a much-viewed mock music video in which Ms. Silverman sings about her torrid affair with Mr. Damon). Having fun with his own image is, of course, a savvier form of control. ''I guess it's being proactive,'' he said. ''You're not waiting around to get ambushed.''
 He acknowledged that he occupies an enviable position in the Hollywood firmament. Of the actors on ''the shortlist who can get movies greenlit,'' he said, ''I probably have to deal with the least amount of nonsense around celebrity.'' 
 Mr. Damon lives with his wife of four years, Luciana, who is not involved in the film industry, and their three daughters in New York. ''Barring me getting up on a bar and dancing or leaving my wife for Lindsay Lohan, there's no story to update,'' he said. ''Every six months someone comes and squeezes off a picture of me and, yup, I'm still married.'' 
 His oddly low-key brand of stardom allows Mr. Damon, craftsmanlike actor that he is, simply to get on with the job. He is both ambitious enough to mention, more than once, ''my list,'' an inventory of filmmakers he still wants to work with, and modest enough to note that the list has already exceeded his wildest expectations. 
 ''If I could just go back and work with the guys I've worked with so far,'' he said, ''I'd be thrilled.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Matt Damon at the River Cafe in Brooklyn and, at right, with Morgan Freeman in a scene from Clint Eastwood's ''Invictus,'' which is scheduled to open on Dec. 11.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEITH BERNSTEIN/WARNER BROTHERS PICTURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); FILM (89%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); CELEBRITIES (72%)

PERSON: MATT DAMON (92%); CLINT EASTWOOD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



53 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: The Newest Face In the Late-Night Party

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER

 BODY:
WHEN George Lopez joins the late-night gang on Nov. 9, he will be easy to separate from the usual suspects.
 He'll be the one talking about his golf game -- in Spanish.
 The arrival of ''Lopez Tonight'' on TBS is breaking up what Jay Leno likes to call ''the parade of nine white men'' on the late-night talk shows. The weeknight network and cable mix has two female interlopers, both on outlets with relatively small audiences: Chelsea Handler, who is white, of ''Chelsea Lately'' on E!, and Mo'Nique, who is black and hosts the new ''Mo'Nique Show'' on BET. Still, no one is missing the genre's lack of diversity, certainly not Mr. Lopez, 48, who hopes to be the first breakthrough host of color since Arsenio Hall. 
 ''I did Arsenio 16 times,'' Mr. Lopez said over lunch in Manhattan, recalling ''The Arsenio Hall Show,'' which ran from 1989 to 1994 and gave Johnny Carson ratings competition, mostly because it reached so many younger viewers. ''That show was so hot. If you didn't watch it, you felt left out. I believe lightning can strike twice.'' 
 That belief is shared by Jim Paratore, a television executive and producer whose resume includes talk shows created for Rosie O'Donnell, Bonnie Hunt and Ellen DeGeneres. Mr. Paratore spent more than four years pushing Mr. Lopez -- whose sitcom, ''The George Lopez Show,'' ran on ABC from 2002 to 2007 -- to consider a late-night show before he agreed to try it.
 ''I would tell people, 'You don't know what a big star George is, his sitcom, his stand-up,' '' he said. ''You look at that, and it's, let's get in front of the parade. I don't think George has ever gotten the recognition he deserves as a comedian.''
 Mr. Lopez's comedy is intensely personal, his act dense with references to Latino life and his upbringing. His grandmother figures prominently; he portrays her as no-nonsense and completely unsentimental, no more so than when she is adamantly demanding the kids go to sleep. Her version of a bedtime story: ''There was a lady who drowned her kids.''
 Mr. Lopez said he has always regarded his comedy as having a universal reach, even though it springs from his Latino heritage. ''It's not racial,'' he said. ''It's more economic. When you don't have a lot, there's things that you laugh about.'' 
 His brand of comedy seems to resonate on television. Reruns of ''George Lopez'' get Nick at Nite's best ratings, averaging two million for each episode. ''We are thrilled at its performance,'' said Cyma Zarghami, the president of Nickelodeon, adding that Nick at Nite put aside its model of programming only sitcoms of a certain age (at least 10 years old) and sought out ''Lopez'' reruns immediately after the show ended its run on ABC. Now Nick at Nite schedules two episodes back to back each weeknight from 10 to 11.
 That ratings success has given TBS executives confidence that ''Lopez Tonight'' will have more staying power than other shows with minority hosts, including ''The Keenen Ivory Wayans Show'' and ''The Magic Hour'' with Magic Johnson, which flamed out more than a decade ago. (A once-a-week late-night entry with a black host, ''The Wanda Sykes Show,'' begins on Saturday on Fox.)
 ''Lopez Tonight'' could shake up late-night television in other ways. Mr. Lopez has a significant Hispanic fan base, and that market -- sizable, growing and generally young -- is attractive to advertisers.
 ''There are a lot of elements that could make it work,'' Brad Adgate, senior vice president of research for Horizon Media, said of Mr. Lopez's show. ''There are 40 million Hispanics in America. The Latino median age is only 27. As a group they are very family oriented. There are a lot of product categories that could be really great for a show like this.'' 
 ''Lopez Tonight,'' which will run Monday through Thursday at 11 p.m., also stands a good chance of bringing in a young audience that isn't watching any of those other guys. ''I don't think there is much crossover with Conan O'Brien or Jimmy Kimmel or David Letterman,'' Mr. Adgate said.
 That would please Mr. Lopez, who wants his show to stand out. But he acknowledged there is only so much new you can do with the late-night format. So yes: a monologue and celebrity guests talking about their latest project and music acts booked to promote their latest CDs. (Week 1's guests include Kobe Bryant, Eva Longoria Parker, Jamie Foxx, Ms. DeGeneres and Queen Latifah.)
 But, Mr. Lopez pointed out: no desk, no painted ersatz Los Angeles skyline (''we're making it look more like a club''), no stationary cameras (hand-held instead), no cards with questions. ''I want to be very prepared, just make it a conversation,'' he said.
 And the conversation, which may occasionally include a little Spanish, could also be a bit more pointed. ''Yes, I will be more outspoken politically,'' Mr. Lopez said. ''It's unfortunate that I wasn't on when Castro and Hugo Chavez were in the news, and Anderson Cooper was at the border during the whole immigration thing. I told the writers I don't want it to seem like somebody is moving my mouth for me. I'd like to get the material and ingest it and deliver it in my own way.''
 Most late-night hosts have resisted making their political views public, but Mr. Lopez was very involved in Barack Obama's presidential campaign, and he said he isn't about to back off. ''I spent a year trying to get him elected, getting out the Hispanic vote,'' Mr. Lopez said. Mr. Obama has already repaid him by appearing in a promo for the new show. (He taped it during the campaign, not as president.)
 But Mr. Lopez added: ''We'll get people on who wouldn't necessarily agree with my views on immigration. We're not going to hide from an opposing view.''
 Still, this show is not going to depend on conversation; Mr. Lopez remains, as he has been since his teenage years, a comedian. His road to regular performances in Las Vegas, an ABC sitcom, stand-up specials on HBO and now a talk show has not always been easy. ''I became really mundane,'' he said, speaking of his early years as a stand-up comic. ''I was fighting myself. I wasn't comfortable in my own skin. I still loved stand-up more than I hated it, but I hated it a lot.''
 During the course of an extended booking at Carolines in New York, Mr. Lopez said, he found himself in his room at the Mayflower Hotel, sitting on his bed and telling himself: ''This is fake. I'm not doing anything I'm proud of.''
 After that he started to retool. ''I made the act about my background.'' That background was challenging in a home without parents. (He was raised in Los Angeles by a grandmother after both his parents abandoned him, he has said.) Mr. Lopez was also born with a congenital kidney condition that plagued him until his wife, Ana, donated one of her kidneys in 2005. They are now national representatives for the National Kidney Foundation.
 Mr. Lopez said his health is now fine. He plays a lot of golf, often in celebrity tournaments. (He is the host of the Bob HopeChrysler Classic.) He is also a boxing fan, and being a late-night host, he said, is like being a fighter; ''you have to get yourself ready.''
 And not just to be funny every night. Mr. Lopez said he recognized how performing on a show four nights a week would inevitably change his daily routine, but he said he intended to keep the basics intact. ''I still want to go to Laker games. I still want to go to concerts. I still want to drive my daughter to school every morning. I still want to go golfing.'' 
 But with a show to tape in the evenings, one significant change is looming. ''Usually at 5 I'm napping; I take a little siesta every day around 5,'' Mr. Lopez said. ''I'll have to move that to 2.''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 8, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the comedian George Lopez gave an outdated name for a golf tournament for which he is host. It is the Bob Hope Classic, not the Bob Hope Chrysler Classic. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Far right, George Lopez, host of the new TBS talk show ''Lopez Tonight,'' and above on his 2002-7 sitcom with, from left, Masiela Lusha, Constance Marie and Luis Armand Garcia.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN SCANLON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY WARNER BROTHERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (91%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%)

PERSON: GEORGE LOPEZ (90%); JAY LENO (58%); CHELSEA HANDLER (55%); ELLEN DEGENERES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (57%)

TITLE: Lopez Tonight (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



54 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: Top Democrats Are Pushing for New Strategies on Federal Deficit

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Faced with anxiety in financial markets about the huge federal deficit and the potential for it to become an electoral liability for Democrats, the White House and Congressional leaders are weighing options for narrowing the gap, including a bipartisan commission that could force tax increases and spending cuts. 
 But even the idea of a panel to bridge the partisan divide has run into partisan objections. Many Democrats, including in the White House, are loath to cede such far-reaching decisions to a commission and doubt Republicans' willingness to compromise. And most Republicans remain adamantly opposed to tax increases, leaving the prospects for any bipartisan approach limited at best.
 The proponents, however, are pressing for a Senate vote this month. ''If we have the same process and the same people, we are going to get the same results,'' said Senator Evan Bayh, Democrat of Indiana, who recently met with Mr. Obama to discuss the idea. ''The Democratic Party wants to spend more than we can afford; the Republican Party tends to want to cut taxes more than we can afford. So we are stuck.''
 Concerns about the deficit are building even as the White House and Congress continue to add to it with tax cuts and spending to stimulate a still-fragile economy. Yet those one-time costs do not trouble most economists and market analysts. 
 The main driver of long-term deficits is the chasm between the benefit programs Medicare and Medicaid, which are growing faster than the economy, and federal tax collections, which are at one of their lowest levels in many decades relative to the size of the economy. 
 Mr. Obama's budget director, Peter R. Orszag, now at work on the president's next budget, due in February for the 2011 fiscal year, declined to comment about a bipartisan commission and instead promised that the coming budget would propose additional ways to reduce the deficit beyond next year, when the economy has fully recovered. 
 ''As the recovery strengthens and the economy begins to deliver job growth, we will have to take the tough steps necessary to return our nation to a fiscally disciplined and sustainable path,'' Mr. Orszag said. ''Even with a fiscally responsible health insurance reform that will help to reduce long-term deficits, we recognize that more is needed to put the budget back on a sustainable path.''
 The administration continues to argue that Mr. Obama's proposed health care overhaul is ''the most significant act we could take to tackle the deficit,'' as Christina D. Romer, the chairman of his Council of Economic Advisers, said in a speech last week. But it remains unclear how much the legislation working its way through Congress would slow the growth of Medicare and Medicaid.
 The administration has not signaled what specific proposals it might make, but Mr. Orszag's challenges are formidable: the chief sources of significant deficit reductions -- savings in government health programs and tax increases on the rich -- will have been tapped to offset the cost of a health care bill if it is enacted. 
 The military savings the administration projected this year are in question given the buildup in Afghanistan, and it has been unable to close corporate tax loopholes worth many billions of dollars. Interest costs have increased with the bigger debt. And the economic forecast has worsened since Mr. Obama's first budget.
 Proposals for a bipartisan commission could get a vote in late November, when Congress must raise the nation's nearly $12 trillion debt limit so the Treasury Department can continue borrowing to keep the government running. Measures to raise the legal debt limit have been magnets for anti-deficit amendments in the past.
 Mr. Bayh met with Mr. Obama at the White House several weeks ago as a leader of a group of 10 senators -- nine moderate Democrats and an independent -- who signed a letter supporting an amendment binding Congress and the White House to ''a special process'' that would force them ''to face up to our nation's long-term fiscal imbalances.''
 There is no indication that more liberal Democrats have any appetite for deep spending cuts or further tax increases in the coming year as the party battles to maintain its majorities in the House and Senate in the 2010 midterm elections. But the party's more fiscally hawkish members are becoming more outspoken about the need to address the issue in a serious way.
 ''It is imperative that we act,'' said Senator Kent Conrad, the North Dakota Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Budget Committee and supports the amendment, though he did not sign the letter. ''The default position now is to take care of things by not paying for them. We are no longer in a position where we can continue to do that.''
 Mr. Conrad said he recently had a ''highly energetic'' meeting at the White House with Mr. Obama about bringing a new urgency to the push for deficit reduction. He also debated the pros and cons of a commission with a Democratic opponent, Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, in a meeting attended by Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff. 
 And Mr. Conrad has been reaching out to several Republicans, including Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire, the senior Republican on the Budget Committee who was Mr. Conrad's co-sponsor of a proposal for the bipartisan commission. 
 Mr. Conrad favors something like the successful commission to close military bases, another decision that lawmakers found difficult to make because of parochial and political considerations. 
 The commission's members would be all or mostly lawmakers, to give them a stake in the outcome, and Congress would have to vote its recommendations up or down, without amendment. 
 The Budget Committee will hold hearings in mid-November on the Conrad-Gregg proposal and other ideas from lawmakers and budget analysts for attacking deficits that are the largest since the end of World War II. 
 The deficit for the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30 was $1.4 trillion, and the combined deficits projected over the next decade would add about $9 trillion to the national debt. 
 Republicans are ''openly in support of it,'' Mr. Gregg said. ''It would be a very significant step in the right direction,'' he added, and ''send a definitive signal to the markets and the American people that we are finally serious.''
 But Mr. Gregg predicted that leading Congressional Democrats would resist, saying, ''I have seen nothing that implies they would accept a real commission that would accomplish what needs to be done and be bipartisan and fair.''
 The speaker of the House, Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, is opposed to creating a commission. Other Democrats say she does not want to further reduce spending for Medicare and Medicaid, the entitlement programs whose growth is driving the projections of unsustainable deficits, or give Republicans near-equal power over the commission's work.
 ''She thinks we can accomplish the same goals through the work of the committees we already have,'' said her spokesman, Brendan Daly. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota, is a co-sponsor of a plan to create a bipartisan commission that would seek ways to cut the federal deficit. ''It is imperative that we act,'' he says.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL DEBT (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); MEDICARE (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); INSURANCE (73%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (60%); MEDICAID (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); PETER ORSZAG (78%); EVAN BAYH (58%); KENT CONRAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



55 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: A Season of Adjustment

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL. 
E-mail: bigdeal@nytimes.com

 BODY:
SCOTT BESSENT'S 11-room duplex apartment at One Sutton Place South, one of the grand prewar co-ops overlooking the East River, could be considered a bellwether for the fall season and the possible recovery of the Manhattan real estate market. 
 The price was cut, after a winter of bad news, but a sale was finally made after increased summer activity gave buyers more confidence in the economy and the enduring value of real estate. Now brokers are debating whether that sales bump was a one-time event driven by pent-up demand, or is likely to continue.
 The 1927 building, at East 56th Street, was designed by Rosario Candela, the renowned architect of luxury apartments. It is entered through a driveway with three arches, then through a lobby facing a private garden. 
 The apartment has a large gallery with a grand staircase, leading to a 31-foot living room with a Juliet balcony. It had been the home of Patricia Kennedy Lawford, a sister of President John F. Kennedy, who died in 2006. 
 Mr. Bessent put the apartment on the market in October 2008, when world leaders and bankers were struggling to find ways to save the financial system. The asking price with the listing broker, Ann Jeffery of Brown Harris Stevens, was $12.5 million. 
 That price was only $500,000 more than Mr. Bessent, a hedge fund manager and former managing director of George Soros's investment fund, had paid for the apartment 16 months earlier. When it didn't sell during that gloomy winter, as General Motors and Chrysler were teetering toward bankruptcy, the asking price was cut twice, to just under $10 million. 
 City property records filed last week show that it changed hands for $9.5 million, a cut of 24 percent from the original asking price, and $2.5 million less than what Mr. Bessent paid in 2007. 
 The buyer was Joshua Gregg Berkowitz, also a protege of Mr. Soros. He left Soros Fund Management, where he had been a portfolio manager, to create a new investment fund, Woodbine Capital last year.
 Records of recently closed transactions like Mr. Bessent's show that average and median sale prices were nearly flat in October, compared with the previous month. The sales activity was better than September, though a bit below August. 
 Streeteasy.com found that the number of signed contracts reported in October was also flat. 
 Some brokers say that showings have tapered off in the last week or two amid renewed uncertainty about the economy. Dolly Lenz, a broker at Prudential Douglas Elliman, said that the fundamentals remained solid, but that with declining inventory, low prices and low interest rates, other brokers had told her that they were not as busy.
 This was disputed by Pamela Liebman, the president and chief executive of the Corcoran Group, and Hall F. Willkie, the president of Brown Harris Stevens. Ms. Liebman said that one Corcoran broker reported having six contracts signed in the last week. 
 In a new market report, Elizabeth Stribling, the president of Stribling & Associates, concluded that the market has ''reached a plateau in response to significantly lower prices.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: One Sutton Place South (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); DEEDS & RECORDINGS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (51%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (75%); GEORGE SOROS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



56 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1622 words

HEADLINE: The G.O.P. Stalinists Invade Upstate New York

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
BARACK OBAMA'S most devilish political move since the 2008 campaign was to appoint a Republican congressman from upstate New York as secretary of the Army. This week's election to fill that vacant seat has set off nothing less than a riotous and bloody national G.O.P. civil war. No matter what the results in that race on Tuesday, the Republicans are the sure losers. This could be a gift that keeps on giving to the Democrats through 2010, and perhaps beyond.
 The governors' races in New Jersey and Virginia were once billed as the marquee events of Election Day 2009 -- a referendum on the Obama presidency and a possible Republican ''comeback.'' But preposterous as it sounds, the real action migrated to New York's 23rd, a rural Congressional district abutting Canada. That this pastoral setting could become a G.O.P. killing field, attracting an all-star cast of combatants led by Sarah Palin, Glenn Beck, William Kristol and Newt Gingrich, is a premise out of a Depression-era screwball comedy. But such farces have become the norm for the conservative movement -- whether the participants are dressing up in full ''tea party'' drag or not. 
 The battle for upstate New York confirms just how swiftly the right has devolved into a wacky, paranoid cult that is as eager to eat its own as it is to destroy Obama. The movement's undisputed leaders, Palin and Beck, neither of whom have what Palin once called the ''actual responsibilities'' of public office, would gladly see the Republican Party die on the cross of right-wing ideological purity. Over the short term, at least, their wish could come true. 
 The New York fracas was ignited by the routine decision of 11 local Republican county chairmen to anoint an assemblywoman, Dede Scozzafava, as their party's nominee for the vacant seat. The 23rd is in safe Republican territory that hasn't sent a Democrat to Congress in decades. And Scozzafava is a mainstream conservative by New York standards; one statistical measure found her voting record slightly to the right of her fellow Republicans in the Assembly. But she has occasionally strayed from orthodoxy on social issues (abortion, same-sex marriage) and endorsed the Obama stimulus package. To the right's Jacobins, that's cause to send her to the guillotine. 
 Sure enough, bloggers trashed her as a radical leftist and ditched her for a third-party candidate they deem a ''true'' conservative, an accountant and businessman named Doug Hoffman. When Gingrich dared endorse Scozzafava anyway -- as did other party potentates like John Boehner and Michael Steele -- he too was slimed. Mocking Newt's presumed 2012 presidential ambitions, Michelle Malkin imagined him appointing Al Sharpton as secretary of education and Al Gore as ''global warming czar.'' She's quite the wit. 
 The wrecking crew of Kristol, Fred Thompson, Dick Armey, Michele Bachmann, The Wall Street Journal editorial page and the government-bashing Club for Growth all joined the Hoffman putsch. Then came the big enchilada: a Hoffman endorsement from Palin on her Facebook page. Such is Palin's clout that Steve Forbes, Rick Santorum and Tim Pawlenty, the Minnesota governor (and presidential aspirant), promptly fell over one another in their Pavlovian rush to second her motion. They were joined by far-flung Republican congressmen from Kansas, Georgia, Oklahoma and California, not to mention a gaggle of state legislators from Colorado. On Fox News, Beck took up the charge, insinuating that Hoffman's Republican opponent might be a fan of Karl Marx. Some $3 million has now been dumped into this race by outside groups.
 Who exactly is the third-party maverick arousing such ardor? Hoffman doesn't even live in the district. When he appeared before the editorial board of The Watertown Daily Times 10 days ago, he ''showed no grasp'' of local issues, as the subsequent editorial put it. Hoffman complained that he should have received the questions in advance -- blissfully unaware that they had been asked by the paper in an editorial on the morning of his visit.
 Last week it turned out that Hoffman's prime attribute to the radical right -- as a take-no-prisoners fiscal conservative -- was bogus. In fact he's on the finance committee of a hospital that happily helped itself to a $479,000 federal earmark. Then again, without the federal government largess that the tea party crowd so deplores, New York's 23rd would be a Siberia of joblessness. The biggest local employer is the pork-dependent military base, Fort Drum. 
 The right's embrace of Hoffman is a double-barreled suicide for the G.O.P. On Saturday, the battered Scozzafava suspended her campaign, further scrambling the race. It's still conceivable that the Democratic candidate could capture a seat the Republicans should own. But it's even better for Democrats if Hoffman wins. Punch-drunk with this triumph, the right will redouble its support of primary challengers to 2010 G.O.P. candidates they regard as impure. That's bad news for even a Republican as conservative as Kay Bailey Hutchison, whose primary opponent in the Texas governor's race, the incumbent Rick Perry, floated the possibility of secession at a teabagger rally in April and hastily endorsed Hoffman on Thursday.
 The more rightists who win G.O.P. primaries, the greater the Democrats' prospects next year. But the electoral math is less interesting than the pathology of this movement. Its antecedent can be found in the early 1960s, when radical-right hysteria carried some of the same traits we're seeing now: seething rage, fear of minorities, maniacal contempt for government, and a Freudian tendency to mimic the excesses of political foes. Writing in 1964 of that era's equivalent to today's tea party cells, the historian Richard Hofstadter observed that the John Birch Society's ''ruthless prosecution'' of its own ideological war often mimicked the tactics of its Communist enemies. 
 The same could be said of Beck, Palin and their acolytes. Though they constantly liken the president to various totalitarian dictators, it is they who are re-enacting Stalinism in full purge mode. They drove out Arlen Specter, and now want to ''melt Snowe'' (as the blog Red State put it). The same Republicans who once deplored Democrats for refusing to let an anti-abortion dissident, Gov. Robert Casey of Pennsylvania, speak at the 1992 Clinton convention now routinely banish any dissenters in their own camp.
 These conservatives' whiny cries of victimization also parrot a tic they once condemned in liberals. After Rush Limbaugh was booted from an ownership group bidding on the St. Louis Rams, he moaned about being done in by the ''race card.'' What actually did him in, of course, was the free-market American capitalism he claims to champion. Limbaugh didn't understand that in an increasingly diverse nation, profit-seeking N.F.L. franchises actually want to court black ticket buyers, not drive them away. 
 This same note of self-martyrdom was sounded in a much-noticed recent column by the former Nixon hand Pat Buchanan. Ol' Pat sounded like the dispossessed antebellum grandees in ''Gone With the Wind'' when lamenting the plight of white working-class voters. ''America was once their country,'' he wrote. ''They sense they are losing it. And they are right.'' 
 They are right. That America was lost years ago, and no national political party can thrive if it lives in denial of that truth. The right still may want to believe, as Palin said during the campaign, that Alaska, with its small black and Hispanic populations, is a ''microcosm of America.'' (New York's 23rd also has few blacks or Hispanics.) But most Americans like their country's 21st-century profile. 
 That changing complexion is part of why the McCain-Palin ticket lost every demographic group by large margins in 2008 except white senior citizens and the dwindling fifth of America that's still rural. It's also why the G.O.P. has been in a nosedive since the inauguration, whatever Obama's ups and downs. In the latest Wall Street Journal-NBC News poll, only 17 percent of Americans identify themselves as Republicans (as opposed to 30 percent for the Democrats, and 44 for independents). 
 No wonder even the very conservative Republican contenders in the two big gubernatorial contests this week have frantically tried to disguise their own convictions. The candidate in Virginia, Bob McDonnell, is a graduate of Pat Robertson's universitywhose career has been devoted to curbing abortion rights, gay civil rights and even birth control. But in this campaign he ditched those issues, disinvited Palin for a campaign appearance, praised Obama's Nobel Prize, and ran a closing campaign ad trumpeting ''Hope.'' Chris Christie, McDonnell's counterpart in New Jersey, posted a campaign video celebrating ''Change'' in which Obama's face and most stirring campaign sound bites so dominate you'd think the president had endorsed the Republican over his Democratic opponent, Jon Corzine. 
 Only in the alternative universe of the far right is Obama a pariah and Palin the great white hope. It's become a Beltway truism that the White House's (mild) spat with Fox News is counterproductive because it drives up the network's numbers. But if curious moderate and independent voters are now tempted to surf there and encounter Beck's histrionics for the first time, the president's numbers will benefit as well. To the uninitiated, the tea party crowd comes across like the barflies in ''Star Wars.''
 There is only one political opponent whom Obama really has to worry about at this moment: Hamid Karzai. It's Afghanistan and joblessness, not the Stalinists of the right, that have the power to bring this president down.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ARMIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); REFERENDUMS (72%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (60%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (50%); MARRIAGE (50%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (78%); SARAH PALIN (78%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); MICHAEL STEELE (58%); GLENN BECK (58%); AL SHARPTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009



57 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: With Payroll Tax, Feeling the Effects of an M.T.A. Bailout Plan

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
For subway and bus riders in New York, a $1.9 billion bailout in May from Albany meant that the Metropolitan Transportation Authority did not have to drastically cut service and raise fares.
 But the price for that bailout is now being felt by cabbies, taxi riders, motorists, business owners -- even private and religious schools.
 On Monday, the first payment is due for a payroll tax in the 12 counties served by the transportation authority. The tax, one of the most unpopular elements of the rescue package, will raise $1.54 billion, and is retroactive to March 1 for most businesses. 
 Taxi passengers are now also feeling the pinch: A 50-cent surcharge on cab fares went into effect on Sunday, drawing ire from taxi drivers who say that their business will suffer.
 ''On shorter fares, riders will opt to walk or take the subway,'' said Bhairavi Desai, executive director of the New York Taxi Workers Alliance, a drivers' group that held a rally outside Pennsylvania Station on Sunday.
 Ms. Desai said that the surcharge -- which in effect would raise the base fare to $3 -- should be temporary and that Albany should seek other alternatives to finance the transportation authority. ''It will have an impact on ridership in these economic times,'' she said.
 Drivers in the region are also contributing to the authority's rescue. Since September, renewing a driving registration for two years carries an additional $50 surcharge; a standard eight-year driver's license renewal will cost an additional $16. And a 5 percent tax on car rentals went into effect on June 1. 
 But the payroll tax has prompted the most animosity so far, most of it coming from suburban business leaders in the 12-county region who argued that their tax burden greatly outweighed the benefits they receive from the transportation authority.
 The tax also has drawn strong objections from private and religious schools whose officials say they are being forced to cut services and possibly raise tuition while public schools in the area get a pass. 
 Under terms hammered out in May by state lawmakers, public school districts will be reimbursed for the tax, which costs businesses 34 cents for every $100 of wages. The unusual provision was intended by the bill's backers to win over reluctant legislators, but other nonprofit groups were not exempted.
 ''It's really an issue, I think, of basic fairness,'' said James Cultrara, education director for the New York State Catholic Conference, an advocacy group that represents the state's Catholic schools. ''Certainly we can understand why the Legislature would want to reimburse the public schools. Why not then also reimburse the Catholic and other private schools?''
 Legislation is now pending in Albany to amend the tax so that independent schools can also be reimbursed. But it is unlikely that the bill will be considered until next year; in the meantime, private school officials say they will have to pay $6 million to the state.
 ''It could be anywhere between $35,000 and $70,000 a school,'' said Rabbi Shmuel Lefkowitz, a spokesman for Agudath Israel of America, a religious school group. ''Donations and contributions are going down; parents are unemployed or underemployed and not able to pay the tuition. With this prior picture of everything else that has been happening, this hurts.''
 For the students at Children's Storefront, a tuition-free elementary school in Harlem, the payroll tax could mean the end of afternoon basketball.
 ''It instantly put me $8,000 over budget,'' said Kathy Egmont, the head of school. ''I was really surprised that there was not an exemption for even smaller nonprofits.''
 Ms. Egmont said she was circling back to donors to try to make up the shortfall. She said the reduced budget could force her to reconsider hiring teachers and maintaining certain summer school programs and the boys' and girls' basketball teams.
 ''Our staff is working often at lower-than-market salaries because we're a charity, so they get doubly hit,'' she said. ''Their subway fares are going up, and this impacts our ability to help raise their salaries.''
 Those fares may have gone up even higher, however, had the tax not been decided in May. Inaction in Albany may have resulted in steep fare increases on the buses, subways and commuter trains used by students and teachers alike.
 ''The M.T.A. is part of the economic lifeblood of the region itself,'' said Tom Bergen, a spokesman for the state's Department of Taxation and Finance. ''Businesses benefit substantially from having the M.T.A. serving as a transportation infrastructure.''
 Private school administrators believe that many parents are only now becoming aware of the payroll tax's impact, in part thanks to a letter sent late last month by the Archdiocese of New York suggesting that ''turning down the thermostat'' could be one result of the new tax.
 ''We have a budget that was already set,'' said John R. Joven, the principal of Holy Name School, which serves students in preschool through eighth grade on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. ''It's the first time anybody heard about it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (89%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (89%); RELIGION (89%); LEGISLATION (85%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TUITION FEES (76%); COUNTIES (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); DRIVERS LICENSES (72%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (66%); SUBURBS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2009



58 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 305 words

 BODY:
ECONOMIC DATA Reports will include construction spending for September, pending home sales for September and the Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing index for October (Monday); factory orders for September (Tuesday); the I.S.M.'s service index for October (Wednesday); third-quarter productivity (Thursday); and wholesale trade inventories for September, consumer credit for September and employment for October (Friday). 
 CORPORATE EARNINGS Reports will come from Clorox, Ford Motor and Humana (Monday); Archer Daniels Midland, Cablevision Systems, Hartford Financial Services Group, Kraft Foods, Marathon Oil, MasterCard, Medco Health Solutions, Royal Caribbean Cruises and Viacom (Tuesday); Allstate, Cisco Systems, Comcast, GMAC, Marsh & McLennan, Molson Coors Brewing, the News Corporation, Prudential Financial, Pulte Homes, Qualcomm, Time Warner and Whole Foods Market (Wednesday); and Activision, CBS, Cigna, CVS, DirecTV, Dynegy, E.W. Scripps, MGM Mirage, Nasdaq OMX Group, Sara Lee, Starbucks, Thomson Reuters, Time Warner Cable and the Wendy's/Arby's Group (Thursday).
 IN WASHINGTON The Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee holds a hearing on small businesses and health costs (Tuesday).
 The Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee holds a hearing on business formation and financial crime (Thursday).
 INDUSTRY REPORTS The major automakers report United States vehicle sales for October (Tuesday).
 Retail chains report sales for October (Thursday).
 FED MEETING The Federal Open Market Committee holds its rate-setting meeting (Tuesday and Wednesday).
 ENRON SENTENCING Kevin A. Howard, above, a former executive in Enron's broadband business who pleaded guilty to falsifying records, is to be sentenced in Houston. He could receive up to 12 months of home confinement.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); INVENTORIES (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); WHOLESALERS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); RETAILERS (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); GUILTY PLEAS (71%); HOUSE ARREST (71%); SENTENCING (70%); AUTOMAKERS (70%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (65%); BROADBAND (50%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (83%); NEWS CORP (83%); ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (71%); MOLSON COORS BREWING CO (70%); MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (69%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); ROYAL CARIBBEAN CRUISES LTD (57%); MEDCO HEALTH SOLUTIONS INC (57%); VIACOM INC (57%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (57%); MARATHON OIL CORP (57%); CIGNA CORP (56%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (56%); WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (56%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (56%); WENDY'S CO (56%); PULTEGROUP INC (56%); QUALCOMM INC (56%); MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (56%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (56%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (56%); ACTIVISION BLIZZARD INC (56%); DYNEGY INC (56%); ALLSTATE CORP (56%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (55%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%)

TICKER: HIG (NYSE) (83%); NWS (NASDAQ) (83%); NWS (ASX) (83%); ADM (NYSE) (71%); TAP (NYSE) (70%); MGM (NYSE) (69%); FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); RCL (NYSE) (57%); VIA (NASDAQ) (57%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (57%); MRO (NYSE) (57%); CI (NYSE) (56%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (56%); WFM (NASDAQ) (56%); TWC (NYSE) (56%); WEN (NASDAQ) (56%); PHM (NYSE) (56%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (56%); MMC (NYSE) (56%); MHM (LSE) (56%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (56%); PRU (NYSE) (56%); ATVI (NASDAQ) (56%); AIY (FRA) (56%); DYN (NYSE) (56%); ALL (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (83%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (83%); NAICS525190 OTHER INSURANCE FUNDS (83%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (83%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (83%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (71%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (71%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (71%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (71%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (71%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (71%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (71%); NAICS424810 BEER & ALE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (70%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (70%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (70%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (70%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (69%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS483114 COASTAL & GREAT LAKES PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (57%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (57%); NAICS524292 THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION OF INSURANCE & PENSION FUNDS (57%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (57%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (57%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (57%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (57%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (57%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (57%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (56%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (56%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (56%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (56%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (56%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (56%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (56%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (56%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (56%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (56%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2009



59 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: 23 Private College Presidents Made More Than $1 Million in 2008, Survey Finds

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
The presidents of the nation's major private research universities were paid a median compensation of $627,750 in the 2007-8 fiscal year -- a 5.5 percent increase from the previous year -- according to The Chronicle of Higher Education annual executive compensation survey. 
 The highest paid private university executive was Shirley Ann Jackson, president of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, N.Y., with a pay package totaling $1,598,247 in fiscal 2008. Ms. Jackson, a physicist and former chairwoman of the federal Nuclear Regulatory Commission, has been at Rensselaer since 1999, and first became the highest-paid university president just two years later. 
 In this year's survey, she was followed by David J. Sargent of Suffolk University in Boston, the top earner in last year's survey, who took in $1,496,593 in fiscal 2008, and Steadman Upham of the University of Tulsa, whose pay package was $1,485,275.
 According to the survey, published in Monday's edition, 23 private college presidents made over $1 million in total compensation, and 110 made more than $500,000. Such large pay packages are still relatively new in higher education: as recently as 2002, there were no million-dollar presidents, only four earning more than $800,000, and 27 earning more than $500,000. 
 Over all, the Chronicle survey found, the median pay for presidents of the 419 private colleges and universities surveyed was $358,746, a 6.5 percent increase over the previous year. Over the last five years, the median presidential pay, adjusted for inflation, grew by 14 percent. 
 Why is university presidents' pay going up so much? 
 ''I think the answer you'd get from the governing boards that set these salaries is that it's a market and it's increasingly hard to find these people,'' said Jeffrey Selingo, editor of The Chronicle of Higher Education, which has published its compensation survey annually since 1993. ''That said, almost every year, presidential salaries have gone up faster than inflation, and faster than tuition, which rankles some people on campus.'' 
 The Chronicle's information is from federal tax documents for the 2007-8 fiscal year, the most recent data available, but from a period before the current economic downturn. More recently, most colleges have moderated, or frozen, salary increases.
 ''It's important to remember that these pay packages were set before the economic crisis began last fall,'' Mr. Selingo said. ''Since then, many presidents have taken pay cuts, donated part of their pay in scholarships, or had their pay frozen. Next year, it's likely that we won't see many presidents getting big raises.'' 
 Mr. Selingo pointed out, however, that even if presidential pay has stopped growing so quickly, tuition has not, with 58 private colleges charging more than $50,000 for tuition, fees, room and board this year, compared with only five last year. 
 In its previous presidential pay surveys, The Chronicle reported compensation at both public and private universities, and last year, it was the public university presidents who were getting the larger raises. 
 In the current survey, covering only private institutions, for the presidents of large, complex research universities the pay increase was 11 percent over the year's inflation rate. Over the last five years, The Chronicle found, their median increase, adjusted for inflation, was 19.6 percent. 
 Presidents of small liberal arts colleges tend to be paid less, with only John A. Fry, the president of Franklin & Marshall College earning more than a $1 million in 2007-8. 
 While most of the highest-paying universities on The Chronicle's lists are well-known institutions, there are some surprising names as well. 
 For example, among the five highest paid presidents at master's level institutions are Guy F. Riekeman, the president of Life University, in Marietta, Ga., which is known for its chiropractic program; Charles H. Polk, the president of Mountain State University in Beckley, W. Va., which offers distance learning and branch campuses in several states; and Jerry C. Lee, the president of National University in San Diego, which has dozens of online degree programs and campuses throughout California.
 Many of the pay packages in the survey included deferred compensation. 
 For the first time this year, The Chronicle survey analyzed the ''former officer'' pay reported on college's federal tax forms, and found that 85 of the institutions, about one in five, were paying at least one former officer or key employee more than $200,000 in compensation in 2007-8. 
 Three of them paid a former officer more than $1 million: Stephen J. Trachtenberg, a former president of George Washington University's, received a package totaling $3,664,569; Oberlin College paid Nancy S. Dye, a former president, $1,460,420; and Emory University paid Michael M. E. Johns, a former executive vice president who now serves as chancellor, $1,006,188. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: Top Pay for University Presidents: Pay among private university presidents increased 6.5 percent in 2007-8.(Source: The Chronicle of Higher Education) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (94%); POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SALARY SURVEYS (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%)

COMPANY: CHRONICLE OF HIGHER EDUCATION (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (57%); UNIVERSITY OF TULSA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2009



60 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 467 words

 BODY:
NEW YORK ON LESS:
 Are There Upsides
 To a Downturn?
 The recession's effects are felt in ways big and small: Thousands of jobs have been lost, the number of teenage runaways has surged, and more reports of weak home sales sent Wall Street into decline just last week. 
 But the recession's news has not been all bad.
 Lower fuel prices mean lower heating bills: The federal Energy Information Administration projects that households will spend, on average, 8 percent less this winter. 
 The travel industry is still dangling deals, trying to lure potential tourists onto planes and into hotel rooms. Last week Travelzoo.com was offering ''$300 off at a 4-Diamond Colorado resort, a $649 six-night Prague vacation or a five-night Caribbean cruise for $349.''
 Among those who have resisted, choosing staycations to save money, some found that it could be fun to stay local and take in a museum or two and nap -- in one's own bed -- in the middle of the day. And that traveling on the cheap is its own adventure.
 On the upside of layoffs, the back-to-school movement is keeping the nation's 1,200 community colleges packed. Other newly unemployed workers are taking a chance on new careers. And others are taking a break from the grind to expand their horizons.
 The fashionable among us have reason to celebrate: The recession has even burst the denim bubble, with $300 pairs of jeans now up for grabs for less than $200. Equestrians, too, are picking up bargains on their major investment: horses.
 But has there been a silver lining amid the gloom for you? An opportunity to start a new business or create art, even take on a new outlook? 
 Have falling prices brought an expensive commodity (real estate, services, travel) suddenly into reach? What about citywide and global effects on how we relate to one another?
 Share your thoughts online.
 ALSO
 ON THE BLOG
 INTERACTIVE: Reaching Out: For more coverage on the human side of the recession, visit the Living With Less guide, where readers can share their photos, moods and tips for weathering the economic downturn.
 NEW YORK
 DAYBOOK
 Parking Rules
 Because of Election Day, alternate-side street cleaning rules are suspended on Tuesday.
 TAKING
 QUESTIONS
 This week, Bruce F. Berg, the author of ''New York City Politics: Governing Gotham,'' will answer readers' questions about New York City politics and the 2009 elections. Submit questions online; the first set of answers will appear Wednesday on the blog.
 Dr. Berg is an associate professor of political science at Fordham University, where he has taught since 1977. He has written articles on New York State-New York City relations, interest-group politics and the delivery of health care to the elderly. He has lived, with his family, on the Upper West Side of Manhattan since 1978.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bargains on travel may be a silver lining for hard times. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANK FRANKLIN II/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); POLITICS (86%); CITIES (85%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (75%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); CRUISES (70%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (66%); CITY GOVERNMENT (66%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (60%); WRITERS (60%); LAYOFFS (57%); AGING (50%)

COMPANY: TRAVELZOO INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (57%)

TICKER: TZOO (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (57%); NAICS541840 MEDIA REPRESENTATIVES (57%); SIC7313 RADIO, TELEVISION, & PUBLISHERS' ADVERTISING REPRESENTATIVES (57%); SIC4729 ARRANGEMENT OF PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2009



61 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: Saving Runaways, With Law and Love

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Recession Drives Surge in Youth Runaways'' and ''For Runaways on the Street, Sex Buys Survival'' (''Running in the Shadows'' series, front page, Oct. 26 and 27):
 I would like to add a few points to your excellent articles about runaways. 
 While it may be true that ''most of the estimated 1.6 million children who run away each year return home within a week,'' many of the children who do stay on the streets remain there for years, and many of them will die on the streets or become institutionalized. 
 You mention ''girls'' when referring to child prostitutes. As a man who was arrested at 11 years old for prostitution, I know that this issue does not discriminate by gender. Many pedophiles and predators do not care as much about the gender of the victim as the age. 
 Though the system now identifies children as ''victims,'' it still treats them as criminals. There is much to be done to help these kids beyond criminalizing them.
 Government agencies -- foster care, human services and criminal justice -- are not currently capable of helping and inspiring these children off the streets. Nonprofit organizations, many of which are closing because of the recession, and caring individuals will be the lifeline for these kids. These organizations are responsible for saving my life after being on the street from age 10 to 22.
 If we all just dedicate a little of ourselves by sharing our worlds, we can help inspire and mentor these kids emotionally, academically and socially. Many are damaged and have years of spiritual healing ahead of them.
 But you will find that we just want to be loved -- and to have a secure home and a loving family.
 Justin Early New York, Oct. 27, 2009
 The writer is a former board member of the National Network for Youth and the author of ''StreetChild: An Unpaved Passage.''
 To the Editor:
 What you describe as ''survival sex'' in ''For Runaways on the Street, Sex Buys Survival'' is actually human trafficking, a serious federal crime that involves the buying and selling of human beings -- in this case, girls. 
 Under the New York State Human Trafficking Act, the purchasers of children in the sex trade, rarely arrested and a category of exploiters who are generally invisible and escape scrutiny, could be charged with a felony. 
 In addition to taking cues from the groundbreaking programs in Dallas for runaways vulnerable to pimps and traffickers, New York law enforcement must at least begin to use its own anti-trafficking law, especially the provisions on demand, if it is serious about tackling the brutal exploitation of girls and women for profit by traffickers, pimps and ''johns.'' Taina Bien-Aime
 Executive Director Equality Now New York, Oct. 27, 2009
 To the Editor:
 There is no question the troubled economy has resulted in a growing number of homeless youth. This year alone the L.A. Gay and Lesbian Center has experienced a 30 percent increase in the number of young people turning to us for housing, food, clothing and other support services.
 But the article doesn't mention a startling fact -- a hugely disproportionate number of homeless youth identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender.
 According to a 2006 report by the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, 20 percent to 40 percent of homeless young people are lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender.
 In addition to the challenges all homeless youths experience, these youths often have the additional burden of rejection not only from their family, but also from society, simply because of their sexual orientation or gender identity.
 Curtis F. Shepard Director Children, Youth and Family Services L.A. Gay and Lesbian Center Los Angeles, Oct. 26, 2009
 To the Editor:
 It is important to note that not all runaways come from severely dysfunctional or violent households. In fact, most do not. Many families are simply unable to effectively cope with stress and conflict, and the child sees no alternative but to run. 
 At the Bridge, we have seen tens of thousands of runaways in our 39 years, and most want to return home. In fact, the most common desire expressed is for a caring adult in their lives that they can trust. Usually, that can be found within their family or extended family, but often that means a lot of counseling and support. 
 The problem arises when children in crisis have no safe place to go and end up on the street exposing themselves to the chilling consequences your articles so aptly report. What works are safe places for runaways to go to find not only safety, but also professional counseling and care to help the child and his or her family work through their issues. If home is still not a solution, foster care and other alternatives are considered.
 The federal response to runaway children is woefully inadequate. More federal dollars are spent on abstinence education than on the principal federal program providing crisis shelter, counseling and family reunification.
 Ed Murphy Executive Director The Bridge for Youth Minneapolis, Oct. 27, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ERIK T. JOHNSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROSTITUTION (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SEX TRAFFICKING (89%); CHILD TRAFFICKING (89%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (88%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); WRITERS (78%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (74%); ILLEGAL PROSTITUTION (74%); ARRESTS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); CHILD POVERTY (73%); CRIMINAL LAW (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); FELONIES (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2009



62 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Is It a Park? A Direction? Or Just Home?

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Woodland Park, N.J. 

 BODY:
 or West Paterson, N.J.
 Whatever it's called, this is one place in New Jersey where no one is apathetic about Tuesday's election.
 ''We have to be very careful not to favor either side because we have customers who are very passionate in both directions,'' said Philip Decristina, who works at Dee's Florist, owned by his brother Anthony, in what their business card identifies as West Paterson. ''It's a big drama. It gets very personal, and in this economy you don't want to alienate people.''
 Yes, there is that election to pick New Jersey's next governor. But the real excitement here isn't about Jon S. Corzine, Christopher J. Christie or Christopher J. Daggett. Instead, it's all about what will be the fifth election since 1989 to try to determine the name for this borough of 11,000 or so in Passaic County. 
 For those not keeping score: First came the election in 1989 to change the name to Woodland Park. It failed by more than 1,300 votes. Then came the 1995 election to change the name to West Park. It failed, but by only 156 votes. Then in 2001 came the election to rename it Garret Mountain. It failed by 610 votes. Finally, last year, Woodland Park was given a second try, and it passed by a mere 25 votes.
 As soon as the vote was certified, plans began for the next election. If the West Paterson forces win on Tuesday, it will be the first time in state history that a town reinstated the name it had tossed out.
 It gets confusing. There are signs all over town to Save Our Name, which means voting to throw out the current name and return to the old one. The sign in front of the borough hall reads Woodland Park, but the sign on the street calls it West Paterson. The police cars say Woodland Park, but from the post office to the West Paterson Dental Associates to the West Paterson Boys and Girls Club, to nearly all the road and highway signs, there's a lot more West Paterson than Woodland Park out there. (And then sometimes the mailing address is Little Falls).
 Judy Karp, a retired teacher and co-chairperson of the Woodland Park faction, said the new name reflected the green, hilly nature and rolling parkland of much of the community. 
 ''We're not part of Paterson,'' she said. ''A direction is not a name.''
 BUT since the name-change issue began, a more dominant thought has been the desire of residents to differentiate themselves from Paterson, a booming and prosperous city when the borough was formed in 1914 after breaking away from Little Falls, a struggling and largely poor and minority one now. (On its other side, East Paterson became Elmwood Park in 1973.)
 ''Every time you pick up the paper you read about all the crime taking place there, and it's not occurring here,'' said John P. Herlihy, an organizer of the first vote in 1989. So Carmen Tedeschi, who has lived in town since 1960, said he supported the change. ''You can't rent, you can't sell your home because people think it's in Paterson,'' he said.
 But most of the visible activity and passion seems to be on the other side. Eileen Gilabert has a pro-West Paterson sticker on the mailbox and a Save Our Name sign in the yard. 
 She doesn't like the new name (''To me, it sounds like a cemetery'') and thinks the name change was a betrayal of the town's history.
 ''My father was born and raised here, and he died three years ago at the age of 89,'' she said. ''I think he's flipping over in his grave.''
 The West Paterson forces add that the new name does not accomplish anything. Whatever it's called, the borough will remain next door to Paterson.
 Still, both sides, and the politicians caught between them, are getting a little weary.
 Keith Kazmark, a borough council member running for Passaic county clerk, was heading out to campaign on Friday when asked about the name-change election.
 ''Oh boy, oh boy,'' he groaned, looking stricken. He said the council members have remained neutral on the issue and have phased in the new name -- letterhead, town signs etc. -- cautiously.
 He said their main involvement will be to lobby the State Legislature, starting immediately after Election Day, to set a moratorium -- probably five years after a vote -- on how often towns can vote on name changes.
 ''It's a distraction, and it's not good for the government and not good for the people,'' he said. ''We can't continue to have this Ping-Pong effect, where each year one side or the other is going out and soliciting signatures for next election.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY NAME CHANGES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2009



63 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Soft Real Estate Market Is a Key Ingredient at Brooklyn Brewery

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
Less than two years ago, the Brooklyn Brewery found itself in a bind that had squeezed many companies out of New York. It wanted to expand, but the rapid gentrification of its neighborhood, in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, had pushed rents beyond what it could afford.
 That was before the recession took hold in the city. Now, the brewery is taking advantage of the softer real estate market to grab a bigger chunk of space before it could be snapped up and converted into another hotel, store or apartment building. 
 The brewery's decision to stay put for at least 15 years, bolstered by an $800,000 grant from the state, has been hailed by elected officials as a coup for Brooklyn. Steve Hindy, who started the brewery with a partner in 1987, said the company would spend $6.5 million on its expansion and add 15 workers to its staff of 35.
 ''When the recession hit in, like, August or September last year, all of a sudden the landlords here in Williamsburg were looking much more favorably on us as a long-term tenant,'' Mr. Hindy said. 
 But tenants and property managers called Brooklyn Brewery's new 15-year lease an exception to the continuing trend of industrial operations being pushed out of areas of the city that once were reserved for them.
 Last week, an organization that speaks for manufacturers in the city reported that at least 39 nonindustrial businesses had received permits to operate in seven of the zones that the city designated for industry in 2005. Most of those permits were for budget and boutique hotels, but some were for home-improvement stores, galleries and bowling alleys, including one next to the Brooklyn Brewery.
 Those businesses may liven up blocks that once were packed with warehouses and factories, but they displace manufacturers and other creative industries that provide better-paying jobs to more workers, said Michael Freedman-Schnapp, senior policy associate at the New York Industrial Retention Network, the advocacy group.
 ''Real estate-led economic development creates mostly low-paying service jobs,'' Mr. Freedman-Schnapp said.
 He said nonindustrial uses accounted for more than a quarter of all permits issued in the seven Industrial Business Zones that his group studied. Those uses are permitted in the zones, where residences are prohibited.
 A bill that would require special permits for nonindustrial uses within the industrial business zones has been pending in the City Council for three years, without any support from the mayor's office, Mr. Freedman-Schnapp said.
 A spokeswoman for the city's Department of Small Business Services, Laura Postiglione, challenged the study's conclusions.
 ''The Industrial Business Zones created in 2005 were designed to protect the city's core manufacturing bases from incompatible residential development, and they have,'' Ms. Postiglione said. ''Far more important to the future of manufacturing in New York City than restricting every conceivable commercial use in those areas are the investments of hundreds of millions of dollars we're making to create new manufacturing space in places like the Brooklyn Navy Yard, Hunts Point and Sunset Park.''
 She cited examples of industrial companies the city has helped relocate or expand, including GM Printing, which she said moved its offset-printing operation this year from Manhattan to a 15,000-square-foot space in Long Island City, aided by a $70,000 grant and a break on energy costs.
 Still, other small manufacturers, like Henry Repeating Arms, have been leaving the city in search of less expensive places to operate.
 Henry had been making rifles in a 40,000-square-foot factory in the Gowanus section of Brooklyn for 15 years. A video on the company's Web site still shows its president, Anthony Imperato, saying, ''We take great pride in the fact that Henry rifles are made in Brooklyn, New York.'' 
 They no longer are. Mr. Imperato, who lives in Bay Ridge, moved his company to Bayonne, N.J., last year after searching for a few years for adequate space to buy at a ''reasonable'' price, he said. With some financial help from the State of New Jersey, the company bought a building on three acres in Bayonne for one-third of what it would have cost in Brooklyn, he said.
 ''Our business expanded over the years and we needed more space,'' Mr. Imperato said. ''We looked for three to four years and then gave up. Industrial property owners were asking ridiculously high prices, I believe anticipating that the property might go residential at some point.''
 His company brought about 50 employees to Bayonne from Brooklyn and now employs 107 people, he said.
 In mid-2008, Mr. Hindy said, he faced the same problem that Mr. Imperato described. Sales of Brooklyn Brewery's premium beers, which it cooks up in Williamsburg, were rising steadily, but it had no room to expand its brewhouse. Landlords in the neighborhood were asking as much as $30 a square foot a year in rent, more than triple what the brewery was paying.
 ''They were all hoping to get the next bowling alley or boutique hotel or Whole Foods or a bank,'' Mr. Hindy recalled.
 Indeed, a hotel is being built across the street from the brewery, and the bowling alley-nightclub has opened next door. But the boom that spawned those concerns ended with the implosion of New York's financial industry last year.
 When the market cooled, Mr. Hindy signed new 15-year leases for the brewery and an adjacent building, at an average cost of about $15 a square foot -- significantly higher than he had been paying but only about half of what landlords sought at the peak of the boom -- he said. 
 Neal Dolgin, co-president of Kalmon Dolgin, the real estate company that manages the brewery's warehouse, across the street, said that he believed that Williamsburg and some other industrial areas would continue gentrifying after the recession ends.
 ''Who can afford to manufacture here?'' Mr. Dolgin said. ''With the cost of labor and underlying fixed costs, that's what's driving people out.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Brooklyn Brewery was able to expand its plant in Williamsburg because gentrification there has slowed and rents are falling. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BREWERIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); TRENDS (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); MAYORS (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (72%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); HOME CENTERS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); BOWLING CENTERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2009



64 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Honduran Businesses Still Wait to Heal

BYLINE: By BLAKE SCHMIDT

DATELINE: COPAN, Honduras 

 BODY:
On the morning that the Honduran president was deposed, Flavia Cueva roused a wedding party of 30 and whisked them out of her jungle eco-resort. Still hazy from the previous night's party, which involved a mariachi band, fireworks and a shaman-led wedding ceremony held above ancient Mayan limestone ruins, the partyers made a hasty exit. 
 For Ms. Cueva, a Honduran-American who has spent the past decade turning her parents' cattle ranch into a getaway featuring yoga classes, horseback rides and Mayan food for a modern palate, the political turmoil in Honduras has had a calamitous effect on bookings. 
 ''It's taken me 10 years to put this place on the map, one step at a time,'' she said, sipping wine on her veranda overlooking the ruins at Copan. ''This has been the kiss of death.'' 
 Whether a deal reached last week between the ousted president, Manuel Zelaya, and his de facto successor, Roberto Micheletti, resolves the four-month-old political standoff remains to be seen, but the economic damage has already been done, isolating a country that had only recently drawn international investment and tourism. 
 The pristine beaches and Mayan ruins of Honduras brought 1.5 million tourists to the country last year. But arrivals have dropped by as much as 70 percent since Mr. Zelaya's ouster on June 28, according to Ricardo Martinez, who served as tourism minister in the Zelaya government. 
 Honduras was once the realm of American banana barons who overthrew governments to secure better tax treatment. More recently, it was a training and supply base for United States-backed contra rebels fighting a cold war proxy battle in Nicaragua.
 As the cold war ended, Honduras managed to put years of military rule behind it and became known for its relative political stability, drawing foreign investors in recent years to buy beachfront property, start manufacturing businesses and build hotels along the country's Caribbean coast, a world-class spot for scuba diving. The expatriate community has expanded from a core of aid workers, missionaries and military veterans to include cigar-puffing retirees, Spanish language students, entrepreneurs and real estate investors.
 The American Embassy in the capital, Tegucigalpa, says there are 15,000 Americans registered as living in Honduras but as many as 30,000 counting long-term tourists, people with dual nationality and businesspeople living in the country.
 Mr. Zelaya's removal and the international condemnation it has drawn have managed to isolate the country again. Foreign business owners in Honduras have tended to support Mr. Micheletti, who replaced Mr. Zelaya, even while acknowledging that sending Mr. Zelaya into exile may have been illegal. But they agree wholeheartedly that the country's turmoil is hurting their wallets. 
 Chris and Will Haughey, brothers from St. Louis, picked Honduras as the place to open a socially conscious certified wood toy factory because of its timber-rich jungles, tax-free manufacturing areas and tariff exemptions under the Central American Free Trade Agreement, a trade deal with the United States. Their idea was to market their magnetic wood block sets to business executives as desk toys and to parents as an eco-friendly alternative to Legos. Despite the country's bureaucracy, they considered it a more politically stable place than neighboring Nicaragua or El Salvador. 
 But they had not factored the ouster of a president into their business plans. 
 Chris Haughey, a Stanford-educated engineer who fell for Honduras while volunteering at a shelter for street boys, spent a recent morning negotiating with a group of rock-wielding Zelaya supporters to let him through their roadblock on his way to work. As the brothers tried to meet orders before the holidays, they lost workdays as government curfews kept their employees holed up in their homes. 
 ''It's just frustrating,'' said Mr. Haughey, who abandoned his goal to open the plant in August as the political meltdown in June added new delays to Honduras's already formidable red tape. He now says he will try to open next month. 
 Daniel O'Connor, an investment consultant who moved to Honduras from Florida to manage one of the capital's most lavish hotels in the 1990s, the Honduras Maya, said the political turmoil added insult to injury for investors already crunched by the economic slump. 
 ''It's the perfect storm,'' he said. A handful of luxury resorts on the islands off the Honduran coast have halted construction since Mr. Zelaya was removed, he said, blaming news media coverage of protest violence for making the country appear to be a war zone. 
 ''My friends back home are surprised we're not hunkered down with six months of food supply and weapons,'' he said, sipping a rum and Coke at the Intercontinental on a recent afternoon. A fierce critic of Mr. Zelaya, Mr. O'Connor had set up an information center at the hotel to provide journalists with information to justify the leader's removal. 
 Business owners are hopeful that the deal reached Thursday, which may return Mr. Zelaya to office before the end of his term in January and which still must be approved by the country's Congress, will restore a sense of normalcy here.
 But any economic rebound has not happened yet. Ms. Cueva, the eco-resort owner, has been laying off workers and cutting back the hours of those who remain. To reduce costs, she is unplugging freezers and limiting travels to town for supplies. 
 ''I do believe this is bigger than all of us,'' Ms. Cueva said, lighting a cigarette on a Guatemalan candle as the Copan ruins below faded into dusk. ''This is a 21st-century socialist revolution.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLD WAR (89%); BEACHES (87%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); RESORTS (78%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (73%); TOURISM (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (71%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (71%); COASTAL AREAS (71%); YOGA (70%); WATER SPORTS (66%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (66%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (66%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (66%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (66%); WAR & CONFLICT (64%); VETERANS (63%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (62%); SCUBA DIVING (61%); CITIZENSHIP (50%)

PERSON: MANUEL ZELAYA (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONDURAS (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NICARAGUA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2009



65 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: Fiscal Blood on the Tracks

BYLINE: By MITCHELL L. MOSS. 
Mitchell L. Moss is a professor of urban policy and planning at New York University's Wagner Graduate School of Public Service. He is also a consultant to energy companies.

 BODY:
LIKE a tsunami that follows an undersea earthquake, collateral damage from the collapse of credit markets is about to strike the millions of daily transit riders in America's biggest cities. Public transit agencies in cities including New York, Atlanta, San Francisco and Washington are under pressure to surrender $2 billion from their budgets because financial institutions have spotted a chance to gain a windfall from complicated tax-shelter deals known as ''leasebacks.'' 
 In the heady 1990s, the federal government encouraged these leaseback deals as a quick fix for budget problems. Transit agencies like New York's Metropolitan Transportation Authority would sell their railcars and other equipment to banks, which would then lease them back to the agencies. 
 Leasebacks appeared to promise that everyone would emerge a winner. Banks -- including many that later took federal bailout money like Bank of America and Wells Fargo were able to cash in on substantial tax deductions through the transactions. The transit companies, which were paid with a portion of those tax savings, could use the cash to modernize their systems and make safety improvements. 
 Alas, as with any quick fix, the deals have set off a cascade of problems. 
 First, while the Internal Revenue Service declared the deals illegal in 2004, it allowed previously completed deals to remain on the books. And the situation exploded last fall when financial markets crashed and the third-party insurers chosen by the transit agencies as guarantors of the transactions lost their triple-A credit ratings (in many cases, the insurer was A.I.G.). This placed the transit agencies in ''technical default'' on the leases, even though they hadn't missed any payments.
 In turn, many of the banks have decided to take advantage of these ''technical defaults'' to reap a windfall in early-termination payments. By rights, they can immediately demand from transit authorities an amount equal to all their anticipated tax savings. These can run to hundreds of millions of dollars -- New Jersey Transit alone is on the hook for $150 million.
 Virtually all major city and state public transit systems in the country have at least one of these deals still on the books. If they have to make these payments, commuters will bear the brunt, in terms of higher fares and deferred maintenance. 
 A solution exists, however. Senator Robert Menendez, a Democrat from New Jersey, and Representative John Lewis, a Georgia Democrat, have proposed a bill that would levy a 100 percent excise tax on any lump-sum payments demanded by the banks. This would effectively force the financial industry to stop demanding default penalties and go back to the old lease payment schedule -- at no cost to taxpayers. 
 As the nation climbs out of one of its toughest economic crises ever, we cannot be lulled into thinking the problems caused by imprudent financing techniques have vanished. Yes, the transit groups were unwise to get involved in the leasebacks, but that's no reason to let banks continue to exploit loopholes in them at the expense of transit riders. Congress must act to protect commuters and taxpayers from this insidious legacy of a careless period in American finance. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INSURANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); TAX AUTHORITIES (76%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (76%); TRAINS (73%); INCOME TAX (72%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (71%); EXCISE TAX (71%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (69%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: BOB MENENDEZ (55%); JOHN LEWIS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2009



66 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 185 words

HEADLINE: Afterschool Programs in New York

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''Home Alone'' (editorial, Oct. 20) was a timely reminder that afterschool programs are making a profound and measurable impact on the lives of millions of young people throughout the nation. 
 I am proud to note that the ''America After 3'' study cited in your editorial ranked New York State third in its ''Top 10 States for Afterschool'' list. The state's growth is significantly driven by New York City's Out-of-School Time initiative, started by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who has increased the O.S.T. budget to $110.7 million in 2010 from $46.4 million in 2006.
 We anticipate serving more than 150,000 young people over the current school year through our coordinated system of afterschool programs. But despite the growth of our system, the current economic environment means that more parents and guardians are seeking high-quality afterschool programs for their children. 
 We look forward to partnering with leaders in Washington to expand our nation's afterschool system.
 Jeanne B. Mullgrav Commissioner, Department of Youth and Community Development New York, Oct. 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (90%); CHILDREN (78%); BUDGETS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2009



67 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: On the Block: Traditional Offerings, Bargain Prices

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
The images splashed across the pages of this fall's auction catalogs are as familiar as they are telling: Degas dancers and Pissarro landscapes; Picasso portraits and Warhol dollar bills. All are well-known paintings and drawings by tried-and-true artists carrying estimates as low as sellers are willing to go. 
 In the year since the worldwide recession devastated the art market, prices have tumbled, collectors have retreated and auction houses have instituted layoffs. And now Sotheby's, Christie's and Phillips de Pury are tiptoeing carefully. When the two weeks of big fall auctions start Tuesday evening, buyers will find traditional paintings, sculptures and drawings intended to appeal to today's more conservative tastes. Gone are the lucrative financial incentives like guarantees (a minimum sum offered to a seller regardless of the outcome of a sale) that were regularly doled out when times were good. Gone too are extravagant parties and lavish catalogs the size of telephone books. 
 Prices are also a lot lower. Last season many paintings carried estimates in the tens of millions of dollars, though the majority didn't sell. Sticker shock is no longer an issue. The most expensive works carry a high estimate of $12 million. ''It's a more considered market,'' said Tobias Meyer, who is in charge of Sotheby's contemporary art department worldwide. ''People now think carefully about what they buy and how much they are willing spend.''
 Prices are also lower because there aren't many blockbuster artworks on the market. There were none in the few estate properties that were up for grabs recently, and collectors who don't have to sell are, for the most part, holding on to their art as they gauge price levels. 
 This season's offerings reflect what have jokingly been called the three D's: death, divorce and debt. Sellers include the Merce Cunningham Trust, which administers the rights to the work of the choreographer and dancer who died in July; the newsprint magnate Peter Brant, whose divorce has been tabloid fodder; and Matthias Rickenbach, a Swiss lawyer indicted in a tax evasion case in August. 
 Putting together the sales has been tough, auction house executives admit. ''Without guarantees it's been all about relationships and creativity,'' Mr. Meyer said. 
 As often happens, the work of an artist who has recently been the subject of a museum exhibition suddenly surfaces at auction. It is no coincidence that a Kandinsky is being offered on the heels of a career retrospective, seen at the Pompidou Center in Paris in the summer and now at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York. In this case the heirs of Arthur M. Sackler, the American art collector who died in 1987, decided it was the right time to part with a 1932 Kandinsky filled with his abstract geometric forms. It is expected to bring $6 million to $8 million at Sotheby's on Wednesday.
 Perhaps the buzz around ''Pop Life, Art in a Material World,'' a show that opened last month at the Tate Modern in London, has something to do with the number of Warhols and other Pop artists up for sale. The undisputed star at Sotheby's postwar sale on Nov. 11 -- and what may well be the hottest work of the season -- is Warhol's ''200 One Dollar Bills,'' a 1962 painting from his seminal first series of silk-screens. A private European collector is selling the work, which was once part of the celebrated collection of Robert C. Scull, the taxi tycoon and Pop and Minimalist collector who died in 1986. That year the seller bought the painting from a Sotheby's auction of Scull's estate for $385,000, at the time a record price for Warhol at auction. Now it is expected to fetch $8 million to $12 million. 
 Mr. Brant is also selling a Warhol. ''Tunafish Disaster,'' a 1963 painting from the ''Death and Disaster Series,'' is being offered at Christie's on Nov. 10 with an estimate of $6 million to $8 million. In addition Mr. Brant is selling a 1983 six-panel painting by Jean-Michel Basquiat, ''Brother Sausage.'' Christie's experts believe it could bring $9 million to $12 million. 
 Tuesday night's sale of Impressionist and modern art at Christie's is perhaps the weakest of the season. ''It's been a struggle,'' said Conor Jordan, head of Christie's Impressionist and modern art department in New York. Among the highlights are traditional Impressionist works like an 1896 Degas pastel of a dancer rubbing her feet, which comes from an unidentified Japanese collector and is expected to sell for $7 million to $9 million. An 1873 panoramic landscape by Pissarro is estimated at $3.5 million to $4.5 million. It is being sold by the London collector Lord Harris of Peckham, chairman of Carpetright, a floor covering company. 
 There is dealer property too, like Mondrian's ''Composition II, With Red, 1926'' that other dealers say is from the Nahmads, a family that runs galleries in London and New York. They bought the abstract canvas at Christie's in London five years ago for $2.9 million and are now hoping to get $4.5 million to $6.5 million. 
 Sotheby's sale on Wednesday night is bigger and the material is stronger. One of the most important sellers that night is offering works described in the catalog as property from ''an important European collection.'' That collection, experts familiar with the lots say, is Mr. Rickenbach's and includes canvases by Bonnard and Modigliani, Degas and Corot. There is also a Kees van Dongen image of a half-nude Arab boy, inspired by a trip he took to North Africa in 1910. It is estimated at $7 million to $10 million, one of the most expensive works of the evening. 
 Another big-ticket item at Sotheby's is a Giacometti sculpture, ''L'Homme Qui Chavire,'' conceived in 1950 and cast a year later. It is being sold by S. I. Newhouse Jr., the publishing magnate who owns Conde Nast, another business that has recently undergone layoffs. The $8 million to $12 million estimate may seem high, but the Giacometti has been unsuccessfully offered for sale privately by both Christie's and the Gagosian Gallery for nearly twice that estimate. Experts say that the auction process will help sort out prices for Giacomettis. 
 Christie's has made some estimates in its postwar and contemporary art sale on Nov. 10 purposely low. It is selling several gems that once belonged to Cunningham and John Cage, his partner in life and work who died in 1992. They include ''Dancers on a Plane,'' a cross-hatch canvas by Jasper Johns that is estimated at $1.5 million to $2 million. Paintings by Mr. Johns have sold privately for as much as $80 million. 
 Brett Gorvy, a head of Christie's postwar and contemporary art department, explained his firm's approach this season: ''We have consciously stayed away from young artists who either have not yet been tested or whose prices have already got way too high.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 3, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about major art auctions in New York this week and next misidentified one of the sellers said to be offering works at Sotheby's sale of Impressionist and Modern art on Wednesday night. He is Louis Reijtenbagh, a Dutch financier -- not Matthias Rickenbach, a Swiss lawyer.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Giacometti's ''L'Homme Qui Chavire,'' a big-ticket item at Sotheby's.
Kees van Dongen's 1910 ''Jeune Arabe'' is being offered at Sotheby's on Wednesday night.(C1)
 Warhol's ''200 One Dollar Bills'' (1962), from his first series of silk-screens, is the star of Sotheby's postwar sale on Nov. 11.(PHOTOGRAPHS FROM SOTHEBY'S)(C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); PAINTING (90%); DANCERS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (77%); SCULPTURE (77%); ART COLLECTING (77%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); LAYOFFS (71%); CONSERVATISM (69%); INDICTMENTS (65%); TAX FRAUD (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (50%) NEW YORK, USA (50%) FRANCE (50%); UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2009



68 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL NOTEBOOK; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: Memphis

BYLINE: By VERLYN KLINKENBORG

 BODY:
If I had to name the best short story in the form of a song lyric, I suspect the winner would be Chuck Berry's ''Memphis, Tennessee,'' first released as a B-side in 1959. Lately, it has been haunting me -- the metrical precision of the lyrics, its emotional realism and, of course, the revelation in the penultimate line. You know the one: that this is a father's mournful love song to his daughter, Marie, who is only 6 years old. 
 What I really find myself listening to is Chuck Berry the sociologist of incredible economy. It's the open-ended plea to that disembodied personage, ''Long-distance information.'' It's the household where uncles write messages on the wall. It's the geographical precision of Marie's home, ''high up on a ridge, just a half a mile from the Mississippi bridge.'' Undercutting it all is the very hopelessness of the singer's plea.
The version I know best is the one Johnny Rivers recorded, live, at the Whisky a Go Go in West Hollywood. It reached No. 2 on the charts in July 1964. In some ways, it best captures the internal tension of the song. He plays it bright and clear. His guitar rings through the bridge and chunks away in the verse. His Louisiana twang adds its own geography to the lyric -- just listen to the way he sings ''ridge.'' Behind it all are the handclaps of a joyful audience. For the story of a shattered man, this is an incredibly happy song. 
 ''Memphis, Tennessee'' is also a reminder of how much country there was in Chuck Berry's rock 'n' roll. Just listen to the version recorded by Buck Owens and the Buckaroos in 1965. The swing in Johnny Rivers's version has gone stiff-legged and angular. The melodic line has been straightened by the harmony of Owens and his guitarist, Don Rich. And yet it's glorious, a country plaint closer, in many ways, to the original. 
 I'm no longer surprised by Marie being 6 years old. But her ''hurry home drops'' do still surprise me, every time. I wonder even now about the operator on the other end of that connection, and the sequel. I like to think that, in the end, the call was placed and a happy ending found, if only in joint custody. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); POP & ROCK (73%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (71%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (90%) TENNESSEE, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2009



69 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Accounts, People & Miscellany

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Accounts
 United Parcel Service, Atlanta, chose Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, New York, part of WPP, to handle its worldwide account, with spending estimated at $200 million. The assignment had been divided among various agencies that included the Martin Agency, Richmond, Va., part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, for work in the United States, and several that are part of another Interpublic unit, the McCann Worldgroup, for work in other countries. 
 Barclays Global Investors, San Francisco, part of BlackRock, named the San Francisco offices of two agencies that are part of the McCann Worldgroup -- McCann Erickson Worldwide and MRM Worldwide -- to handle the iShares account in the United States. Spending under BlackRock, which acquired the company from Barclays Bank, could be increased to as much as $60 million to $70 million, AdAge.com reported. The assignment had been divided between Venables Bell & Partners, San Francisco, for advertising, which will now be handled by McCann Erickson, and Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, part of WPP, for relationship marketing, which will now be handled by MRM. The McCann Worldgroup is part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
 Vanguard Group, Malvern, Pa., selected Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners, New York, part of MDC Partners, as its agency of record for Vanguard in the United States. The assignment, with spending estimated at $50 million, had been handled by Y&R Brands, New York, part of WPP.
 Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Wash., chose the Martin Agency, Richmond, Va., and a unit, Collins Design, as the first agency of record for the new Microsoft stores. Two stores have been opened so far, in Scottsdale, Ariz., and Mission Viejo, Calif. Spending has not been determined. Martin, which is part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, plans to open an office in Seattle to serve Microsoft and another new client, Expedia, Bellevue, Wash.
 Beam Global Spirits and Wine, Deerfield, Ill., part of Fortune Brands, and its agency, Energy BBDO, Chicago, decided to part ways, they said in a statement, and Beam will place in review the assignment to create campaigns for Jim Beam bourbon and Canadian Club whisky. Energy BBDO -- which is the Chicago office of BBDO North America, part of the BBDO Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group -- handled Jim Beam since 2003 and Canadian Club since 2007. Billings were not disclosed.
 People
 Duncan Miller, executive creative director on the Apple account at the TBWA Media Arts Lab, Los Angeles, was promoted to chief creative officer. He assumes those duties from Lee Clow, who continues as chairman and global director at TBWA Media Arts as well as chief creative officer at TBWA Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group. TBWA Media Arts is the unit of TBWA Worldwide that handles the Apple account.
 Miscellany
 In another sign that the advertising industry's downturn may have reached bottom, Martin Sorrell, chief executive at WPP, said in a statement that ''conditions are less worse, reflecting no Armageddon'' for marketing communications. However, ''confidence remains fragile,'' said Mr. Sorrell, whose statement came in conjunction with the release of WPP's third-quarter financial report. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (76%); CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT (74%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (72%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (67%)

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (98%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (95%); MCCANN WORLDGROUP (93%); WPP PLC (92%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (85%); MICROSOFT CORP (82%); BEAM GLOBAL SPIRITS & WINE INC (82%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (58%); BARCLAYS GLOBAL INVESTORS NA (57%); VENABLES BELL & PARTNERS LLC (56%); MDC PARTNERS INC (55%); VANGUARD GROUP INC (55%); BEAM INC (53%); BBDO NORTH AMERICA (52%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (98%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (92%); WPP (LSE) (92%); OMC (NYSE) (85%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (82%); UPS (NYSE) (58%); MDZ.A (TSX) (55%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (55%); BEAM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (98%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (98%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (98%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (95%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (92%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (82%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (82%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (82%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (82%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (82%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (58%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS551114 CORPORATE, SUBSIDIARY & REGIONAL MANAGING OFFICES (53%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS339920 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS337110 WOOD KITCHEN CABINET & COUNTERTOP MANUFACTURING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (88%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2009



70 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: Geithner Laments the Deficit, But Demurs on Tax Increases

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner acknowledged Sunday that the federal deficit was too high but said the priorities now are economic growth and job creation.
 Asked repeatedly on ''Meet the Press'' on NBC whether that meant taxes would rise, Mr. Geithner avoided providing specifics. He did say President Obama is committed to dealing with the deficit in a way that would not add to the tax burden of people making less than $250,000 a year. 
 The White House has not decided how to reduce the deficit, Mr. Geithner said.
 ''Right now we're focused on getting growth back on track,'' he said on the Sunday broadcast. He acknowledged that the economic recovery, while positive, has been shaky and uneven.
 ''A lot of damage was caused by this crisis. It's going to take some time for us to grow out of this. It could be a little choppy,'' he said. 
 Mr. Geithner said a bright spot in the recovery was the banking system.
 Mr. Geithner said that just one year ago, economic activity came to a standstill as major financial institutions shut down because of a lack of liquidity.
 Even though 115 banks have failed so far this year, Mr. Geithner said there has been a ''dramatic improvement in confidence,'' with private capital back in the system. He said large businesses are now able to borrow again.
 But Mr. Geithner said more needed to be done to assist small businesses, adding that the administration was working to help open up credit to them.
 After financial institutions were widely blamed for assuming too much risk and bringing the economy to the brink of collapse, Mr. Geithner said, a concern now was that they were being too timid.
 ''The big risk we face now is that banks are going to overcorrect and not take enough risk,'' he said. ''We need them to take a chance again on the American economy. That's going to be important to recovery.''
 John Boehner of Ohio, a House Republican leader, citing the growing unemployment rate, said Sunday that the president's economic stimulus program has done nothing but increase the size of government. 
 ''Business people are afraid to invest in their business, afraid to grow their business, because they don't know what's going to happen next,'' Mr. Boehner said on ''State of the Union'' on CNN.
 Unemployment hit a 26-year high of 9.8 percent in September, and the October report, due Friday, could show it topping 10 percent.
 ''Unemployment is worse than almost everybody expected,'' Mr. Geithner said. ''But growth is back a little more quickly, a little stronger, than people thought.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (79%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); TAX LAW (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); BANK FAILURES (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (64%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%); POLITICAL PARTIES (60%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (92%); JOHN BOEHNER (57%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2009



71 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: Neil Simon Flop on Broadway May Be Case of Missing 'Wow'

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
Neil Simon was the crossover comedy king of Broadway and Hollywood for three decades, beginning when ''Barefoot in the Park'' and three other major shows overlapped in New York in the 1960s.
 But comedy is changing on Broadway, and on Sunday one of Mr. Simon's most-produced plays in the last 25 years, ''Brighton Beach Memoirs,'' became one of the biggest commercial flops on Broadway in recent memory. It closed a week after it opened, shocking many in the theater world, not least the writer himself.
''I'm dumbfounded,'' Mr. Simon, 82, who has won a Pulitzer and three Tony Awards, said in an interview. ''After all these years, I still don't get how Broadway works or what to make of our culture.'' 
 What went wrong with ''Brighton Beach Memoirs'' is a case study in success and failure on Broadway today. There were no big stars like Jude Law in the current commercial hit ''Hamlet,'' there was no marketing campaign that framed the Simon play as a can't-miss theatrical event, and there was no wow factor that brought the period piece to life, like the breakneck pacing of the popular farce ''Boeing-Boeing'' last year. But the failure also reflects America's evolving sense of humor and taste. 
 Broadway shows rarely close a week or less after opening. Those that do -- like ''Glory Days'' in 2008 or ''Carrie'' in 1988 -- were usually killed by reviews that were far worse than those for ''Brighton Beach Memoirs.'' It actually received good reviews, but the play was shuttered because people, for whatever reason, did not want to see the Simon show about a Depression-era family laughing through the tears. The show cost $3 million to produce but never grossed more than $125,000 a week in ticket sales during preview performances -- or 15 percent of the maximum possible -- an amount that did not even cover running costs.
 As for revivals of acclaimed American works like ''Brighton Beach Memoirs,'' they are hardly out of fashion with Broadway audiences. ''South Pacific,'' ''Hair'' and ''West Side Story'' are doing well, though musicals are stronger sellers than plays.
 ''There will always be an audience for a well-done revival of a great musical, but reviving a period-piece play now takes a special alchemy,'' said Andre Bishop, artistic director of Lincoln Center Theater, home to ''South Pacific.'' ''A play revival needs to have a strong vision and to give people a reason why they should see it. What's strange is that everyone I know thought this 'Brighton Beach' was wonderful.'' 
 Ben Brantley, the Times theater critic, praised the spontaneity of director David Cromer's production and ''Mr. Simon's snappy, streamlined dialogue.''
 Mr. Simon was a forefather of situation comedy writers, and his scripts for stage and screen were embraced by actors like Robert Redford, Jane Fonda, Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau. But sitcoms have given way to reality shows like ''American Idol,'' one-liners to the sardonic humor of ''The Office,'' and the heavily plotted comedy of Mr. Simon's film ''California Suite'' to the animated wit of ''Up'' and the fratty banter of ''The Hangover,'' two of the summer's biggest hits.
 ''American sensibilities about comedy change so rapidly, especially in the cultural centers on the East Coast and West Coast where people are always looking for the next new style of humor, whereas Neil Simon's brand of humor is pretty unchanging,'' said Susan Koprince, author of ''Understanding Neil Simon'' and a professor of English at the University of North Dakota.
 Mr. Simon's signature has always been the well-written, straightforward punch line, but new and revived comedies have done best on Broadway lately when they have been dark, satiric and outrageously narcissistic. The recent revivals of the plays ''Boeing-Boeing,'' ''Speed-the-Plow'' and ''The Norman Conquests'' took flight because of fast-paced timing but also had frissons of fear and panic just beneath the surface humor. A mix of comedy and pain also proved potent for the original play ''August: Osage County,'' while two other new plays, ''The Lieutenant of Inishmore'' and ''The Little Dog Laughed,'' were sharp satires of political terrorism and Hollywood.
 While reality shows like ''American Idol'' and forensic dramas like ''NCIS'' dominate television today, popular comedies like the traditionally plotted sitcom ''Two and a Half Men'' and the character-driven ''Desperate Housewives'' also share sharply written dialogue and recognizable modern characters like those found in ''God of Carnage.'' 
 ''It's clear from the ascendancy of certain types of comedy, like the trend exemplified by Judd Apatow, Seth Rogen, Steve Carell, 'The 40-Year-Old Virgin,' 'Knocked Up,' that what audiences are seeking in humor is getting more raw and edgy than Simon's work,'' said Matthew Maguire, a playwright who is director of the theater program at Fordham University. 
 To that end, if ticket sales before the critics' reviews were any measure, Mr. Simon struck many people as passe. Most tickets to ''Brighton Beach Memoirs'' were sold at discounts like the TKTS booths. (Producers release bulks of tickets at a discount when they fail to sell at full price.) The average ticket price for ''Brighton Beach'' was only $21.32 for the most recent week with available data. (The average ticket price for ''Hamlet'' was $104.01 for the comparable week.)
 Popular culture has also developed a bigger-is-better, entertainment-as-event attitude that runs counter to the ethos of the typical Simon play. Stadium-arena rock concerts, the ''Harry Potter'' and ''Twilight'' book and film series, the days-long cable news coverage of Michael Jackson's death, the ever-increasing punch of season finales on television dramas -- these do not have equivalents in the Simon canon and are not staples of Broadway.
 The producers of ''Brighton Beach'' hoped it too would become an event once the play was running in repertory with its companion by Mr. Simon, ''Broadway Bound,'' about the same family a decade later. Two earlier plays in the past few years succeeded in part because they pursued that strategy. 
 The biggest commercial theatrical ''event'' on Broadway recently was last season's revival of ''The Norman Conquests,'' a trilogy of British comedies with interlocking plots and characters; all three opened at the same time, delighting critics, though it was not ultimately profitable. The ''Brighton Beach'' producers decided to open ''Broadway Bound'' a month later, Mr. Cromer said, in order to give ''Brighton Beach'' a chance to build an audience and to spread out the financial obligations.
 ''Brighton Beach'' may have suffered by forgoing another traditional strategy of popular entertainment: It had no big stars. The two plays, based loosely on Mr. Simon's family, were to have largely the same cast, led by the stage and television veteran Laurie Metcalf. The producers and director said it was necessary to cast strong actors for parts that require dramatic and comic range and that can edge into ethnic stereotype. 
 ''If you want a star, your options are often narrowed in finding a perfect person for the part,'' Mr. Cromer said in an interview.
 Mr. Simon also found himself up against a bevy of Broadway plays and an economy in which theatergoers are being choosy about $100-a-seat shows. Some commenters on The Times ArtsBeat blog (artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com) said this weekend that Mr. Simon simply was not the can't-miss ticket he once was.
 ''Too soon for Neil Simon plays to be classified as classics and too late for them to be seen as relevant,'' wrote Spence Halperin, a social worker in New York City. ''Try again in 15 years.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The cast of the revival of ''Brighton Beach Memoirs,'' a Neil Simon play that closed after a week at the Nederlander Theater. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Neil Simon (pg.A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (89%); FILM GENRES (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (74%); WRITERS (70%); CASE STUDIES (69%); TICKET SALES (66%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (52%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (54%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Brighton Beach Memoirs (Play); South Pacific (Play)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



72 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (13, 49) CIVILIAN CONSERVATION CORPS In March 1933, just two months into his first term, President Franklin D. Roosevelt sent legislation to Congress intended to provide relief for one in four unemployed American workers through the conservation of natural resources. Over the next decade more than three million young men went to work in the nation's forests and parks, planting trees, building flood barriers, fighting fires and maintaining roads and trails. Corps workers lived like enlisted military personnel in camps and received $30 per month, $25 of which they were required to send to their families. This ''American Experience'' presentation, above, combines archival images with personal accounts from corps veterans to tell the story of this New Deal experiment.
 7 A.M. (ABC) GOOD MORNING AMERICA The cast of ''Ally McBeal'' reunites. 
 4 P.M. (NBC); 8 P.M. (55) THE ELLEN DeGENERES SHOWJim Carrey, right, talks about playing Scrooge and a menagerie of other characters in Robert Zemeckis's new film version of ''A Christmas Carol.'' Faith Hill discusses her new fragrance. 
 4 P.M. (ABC); 7 P.M. (55) THE OPRAH WINFREY SHOW Fashion experts demonstrate how the right shoe, handbag and accessories can flatter any body type; also, three ways to wear a simple black dress and a bra intervention. 
 7 P.M. (13, 49) THE NEWSHOUR WITH JIM LEHRER Margaret Warner reports all week from Afghanistan.
 7 P.M. (BBC America) BBC WORLD NEWS AMERICA ''How Much Change?,'' a three-night report, examines how President Obama is being perceived at home and abroad, starting in the Middle East. Natalia Antelava visits Beirut and asks residents what they feel the new administration has achieved one year after the election.
 7:30 P.M. (Fox) MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL: WORLD SERIES The New York Yankees play Game 5 against the Philadelphia Phillies at Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia.
 7:30 P.M. (Showtime) POLIWOOD (2009) Barry Levinson directed this documentary, centered on the 2008 Republican and Democratic national conventions, about the role celebrities play in American politics and how their involvement affects public perceptions of candidates and issues. Susan Sarandon, Spike Lee, Ellen Burstyn, Matthew Modine, Josh Lucas and Anne Hathaway weigh in. 
 8 P.M. (CBS) HOW I MET YOUR MOTHER Barney (Neil Patrick Harris) tries to prove that he and Robin (Cobie Smulders, at left with Mr. Harris) are a perfect couple by giving relationship advice to Marshall (Jason Segel), who then has a huge fight with Lily (Alyson Hannigan). In ''Accidentally on Purpose,'' at 8:30, Billie (Jenna Elfman) and Zack (Jon Foster) have their first fight after he surprises her by installing a low-flow toilet.
 9 P.M. (TLC) KATE: HER STORY In this special edition of ''Jon & Kate Plus 8,'' Kate Gosselin talks with Natalie Morales of NBC about her show, the end of her marriage and other no-longer-private family matters.
 10 P.M. (History) STRANGE RITUALS A series devoted to weird traditions, starting with last rites.
 10 P.M. (13, 49) THE PEOPLE V. LEO FRANK In 1913 Mary Phagan, a 13-year-old laborer in an Atlanta pencil factory, was robbed, possibly raped and murdered. Several suspects were arrested, including Jim Conley (played in dramatic sequences by Seth Gilliam), a black janitor, and Leo Frank (Will Janowitz), the factory's Jewish superintendent, Conley's boss and the last person to admit to seeing Phagan alive. This documentary examines the case, in which Frank was found guilty and lynched by outraged citizens, including a former governor and a judge. It also looks at the resulting legacy: the rise of the modern Ku Klux Klan and the Anti-Defamation League.
 10 P.M. (VH1) I WANT TO WORK FOR DIDDY Seems he's never satisfied: Sean Combs puts a second crop of applicants through their paces as he searches for a new personal assistant. 
 10 P.M. (ABC) CASTLE After a rock star is found dead and posed in a scene similar to one in her hit music video, Castle (Nathan Fillion) and Beckett (Stana Katic) find themselves surrounded by obsessed fans, sleazy managers, a jealous band mate and a song with a hidden meaning. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BASEBALL (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (73%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (73%); CHRISTMAS (71%); CELEBRITIES (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (67%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (67%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (67%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (60%); ARMED FORCES (56%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); ELLEN DEGENERES (52%); ANNE HATHAWAY (51%); OPRAH WINFREY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (77%); MIDDLE EAST (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2009



73 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: Small Banks Move In as Giants Falter

BYLINE: By ZACHERY KOUWE

 BODY:
The Texas banker Edward Speed wants his fellow Texans to think small.
 Sensing an opportunity to capitalize on public outrage over big national banks rescued by taxpayer bailouts, Mr. Speed has started a campaign urging Texans to take their cash out of banks like Wells Fargo and turn it over to small homegrown institutions like his, the Texas Dow Employees Credit Union in Lake Jackson near the Gulf Coast.
 His pitch drips with Texas swagger -- ''Real Texans bank locally'' reads one of his ads. ''We respectfully suggest they head on back home and make their profits where they live.'' 
 He started a Web site, bankwithtexans.org, urging people to switch their accounts from ''out-of-state carpetbaggers'' to local institutions that never embraced risky Wall Street investments like credit-default swaps and instead stuck to taking deposits and making old-fashioned loans. 
 Across the country, community banks like Mr. Speed's are trying to tap into the public's outrage over Wall Street greed to lure customers from their big multinational competitors. 
 The overarching message: You can trust us, because we did not cause the crisis and did not need bailouts.
 ''We're pretty convinced that the public is very upset with these big banks, and they don't have much use for them anymore,'' Mr. Speed said in a telephone interview. ''I can't beat Wells Fargo and Bank of America nationally, but I can certainly beat their branch across the street.''
 Of course, 115 small banks have failed since the financial turmoil began last year, and more are expected as loans for commercial real estate begin to falter. But they represent a small fraction of the nation's 8,000 or so community banks. 
 The message is being spread on highway billboards, in local television spots, at town hall meetings and even at professional baseball games. 
 At the Colorado Rockies' first home game of the season, in April, fans at Coors Field witnessed a single-engine propeller plane with a banner in tow. It read: ''This is the closest thing we have to a private jet.'' 
 The ad was commissioned by FirstBank of Colorado, which hired a local marketing firm to design ads that promoted the regional bank's conservative lending practices.
 In Bellingham, Wash., the North Coast Credit Union is running local newspaper ads saying ''Bailouts are for boats'' and ''Why should your bank's C.E.O. get a golden parachute while the rest of the bank nosedives?'' 
 In Indiana, a group of 75 credit unions banded together to buy a radio spot emphasizing ''policies that serve people on your street, not Wall Street.'' Worthington National Bank in Fort Worth suddenly gained $10 million in new deposits after running billboards urging consumers to ''Just Say No to Bailout Banks.'' And Hancock Bank in Gulfport, Miss., posted signs outside its braches over the summer saying ''Bailouts? No thanks.''
 The ads come as public sentiment toward the beleaguered banking industry has reached a particular low point. In a Gallup poll conducted in June, only 18 percent of respondents expressed high confidence in the nation's banking institutions, the lowest since Gallup began conducting the survey in 1979.
 USAA Federal Savings Bank, based in San Antonio, Tex., has perhaps the most visible new marketing campaign, costing $25 million, to lure customers from larger institutions. The campaign, by Campbell-Ewald, a division of the giant ad agency Interpublic Group, includes a variety of ads on radio and television and in print with the message, ''Banks don't need bailouts, people do.''
 ''It's a land grab right now and credit unions and small banks are in a great position to grab market share, and they're using marketing messages to their advantage,'' said Jacob Jegher, a senior analyst at Celent, a consultant to the financial industry. 
 Even credit unions and small private banks, which have competed fiercely against one another for years, are banding together to combat the megabanks. In early August, a group of officials representing more than 300 community banks and credit unions from across the country gathered in a ballroom in Dallas to hear about a new venture to combine their marketing budgets for the campaign. 
 The plan was created by BancVue, a consulting and marketing company for small banks. Its aim is to bring new high-interest, no-fee checking accounts offered by small banks and credit unions nationwide under one brand, called ''Kasasa'' -- a name made up after BancVue conducted extensive consumer marketing tests. BancVue argues that smaller banks, by pooling their marketing resources, can attract deposits from larger institutions. 
 The idea for Kasasa came after customer studies suggested that most people preferred the personal service of a community bank, but were concerned they could not offer the same innovative products, like debit card rewards and name-brand credit cards, as the megabanks, said BancVue's chief executive, Gabriel Krajicek, who is based in Dallas. 
 Persuading a customer to switch banks is difficult. ''It's easier to get a divorce than to change your checking account,'' Mr. Speed, the Texas banker, said. 
 But the recession has provided an opening for small banks to promote their relative stability. According to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the federal agency that insures deposits, banks with less than $1 billion in assets remained the best capitalized in the industry, meaning they have adequate cash to absorb loan defaults. 
 And most smaller banks have continued to extend credit to consumers and small businesses, while big banks like Citigroup continue to cut back on their outstanding loan balances. With the bankruptcy of the CIT Group, one of the biggest small-business lenders in the country, community banks sense even more opportunity to fill the void.
 So far, the campaigns appear to be helping banks attract new customers. According to an analysis by the Independent Community Bankers of America, small banks were the only segment of the industry to show growth in net loans and leases in the second quarter. 
 A pilot program testing Kasasa with 10 community banks over the summer delivered growth rates of 150 percent on new accounts in just two months, according to BancVue. 
 ''It took $4 gasoline to get folks to think about their driving habits,'' Mr. Krajicek said. ''Similarly, it has taken a meltdown of the megabanks and other financial institutions to get consumers really thinking about where they are putting their money, who they can trust and what results they should expect.''
 Even though he cannot attribute any specific gains to his new ad campaign, Mr. Speed says his commercial lending business is already 25 percent higher than he had projected for the entire year.
 Mr. Speed recently hired two bankers after BBVA of Spain bought Compass Bank of Birmingham, Ala., and eliminated the entire commercial lending staff at the branch across the street from his credit union.
 ''It showed their arrogance that they came in here and wiped out the community bankers that have been here for a long time,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FirstBank of Colorado flew this message over a Rockies game at Coors Field in Denver. (pg.B1)
 A resonant message from Worthington National Bank of Fort Worth, echoed by other small banks. (pg.B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); CREDIT UNIONS (89%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (89%); COMMUNITY BANKS (89%); BANK FAILURES (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (77%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (71%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (71%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (70%); RADIO ADVERTISING (70%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); BASEBALL (66%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (66%); INTERVIEWS (64%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (50%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); TEXAS DOW EMPLOYEES CREDIT-UNION (72%); NORTH COAST CREDIT UNION (62%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS522130 CREDIT UNIONS (62%); SIC6062 CREDIT UNIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (73%) TEXAS, USA (99%); COLORADO, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (91%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2009



74 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 SERIES OF BOMBINGS IN IRAQ KILL AT LEAST 12 AND INJURE 50
 A scattering of bombings across Iraq killed at least 12 people and wounded more than 50. The attacks struck Sunni as well as Shiite areas and raised fears of a sustained escalation in violence as American forces withdraw. PAGE A5 
 CLASS IN THE KOREAN DMZ 
 Taesung Elementary is the proudest part of Taesung Freedom Village, the only pocket of land inhabited by South Korean civilians inside the Demilitarized Zone, the heavily armed expanse that separates South and North Korea. PAGE A5 
 TRANS-ATLANTIC TROUBLES
 Nine months into Barack Obama's presidency, trans-Atlantic differences are clouding the unadulterated glee with which most Europeans greeted Mr. Obama. Diplomatic Memo. PAGE A7 
 ISRAELIS ARREST SETTLER
 The Israeli police charged a 37-year-old American immigrant and West Bank settler in an array of killings and terrorist attacks over the last 12 years, including the murders of two Palestinians and the maiming of a 15-year-old boy. PAGE A9 
 HONDURAN BUSINESSES HURT
 Whether a deal reached last week between the ousted Honduran president and de facto successor resolves the four-month standoff remains to be seen, but the economic damage has already been done. PAGE A9 
 National
 PITTSBURGH MAYOR FACES TESTS BEYOND RE-ELECTION
 Though he has yet to turn 30, Mayor Luke Ravenstahl is a force in Pittsburgh politics. If he wins re-election Tuesday as is expected, he will have to cope with a declining population, a shrinking tax base and a troubled pension plan. PAGE A10 
 SEARCH FOR SURVIVORS ENDS
 After searching 644 square miles of ocean, military officials said they did not expect to find survivors among the seven Coast Guard members and two Marines missing since their aircraft collided off the coast of San Diego. PAGE A12 
 6 Bodies in Rapist's Home A12 
 New York
 MAKING A FINAL PUSH
 As Mayoral Vote Nears
 The candidates for New York City mayor delivered last-minute appeals to voters, with Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr. urging New Yorkers to reject an incumbent ''who thinks he's above democracy'' and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg asking for a third term to ''keep making progress.'' PAGE A13
 BISHOP STUMPS FOR POLITICIAN
 In an unusually overt step into politics by a religious leader, the Roman Catholic bishop of Brooklyn has recorded a telephone message urging voters to support Vito Lopez, an assemblyman and the Kings County Democratic boss, whose hand-picked candidate is in a tough race for a City Council seat. PAGE A14
 Business
 WALL STREET'S VENALITY 
 Is Small Banks' Opportunity
 Across the country, community banks are trying to tap into the public's outrage over Wall Street greed to lure customers from their big multinational competitors. The overarching message: You can trust us, because we did not cause the crisis and did not need bailouts. Advertising. PAGE B1
 TAKING AIM AT TV NETWORKS
 In another sign of its growing reliance on original programming, TNT is expected to announce that it will begin showing ''Southland,'' the critically acclaimed but abruptly canceled NBC police drama. It is part of TNT's plan to have three nights of original programming by 2010, in an attempt to directly compete with the broadcast networks. PAGE B6 
 LEARNING TO LOVE THE DVR
 Television network executives have fallen in love with a former tormentor, the digital video recorder, as they have learned that more people seem content to sit through the commercials than networks once thought. PAGE B1
 CHINA'S UPSTART EXCHANGE
 The highly anticipated opening of China's new Nasdaq-style stock exchange is already being seen as a watershed moment for the country's capital markets, providing new opportunities for Chinese investors and an alternative source of financing for upstart companies. PAGE B3
 Arts
 UNVEILING GRAND VISIONS
 For a Faded Boulevard
 ''Intersections: The Grand Concourse Beyond 100'' at the Bronx Museum of Art is the result of a nine-month competition, and focuses on seven visions for the future of the Grand Concourse in the Bronx that range from urban farms to high-tech sound barriers for a nearby freeway. Review by Nicolai Ouroussoff. PAGE C1
 BITE-SIZE GRISHAM
 ''Ford County,'' John Grisham's only short-story collection, is a departure from the grueling work that goes into the construction of his usual fully rigged best sellers, and Janet Maslin writes that the change invigorates him. PAGE C1
 2008 CAMPAIGN, REVISITED
 Two new cable documentaries on the 2008 election -- HBO's ''By the People: The Election of Barack Obama'' and Showtime's ''Poliwood,'' suggest that too much political access may be worse than no access at all. Review by Alessandra Stanley. PAGE C1
 SHOCKING TRIAL'S AFTERMATH
 Neil Genzlinger writes that ''The People v. Leo Frank,'' a PBS documentary that revisits a murder from nearly a century ago surrounding an Atlanta factory superintendent, will unsettle even those already familiar with that ugly piece of history. PAGE C3
 'This Is It' Tops Box Office C2
 Hong Kong Chinese Orchestra C5 
 Sports
 NEW SHARPENING METHOD 
 Skates Into Hockey
 Since last November, a simple innovation that costs next to nothing has become popular among N.H.L. professionals and weekend warriors alike: a skate-sharpening method called the flat-bottom V. 
 FAVRE'S LAMBEAU RETURN
 Brett Favre's return to Lambeau Field -- his first trip as a visiting player, in a Minnesota Vikings uniform that Packers fans quickly have grown to detest -- turned out badly for Green Bay. Favre threw for 244 yards and four touchdowns as Minnesota outlasted a furious second-half effort by the Packers and quarterback Aaron Rodgers to win, 38-26. PAGE D3
 Obituaries
 DON IVAN PUNCHATZ, 73
 His surreal art was splashed on popular horror and science fiction paperbacks, magazines and the first ''Star Wars'' film poster, influencing a generation of illustrators. PAGE A18
 SEYMOUR FROMER, 87
 Along with his wife, Rebecca, he opened a museum in California that came to hold one of the largest collections of Judaica in North America, including archives documenting the history of Jews in the American West. PAGE A18
 MICHAEL GOLDSMITH, 58
 A law professor at Brigham Young University, he battled amyotrophic lateral sclerosis -- Lou Gehrig's disease -- and was honored in Yankee Stadium on July 4 on the 70th anniversary of Gehrig's classic farewell speech. PAGE A18

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (87%); COASTAL AREAS (87%); ELECTIONS (87%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); POPULATION DECLINE (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (77%); SEX OFFENSES (77%); RELIGION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); TERRORISM (73%); COMMUNITY BANKS (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (73%); CITIES (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (64%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (64%); ARMED FORCES (63%); MURDER (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (69%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); ISRAEL (92%); HONDURAS (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2009



75 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: If Fox Is Partisan, It Is Not Alone

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
The Obama White House's decision to challenge Fox News appears driven equally by strategy and frustration. It is also a test case for politicians in both parties.
 That is because partisan fragmentation throughout America's news media and their audiences has grown significantly. Future Republican presidents will have to decide, as Team Obama has, how to buck or accommodate that trend.
 Fox News has attracted the most attention because of its ''fair and balanced'' challenge to its competitors and its success. But the audiences of its competitors have tilted sharply in the other direction. (This reporter is chief Washington correspondent for CNBC and hosts ''The New York Times Special Edition,'' a program on MSNBC.) 
 Press critics worry that the rise of media polarization threatens the foundation of credible, common information that American politics needs to thrive. Will Feltus, a Republican specialist in voter targeting, does not.
 If it complicates the choices facing leaders in Washington, Mr. Feltus argues, it also decentralizes political communication in a way that is both inevitable and healthy in the information age. ''I feel no hand-wringing about it,'' Mr. Feltus said. ''People are smart enough to understand what color filter is over the lens.''
 Roots of a Trend
 The evolution of political news on television, in print and on the Internet has a certain back-to-the-future feel. As the American Revolution approached in the 18th century, wrote William David Sloan and Julie Hedgepeth Williams in the book ''The Early American Press, 1690-1783,'' journalists ''were expected to be partisan -- intensely partisan.''
 Mr. Feltus charted the rising partisanship of television news audiences using data from Scarborough Research, a partnership of the Nielsen Company and Arbitron Inc. 
 In audience surveys from August 2000 to March 2001, Fox News viewers tilted Republican by 44.6 percent to 36.1 percent. More narrowly -- 41.4 percent to 39.4 percent -- so did the audience for MSNBC. The audiences of CNN, Headline News, CNBC and Comedy Central leaned Democratic.
 Four years later, amid the Iraq war and President George W. Bush's re-election campaign, the audience data had shifted. Fox News viewers had become 51 percent Republican and just 30.8 percent Democratic, while MSNBC viewers leaned Democratic by 41.7 percent to 40.4 percent. Viewers of CNN, Headline News, CNBC and Comedy Central grew slightly more Democratic.
 By 2008-9, the network audiences tilted decisively, like Fox's. CNN viewers were more Democratic by 50.4 percent to 28.7 percent; MSNBC viewers were 53.6 percent to 27.3 percent Democratic; Headline News' 47.3 percent to 31.4 percent Democratic; CNBC's 46.9 percent to 32.5 percent Democratic; and Comedy Central's 47.1 to 28.8 percent Democratic.
 Breeding Divisiveness
 Those decade-long trends track deepening partisan passions and decisions by cable news programmers to amplify strong opinions. They help campaign strategists in both parties direct political ads.
 ''It makes it easier to find your voters,'' said a Democratic pollster, Anna Greenberg. Mark Mellman, a strategist for the Democratic presidential nominee, John Kerry, in 2004, found that regular Fox News viewers supported Mr. Bush over Mr. Kerry by 88 percent to 7 percent -- a more lopsided tilt than among gun owners, evangelical Christians or Iraq war supporters. 
 Mr. Mellman also said that the current media environment was a hothouse for political misinformation. The drift of public opinion during Mr. Obama's presidency suggests that news coverage of the health care fight and other controversies has ratcheted up the intensity of sentiment among presidential allies and adversaries alike.
 ''It's one more really powerful force that makes it difficult to get some sort of stable governing majority,'' said a Republican pollster, Bill McInturff, who advised John McCain's 2008 presidential campaign.
 Mr. Obama's aides signaled their unhappiness over that fact by criticizing Fox News as more an arm of the Republican Party than a practitioner of conventional journalism. They also sought to dissuade other news organizations from following Fox's lead in trumpeting stories the White House views as a distraction from their governing priorities.
 The success or failure of that effort may serve as a model for its White House successors. Though polarization among news audiences may be approaching its limit, given the partisan make-up of the electorate, there is no sign it is going away.
 Mr. Feltus predicts the strategy will backfire by offending the subset of Fox viewers who Obama might otherwise be able to lure with his policies on issues such as health care. ''If I were the Obama White House, I'd make my target uninsured people who watch Fox,'' he said, because ''I've got the answer to their problem.''
 Besides, Mr. Feltus observed, winning over the other side starts with working to understand it. ''As a Republican, I sometimes watch Keith Olbermann,'' the MSNBC host, he said, though ''I can usually only do it for 10 minutes.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Fox News cameraman during the presidential campaign last summer.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); POLITICS (90%); TRENDS (89%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); WRITERS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); IRAQ WAR (62%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (95%); ARBITRON INC (64%)

TICKER: ARB (NYSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (95%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (95%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (64%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (64%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (64%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2009



76 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Too Little of a Good Thing

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
The good news is that the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, a k a the Obama stimulus plan, is working just about the way textbook macroeconomics said it would. But that's also the bad news -- because the same textbook analysis says that the stimulus was far too small given the scale of our economic problems. Unless something changes drastically, we're looking at many years of high unemployment.
 And the really bad news is that ''centrists'' in Congress aren't able or willing to draw the obvious conclusion, which is that we need a lot more federal spending on job creation. 
 About that good news: not that long ago the U.S. economy was in free fall. Without the recovery act, the free fall would probably have continued, as unemployed workers slashed their spending, cash-strapped state and local governments engaged in mass layoffs, and more. 
 The stimulus didn't completely eliminate these effects, but it was enough to break the vicious circle of economic decline. Aid to the unemployed and help for state and local governments were probably the most important factors. If you want to see the recovery act in action, visit a classroom: your local school probably would have had to fire a lot of teachers if the stimulus hadn't been enacted. 
 And the free fall has ended. Last week's G.D.P. report showed the economy growing again, at a better-than-expected annual rate of 3.5 percent. As Mark Zandi of Moody's Economy.com put it in recent testimony, ''The stimulus is doing what it was supposed to do: short-circuit the recession and spur recovery.''
 But it's not doing enough.
 Suppose that the economy were to keep growing at 3.5 percent. If that happened, unemployment would eventually start falling -- but very, very slowly. The experience of the Clinton era, when the economy grew at an average rate of 3.7 percent for eight years (did you know that?) suggests that at current growth rates we'd be lucky to see the unemployment rate fall by half a percentage point per year, meaning that it would take a decade to return to something like full employment.
 Worse yet, it's far from clear that growth will continue at this rate. The effects of the stimulus will build over time -- it's still likely to create or save a total of around three million jobs -- but its peak impact on the growth of G.D.P. (as opposed to its level) is already behind us. Solid growth will continue only if private spending takes up the baton as the effect of the stimulus fades. And so far there's no sign that this is happening. 
 So the government needs to do much more. Unfortunately, the political prospects for further action aren't good.
 What I keep hearing from Washington is one of two arguments: either (1) the stimulus has failed, unemployment is still rising, so we shouldn't do any more, or (2) the stimulus has succeeded, G.D.P. is growing, so we don't need to do any more. The truth, which is that the stimulus was too little of a good thing -- that it helped, but it wasn't big enough -- seems to be too complicated for an era of sound-bite politics.
 But can we afford to do more? We can't afford not to. 
 High unemployment doesn't just punish the economy today; it punishes the future, too. In the face of a depressed economy, businesses have slashed investment spending -- both spending on plant and equipment and ''intangible'' investments in such things as product development and worker training. This will hurt the economy's potential for years to come. 
 Deficit hawks like to complain that today's young people will end up having to pay higher taxes to service the debt we're running up right now. But anyone who really cared about the prospects of young Americans would be pushing for much more job creation, since the burden of high unemployment falls disproportionately on young workers -- and those who enter the work force in years of high unemployment suffer permanent career damage, never catching up with those who graduated in better times. 
 Even the claim that we'll have to pay for stimulus spending now with higher taxes later is mostly wrong. Spending more on recovery will lead to a stronger economy, both now and in the future -- and a stronger economy means more government revenue. Stimulus spending probably doesn't pay for itself, but its true cost, even in a narrow fiscal sense, is only a fraction of the headline number.
 O.K., I know I'm being impractical: major economic programs can't pass Congress without the support of relatively conservative Democrats, and these Democrats have been telling reporters that they have lost their appetite for stimulus.
 But I hope their stomachs start rumbling soon. We now know that stimulus works, but we aren't doing nearly enough of it. For the sake of today's unemployed, and for the sake of the nation's future, we need to do much more. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2009



77 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: Bite-Size Legal Trouble And Suspense

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN

 BODY:
FORD COUNTY
 By John Grisham
 308 pages. Doubleday. $24.
 John Grisham had some story ideas that he didn't think could sustain full-length narrative. So he did what he customarily does: whatever he wants to. Was anyone at Doubleday going to argue with that? 
 Mr. Grisham took seven of his unused plot ideas and turned each of them into a sharp, lean tale free of subplots and padding. At an average length of slightly over 40 pages, these narratives are shorter than novellas but longer than conventional short stories. For a fledgling author, this format would be a tough sell; for Mr. Grisham, it's a vacation from whatever grueling work goes into the construction of fully rigged best sellers. The change invigorates him in ways that show up on the page.
 ''Ford County'' is Mr. Grisham's only short-story collection. That doesn't mean he's put his novelistic instincts aside. This book begins on a light note and ends with a teary one; in between it's full of tacit suspense that hinges on the bending, breaking and subversion of Mississippi law. Exactly when and how will a tricky legal issue arise? You needn't see it coming to know it will be there. 
 In the hive of criminal creativity that is Ford County (the place introduced in Mr. Grisham's debut novel, ''A Time to Kill'') many a citizen seems poised on the brink of trouble. Yet Mr. Grisham often approaches that trouble in wryly humorous fashion, as he does in ''Blood Drive,'' the book's opening story. He begins with an emergency: a local named Bailey has been injured in a construction accident in Memphis, and Bailey needs blood donors. Exactly what happened? Nobody's sure. What work was Bailey doing? Good question. His mother always said he was an assistant foreman, but he turns out to have been a mason's helper instead.
 Soon three stalwarts have been recruited to make a hasty run from Mississippi to Memphis. And it takes remarkably few words for Mr. Grisham to sketch them perfectly. ''A hero quickly emerged,'' Mr. Grisham writes archly of Wayne Agnor, a k a Aggie, whose ownership of a pickup is his main qualification for the job. The second volunteer is Calvin Marr, conveniently unemployed and eager to see what Memphis is like. The third, the guy nobody wants, is named Roger, and his father seems to volunteer Roger for the job just to get rid of him. Would Roger's drug history make him a good blood donor? ''Needles certainly wouldn't intimidate him,'' Mr. Grisham writes.
 Off they go, assured that Roger has quit drinking until Roger produces his first six-pack of beer. (''I did,'' he explains. ''I quit all the time. Quittin's easy.'') This leads to drinking, driving, a high-speed escape from a police car and eventually a visit to a Memphis strip club. By the time the three men get to a hospital -- one of 10 in Memphis, and not necessarily the right one -- it's after 3 in the morning. Donating blood isn't possible. Besides, nobody bothered to find out whether Bailey was the injured man's first or last name.
 As ''Blood Drive'' begins living up to its title, Mr. Grisham leads his threesome down a slippery slope toward life-changing legal consequences. He also leads them into so much trouble that Bailey is the character who emerges least scathed. 
 Then it's on to ''Fetching Raymond,'' another story about a road trip, this one as mysterious in purpose as the Bailey rescue mission was clear. Three no-account Graneys, Inez and two of her sons (one of whom ''still lived with his mother because he'd never lived anywhere else, at least not in the free world''), are headed for an unnamed destination. They are making what is apparently a regular pilgrimage for them all. 
 They're going to visit a third brother, Raymond, at the prison where he has been spending his family's scant resources, learning big words (''what the hell is a stipend?'' a brother asks), hiring lawyers, firing lawyers and doing some truly terrible writing. Raymond has also insisted on becoming the rare white Delta blues singer on death row.
 The death row angle is slipped almost casually into what has until then been a fairly upbeat dysfunctional-family tale. But Mr. Grisham can give his story an unexpected twist without need of a heavy hand. His novels sometimes moralize; these short stories don't need to because they transform their agendas into pure, vigorous plot. The closing piece, ''Funny Boy,'' is a poignant account of illness, bigotry and unexpected tenderness, none of it presented as editorializing and all of it incorporated into action.
 ''Fish Files,'' like Mr. Grisham's most recent novel, ''The Associate,'' offers an illuminating, blow-by-blow look at the process whereby legal ethics crumble in the face of temptation. A small-town bankruptcy and divorce lawyer gets a potentially lucrative call from a New York hotshot. This causes the Ford County lawyer to access his inner Jimmy Buffett and start dreaming how he can escape to the tropics.
 He doesn't exactly intend to swindle, forge or lie; things just kind of work out that way, as they often do when Mr. Grisham pulls the strings. And if the story winds up as less than a full-fledged drama, it also becomes much more than a well-wrought diversion. Mr. Grisham knows how to make himself eminently readable. In ''Ford County'' he's careful to be exacting and informative too.
 Also in ''Ford County'': ''Casino,'' in which a Ford County entrepreneur finds it convenient to call himself part of the Yazoo Indian Nation for reasons of casino development and winds up reaping the consequences; ''Michael's Room,'' the book's only faint show of preachiness, in which an unscrupulous defense lawyer who has won a courtroom victory for a pharmaceutical company is given a Dickensian look at how he has affected plaintiff lives; and ''Quiet Haven,'' the book's sneakiest story. Why would a nice young man seek work at nursing home after nursing home and keep changing jobs so regularly? The answer isn't hard to guess, but it's the tactics that matter. A scam artist can have no better accomplice than Mr. Grisham when it comes to doing the wrong thing but doing it right. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO(C1)
 John Grisham(C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BLOOD DONATIONS (88%); WRITERS (78%); CONSTRUCTION ACCIDENTS (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%); BEER & ALE (60%)

PERSON: JOHN GRISHAM (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Ford County (Book)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2009



78 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; PRESCRIPTIONS MAKING SENSE OF THE HEALTH CARE DEBATE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: Changing Numbers Make Meaning Even More Elusive

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
More and more, the Great Health Care Debate of 2009 is a numbers game. And the longer the debate goes on, the squishier the numbers seem to get. 
 For months, many leading Democrats, including President Obama, have pushed for the creation of a government-run insurance plan to compete with private insurers. 
 A main argument was that a public plan would save people money. It would not be under pressure to earn profits, pay high private-sector salaries or deny needed care. 
 But after House Democratic leaders unveiled their health care bill on Thursday, the Congressional Budget Office said the public plan would cost more than private plans and only six million people would sign up. 
 One reason the public plan would not save customers money is that it would have to negotiate payment rates with doctors and hospitals just like private plans. 
 The House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, wanted a more ''robust'' public plan with payment rates tied to Medicare. But in the end she could not muster the votes, largely because of opposition from lawmakers in states where Medicare rates are lowest. 
 They Were Warned
 Health economists had warned that a plan with negotiated rates would not lower costs for consumers. Private insurers already negotiate rates and health care costs have only spiraled upward. 
 But there are other reasons the public plan would charge higher premiums. 
 ''The public plan would have lower administration costs than those private plans but would probably engage in less management of utilization by enrollees and attract a less healthy pool of enrollees,'' the budget office said. 
 In other words, people with more medical problems would be more likely to buy the public plan, which in turn would be less likely to limit the utilization of services. 
 Or put another way: the public plan intended to compete with private insurers on a ''level playing field'' would come up short. And, according to the budget office, no amount of ''risk adjustment'' refereeing by the federal government would prevent that. 
 But the public plan offers just one example of funny numbers. 
 The budget office said the House bill would cost $1.055 trillion over 10 years, fully offset by new tax revenues and cuts in spending. 
 On Thursday, Ms. Pelosi focused on a different number: $894 billion, the net total of the bill's coverage provisions. 
 Only by focusing on the net $894 billion, could Ms. Pelosi claim to meet Mr. Obama's goal of a $900 billion bill. 
 (Never mind that both House and Senate Democrats plan to spend more than $200 billion in a separate bill to avert steep cuts in Medicare payments to doctors.) 
 Once Ms. Pelosi realized that she could not get a robust public option, she needed another way to reduce the bill's cost. The answer was a wider expansion of Medicaid, the state-federal insurance for the poor. 
 In just one of the counterintuitive concepts in the health care debate, enrolling more people in Medicaid saves money because it is cheaper than subsidizing private insurance, and because states share the cost. 
 The House bill would increase total Medicaid costs for states by $34 billion. States, of course, object to such added expenses. 
 Sweetening the Deal
 Continuing the numbers game, House Democrats sweetened the deal by extending a temporary increase in federal Medicaid payments that was part of the economic stimulus measure. That little sweetener will cost the federal government $23.5 billion, but will help states overcome their near-term budget problems. 
 On Friday, the budget office issued a follow-up letter, hoping to clarify several cost issues. But more than anything, it was a reminder that the numbers are squishy. 
 Some lawmakers want to focus on what the legislation will mean for the federal budget. Others on what the legislation will mean specifically about government spending on health care. Still others want to know the impact on the nation's overall health care costs, not just those paid by the government. 
 And a narrower focus could simply look at what the legislation would do to the price of insurance premiums, for private plans or a public plan. 
 ''The question often arises: How does C.B.O. evaluate whether health care reform proposals 'bend the curve'?'' the budget office director, Douglas W. Elmendorf, wrote in the clarification letter. ''But that question raises another one: Which curve? Several cost trends are of interest to policy makers, and even though they are related, proposals might not have the same effects on each one.'' 
 A Disservice
 Representative Alan Grayson, Democrat of Florida, who has earned himself a reputation recently as a rabble-rouser, said that Democrats had done themselves a disservice by focusing on economic arguments. 
 ''We have wasted so much time talking about bending the cost curve, people have no idea what that means,'' Mr. Grayson said. ''Why would you want to bend a curve? It's already bent.'' 
 So Mr. Grayson is focusing on another number -- the 44,789 Americans that he says die every year for lack of insurance. 
 ''The messaging was just wrong, and now it's right,'' Mr. Grayson said. ''We are saving people's lives and saving money. That's what really matters.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The health care bill has aroused public passion. Above, a protest against the legislation on Capitol Hill last week.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); MEDICAID (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%)

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2009



79 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: With Some Coaching, Bloomberg Learns to Bite His Tongue

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
For years, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg called City Councilwoman Letitia James ''Trish,'' even though she is known as Tish and corrected him again and again. When the mayor spoke to her, his body language spoke volumes, she said: He would look up, down, around, anywhere but at her face.
 What a difference an election makes, said Ms. James, a Brooklyn Democrat. 
 ''Now he looks at you, and he calls me by my name,'' she said. ''But it's the season we're in, because I believe he's been coached over and over again.''
 Mr. Bloomberg is many things, but warm and fuzzy is not among them. He can be blunt, dismissive and even crass at times, qualities that some New Yorkers have found refreshing. But this year, during the mayor's controversial bid for a third term, his advisers have worked intensely to get him to restrain himself and watch what he says. 
 And Mr. Bloomberg, a former Boy Scout, has internalized that message so well that administration officials now often use the same word to describe the mayor's behavior: muzzled.
 ''The campaign strategy is to protect Bloomberg from Bloomberg,'' said one person close to the mayor who spoke on the condition of anonymity so as not to jeopardize their relationship.
 Mr. Bloomberg has not committed any major gaffes on the campaign trail. He has projected an upbeat mood, generally speaking, and has joked about his poor spelling skills and his age (67). He has not displayed his trademark snarkiness with reporters, even describing the journalist he earlier this year called a ''disgrace'' (Azi Paybarah of The New York Observer) as ''brilliant.''
 And with the election just days away, that has left supporters of Mr. Bloomberg's Democratic opponent, William C. Thompson Jr., frustrated.
 Of course, the strategy has also relied on minimizing the chances for a nasty mayoral moment. Mr. Bloomberg's news conferences are much shorter now. In recent weeks, he has fielded questions at a Hindu temple (about four minutes), a Red Hook port facility (almost six minutes) and an endorsement in Riverside Park (clocking in at nine minutes). 
 For several days last week, he did not have any formal question-and-answer sessions with reporters, until one was hastily added on Friday (10 minutes).
 By contrast, some of his news conferences earlier this year were near marathons. In March, he fielded questions for 25 minutes after a speech to the Economic Club of New York. That same month, he took questions for 27 minutes at an event about water meters in Brooklyn. 
 ''There's been a concerted effort to attempt to trim the amount of endless conversation in front of folks,'' said one Bloomberg adviser. ''The path to a defeat is through those kinds of slip-ups or any combativeness on his part.''
 The Bloomberg campaign says that the mayor has not changed at all. He has been, according to Howard Wolfson, the campaign's chief media strategist, ''an incredibly disciplined and focused candidate, and I think you've seen it every day on the stump.''
 But other campaign aides and supporters say that the mayor's makeover was necessitated by several factors. One was the recognition, early on, that his re-election bid would not be as easy as his 2005 run. Some people were outraged over his push to overturn term limits. The economy was sputtering. And some people were lambasting Mr. Bloomberg, a billionaire who is the richest man in New York, saying he favored developers and the wealthy at the expense of the poor and working class -- ingredients, all, for populist outrage.
 Then, in the spring, Mr. Bloomberg's tartness came through on two high-profile occasions, reinforcing the image of him as out of touch and insensitive. In addition to telling Mr. Paybarah, who had asked about his rationale for changing term limits, that he was a disgrace, the mayor lashed out at another reporter, Michael Harris. Mr. Harris had accidentally turned on his tape recorder during a news conference, playing bits of an earlier political rally, and the mayor did not hold back, even when the City Council speaker pointed out that Mr. Harris was in a wheelchair. (The mayor later apologized.) 
 ''I think there were people after the Azi and the Michael Harris incidents who said, 'O.K., a couple more of those, and that's an ad montage, and that could be trouble,' '' said one veteran Democrat who has worked closely with the Bloomberg administration. 
 So over time, people close to Mr. Bloomberg -- including Deputy Mayor Patricia E. Harris -- urged him to do away with such outbursts, according to several aides and supporters.
 ''In a previous race it almost felt like it was a parade before the coronation,'' said Councilman Simcha Felder, a Brooklyn Democrat who has endorsed the mayor. ''But this time around, with the economy being down, with some people being upset about the term limits issue and the challenges with anyone getting re-elected to a third term, it makes a lot more sense for him to be even more cautious and disciplined.''
 Still, there have been opportunities for Mr. Bloomberg to trip up, and he has not done so. Take what happened Oct. 25 in Queens, when he visited a Hindu temple. He was surrounded by beauty contestants, but rather than say something ribald -- which he has been known to do -- he simply smiled and said, ''My girlfriend's not going to be happy about this.''
 Then again, Mr. Bloomberg's campaign persona may well have an expiration date.
 ''It's going to last until he wins,'' said one Bloomberg supporter. ''There's no way they can bottle him up that long.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); JOURNALISM (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); WRITERS (63%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2009



80 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Faces Tough Tests Far Beyond Re-election

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH 

 BODY:
When he took office in 2006 after the sudden death of his predecessor, Mayor Luke Ravenstahl became something of a media sensation.
 At 26, he was the nation's youngest big-city mayor. David Letterman asked if his appearance on ''The Late Show'' was interfering with his homework.
 Today, Mayor Ravenstahl's age is not an issue. Though he has yet to turn 30, he has become a force in Pittsburgh politics, having won election in his own right in 2007 and handily defeating a challenger for the Democratic nomination this year. 
 Mr. Ravenstahl is expected to win re-election Tuesday over two independent candidates. But he faces new trials as Pittsburgh struggles with a declining population, a shrinking tax base and fiscal problems with its pension plan.
 ''I'm most definitely up for the challenge,'' Mr. Ravenstahl said. ''I learned a lot in my first term, and we are ready to move forward.''
 By most measures he has been fairly successful as mayor. He cut the city's work force by 2 percent, streamlined snow removal and received increased economic development aid from state officials in Harrisburg. The result has been budget surpluses for the last four years. 
 Moreover, the city has done fairly well in replacing its steel industry with jobs in education, health care and a variety of ''green'' businesses. 
 John McCarthy, an assistant professor of history at Robert Morris University in Moon Township, a Pittsburgh suburb, said most residents have been surprised by the mayor's ability to grow into the position, and they are underwhelmed by the other candidates.
 ''Initially, I think people resented that they had to wait for him to grow in office when most cities have their mayors do that before they take office,'' Mr. McCarthy said. ''But he is really going to be put to the challenge in the next couple years.''
 Among those challenges is repairing the city's pension system. A recent report by the Pew Charitable Trusts found that Pittsburgh's pension system was the most troubled among those of 10 comparable cities.
 More immediately, the mayor's 2010 budget is due to the City Council the Monday after the election. Mr. Ravenstahl hopes to raise $15 million in new revenue in part by levying taxes and fees on universities and hospitals. But it is not clear that he has built the good will with the City Council to achieve his goals.
 ''His relationship with the Council, as a whole, is generally adversarial,'' said Doug Shields, the City Council president and one of the mayor's more consistent critics. ''He has not communicated to the Council or the city's oversight board as to how he plans to collect that money.''
 Mr. Shields said the mayor had also struggled to develop ties to the Legislature, whose help he will need to accomplish his plan for new taxes and fees. 
 ''Managing the city requires fostering productive relationships, and so far the mayor hasn't done that except with his own staff,'' Mr. Shields said.
 Some of the mayor's relationships have also been a source of concern for at least one of his opponents. ''He has corporate developers running his office,'' said Kevin Acklin, 33, a lawyer who is running as an independent. 
 Last month, Mr. Acklin released e-mail messages between a prominent businessman, John Verbanac, and members of the Ravenstahl administration. The messages show that Mr. Verbanac, a former campaign and government staff member to two Republican United States senators, advised the mayor or his staff members on policy decisions and speech writing. 
 Mr. Acklin also said that Mr. Verbanac gave the administration advice on its development strategy, even as he pursued development projects in which city government played a role.
 ''How are small businesses supposed to compete when lobbyists for big developers are calling the shots for the mayor?'' Mr. Acklin asked.
 Mr. Verbanac denied any impropriety, and Mr. Ravenstahl dismissed the accusations as ''a desperate move by a desperate candidate.''
 Also calling for more help for small businesses is Franco Harris, known as Dok, the other candidate running against Mr. Ravenstahl. Mr. Harris, 30, is a businessman and the son of the former Pittsburgh Steelers football star of the same name. 
 ''All the small-business owners I talk to say they are extremely frustrated with the current administration because when they try to get permits, it takes three months,'' said Mr. Harris, who is running as an independent. ''You get help as a small business based not on what you want to do but who you know.''
 The mayor has also failed to make the city a leader in attracting start-up companies, Mr. Harris said, adding that he wants to court technology companies in robotics, computers and sustainable energy.
 ''Until we build up these types of jobs and get people moving back to Pittsburgh,'' Mr. Harris said, ''we are going to continue to struggle with our long-term legacy costs, including pension and other debt service.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''I'm most definitely up for the challenge,'' said Luke Ravenstahl, the mayor of Pittsburgh, which is battling a loss of population and pension plan problems.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); BUDGETS (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); POPULATION DECLINE (74%); LABOR FORCE (74%); PENSION FUNDS (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (69%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); FOUNDATIONS (60%)

PERSON: DAVID LETTERMAN (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2009



81 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: IN NEW JERSEY, PRESIDENT MAKES CASE FOR CORZINE

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN and DAVID M. HALBFINGER; Michael Barbaro, Colin Moynihan and Nate Schweber contributed reporting.

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
President Obama swept into New Jersey on Sunday, pleading with his supporters to summon up the enthusiasm they poured into his election last November and deliver a victory for Gov. Jon S. Corzine.
 ''He's one of the best partners I have in the White House. We work together,'' Mr. Obama said. ''We know our work is far from over.''
Mr. Obama's appearances in Camden and Newark underscored the White House's determination to stave off defeat for Mr. Corzine, the only Democratic incumbent up for re-election this year, who is facing an aggressive challenge from Christopher J. Christie, a Republican.
 The race is one of several likely to be viewed as a barometer of the president's popularity. 
 Virginia voters will also choose a new governor Tuesday, but there the Republican, Bob McDonnell, has a double-digit lead against the Democrat, R. Creigh Deeds, and the White House has all but conceded Mr. Deeds cannot overtake him.
 In a Congressional race in upstate New York, the White House helped to engineer the surprise endorsement of the Democratic candidate, Bill Owens, by Assemblywoman Dede Scozzafava, the Republican nominee who dropped out on Saturday. The move by Ms. Scozzafava, a moderate former small-town mayor, only intensified the intraparty fighting in a contest that has become a battle for the future of the Republican Party. 
 In New York City, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr. raced across the five boroughs in last-minute appeals to voters. Mr. Bloomberg tried to ward off complacency among his supporters, with polls showing him with a comfortable lead, while a vastly outspent Mr. Thompson tried to generate enthusiasm among core Democratic voters.
 The New Jersey contest is attracting enormous attention, not only because of its closeness.
 The sputtering economy here (unemployment is 9.8 percent) has helped to depress Mr. Corzine's poll numbers and created uneasiness among Democrats nationally about a state they have carried in presidential contests since 1992. Republicans are likely to seize on a Corzine defeat as a sign that Mr. Obama's policies are being rejected by the electorate, and argue that they will oust more endangered Democrats in 2010.
 Most polls show the race too close to call; Mr. Obama's visit to New Jersey on Sunday was his third to stump for Mr. Corzine.
 Mr. Christie, undeterred by Mr. Obama's appeal, barnstormed Sunday in Bergen County, the state's most populous county, and in Republican strongholds like Morristown and Toms River. At a separate event in Morristown, Representative Joe Wilson, the South Carolina Republican who yelled ''You lie!'' at Mr. Obama on the House floor, campaigned for Mr. Christie.
 ''We need to get to the polls each and every person who is sick and tired of Corzine,'' Mr. Christie said during an event at the historic Morristown Green.
 On television talk shows on Sunday morning, some Democrats tried to play down the significance of Tuesday's vote, suggesting that local issues and trends would eclipse national concerns. Top Obama advisers also said the campaigns, especially in New York's 23rd District, suggested that Republicans were becoming too extreme.
 ''I think we've seen an interesting development over this weekend in a special election in upstate New York in a Congressional district,'' David Axelrod said on ''Face the Nation'' on CBS. ''The Republican candidate withdrew because of the strong third-party movement behind a very right-wing conservative.''
 He added: ''I think it sends a clear message to moderates within that party that there's no room at the inn for them.''
 In the upstate district, conservative activists nationally have rallied behind Douglas L. Hoffman, who will appear on the ballot on the Conservative Party line. Unlike Ms. Scozzafava, Mr. Hoffman opposes same-sex marriage and abortion rights.
 A spokesman for Mr. Hoffman said Sunday that Ms. Scozzafava had revealed herself to be a Republican in name only by endorsing Mr. Owens, the Democratic candidate. 
 ''This afternoon Dede Scozzafava betrayed the G.O.P.,'' said Rob Ryan, senior communications adviser. 
 Meanwhile, Michael Steele, the national Republican Party chairman, boldly predicted victory for Republicans, saying voters were uneasy with Democratic policies on health care and the economy.
 One wild card in New Jersey is the third-party candidacy of Christopher J. Daggett, who reached 20 percent in some polls last month, but has since fallen. It is not clear if people who have expressed support for Mr. Daggett will stay with him Tuesday or decide to back one of the major-party candidates.
 Mr. Obama tried to rebut Mr. Christie's attacks on the governor over the state's economic problems, saying the Republican supported policies that contributed to the nation's continuing financial woes.
 ''Listening to Jon's opponent, you'd think New Jersey was the only state going through a tough time right now,'' Mr. Obama said. ''I have something to report: We have the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. By the way, that didn't start under Jon's watch, that didn't start on my watch.''
 The message resonated with people like Deborah Howell, a receptionist who lost her job eight months ago. She attended the Newark rally, and said the city had been improving under Mr. Corzine. ''It will get better if we keep it on the track it's on now,'' she said. ''If they change it to Republicans, things'll start going the other way.''
 While the president urged his listeners to look past negative TV ads, Mr. Christie was aggressive on the stump, joking sharply about Mr. Corzine's reliance on White House help. 
 He suggested that the governor, even if re-elected, would accept an ambassadorship rather than serve out a second term.
 ''He should go back to D.C. on Air Force One,'' Mr. Christie told a raucous crowd in North Middletown in one of several stops he made Sunday on a weekend-long, 21-county bus tour
 At the Park Ridge Diner at the northernmost exit of the Garden State Parkway, Mr. Christie shook hands with people like Judy Brendel, an education administrator from Montvale.
 ''I am against a long list of what Corzine stands for,'' she said. ''I'm very fearful of what's happening in this country. I see young people, I see where they're going, they don't know what this country is about.''
 As for her husband, John Brendel, 74, he said he was ''anti-Corzine as much as I am pro-Christie.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FIGHT TO THE FINISH: President Obama with Gov. Jon S. Corzine at a rally in Newark on Sunday. Below, Mr. Corzine's opponent, Christopher J. Christie, at a diner in East Rutherford, N.J. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES
BELOW, JUAN ARREDONDO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
The ratings of Gov. Jon S. Corzine, a Democrat, have fallen in a harsh economy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Christopher J. Christie, a former federal prosecutor, has run an aggressive campaign. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUAN ARREDONDO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); MAYORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); GOVERNORS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOE WILSON (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2009



82 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2009

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1453 words

HEADLINE: The Cost of College: Graphing Tuition Prices and Other Expenses

BYLINE: DINAH MACK and HOLLY EPSTEIN OJALVO


HIGHLIGHT: Lesson Plan | Graphing college costs. 

 BODY:
Overview | How do the costs of two-year, four-year, public and private colleges vary and compare? What factors have fueled the community college enrollment boom? In this lesson, students analyze the rise in tuition costs and consider the implication of the economy on the costs of college. They compare and investigate college education costs and create graphs to represent the data, then research and graph their own anticipated college costs. 
Materials | Computers with Internet connection, graph paper or computer graphing program, rulers
Warm-Up | Divide the class into partners or small groups, and give each a copy of, or access to, the first two graphs found on the Economix blog post "The Skyrocketing Costs of Attending College," which depicts the rising cost of college tuition since 1979. Have students discuss the graphs together and observe how the cost has changed over time. Ask: what is the subject of each graph? What three things surprise you about the data? When small group work is complete, hold a discussion about their conclusions.
Related | Tennis courts are being used as parking lots, classes are held in the middle of the night, and thousands of people are being waitlisted for the country's community colleges, writes Abby Goodnough in "New Meaning for Night Classes at 2-Year Colleges":
Virtually every state is dealing with enrollment booms at community colleges, the American Association of Community Colleges says, with some in California reporting increases of 35 percent. The demand comes amid deep cuts to higher-education budgets, but also at a hopeful time for community colleges: President Obama recently announced a $12 billion plan to increase the number of community college graduates by five million by 2020.
"It shines a spotlight on a sector of higher education that by and large has been viewed as the lowest rung on the ladder," Dr. Fifield said. "Now we have the president of the United States talking about community colleges as an engine that will drive and sustain economic success in this country."
Read the entire article with your class using the questions below.
Questions | For reading comprehension and discussion:

        
What accounts for the surge in enrollment at two-year colleges?
        
What are some ways in which community colleges have dealt with the growth in applications?
        
In your opinion, why does President Obama feel that community college will be "an engine that will drive and sustain economic success in this country"?
        
In what ways is the economic recession affecting community colleges around the United States?
        
Would you ever consider taking a night course that meets from 11:45 p.m.-2:30 a.m.? Do you think that attending class at such a late hour would impact your learning? Why or why not?
Activity | This activity can move in two different directions. The first is an introduction or a review of basic graphing; the second, more complex, adds a student-directed research component before graphing.
As a class, discuss the types of graphs that students are familiar with: bar graphs, scatter plot, line graphs, and the purposes of each one.
Then have students go to the Many Eyes visualization of Average Published Tuition and Fees, 2009-10 graph.
While exploring the map, discuss other graph types that could also represent the tuition data clearly and effectively. What would they title their graphs? How would they label the axes? There are many free graphing Web sites where students can create simple graphs, like the National Center for Education Statistics Kids' Zone, or students can create hand-drawn graphs on graph paper.
Students can graph a specific state or compare a few states, focusing on either public or private colleges, using the data from the Times article, the Economix post or the Many Eyes map.
When students have completed their graphs, have them pair up with other students to share how they graphed the same data. Why did they make the choices that they did? Which graph seems to convey the information most effectively and why? Then invite each pair to share what they discussed with the class, and to show their classmates their graphs.
Assign individual students to graph a specific region. For example, a student could create a graph that compares a two-year and a four-year college, or a private versus a public college, in more than one state. Discuss how students could make comparisons with graphs before they begin.
Alternatively or additionally, have students find additional data for their own graphs using New York Times articles about community college and private colleges and universities. Resources include the following:

        
The Community Colleges and Colleges and Universities Times Topics pages.
        
Articles, including "College Enrollment Set Record in 2008,""More White-Collar Workers Turn to Community Colleges,""Enrollment in Colleges Sets a Record Last Year,""Students Covering Bigger Share of Costs of College,""Why College Costs Rise, Even in a Recession,""At Public Universities, Less is More".
        
Related posts on such blogs as Economix and The Choice, etc.
        
Graphs and charts, including States' Evidence and Top Pay for University Presidents.
        
Multimedia, including the slide show "Public University Snapshots".
        
Other Web sites, like The Chronicle of Higher Education and the ones provided in the Related Resources list above.
You may also want to share with students the work of Charles M. Blow, The Times' visual Op-Ed columnist, to inspire them to create more advanced graphs.
After the research is complete and students have created their graphs, have students who have graphed other data pair up to draw conclusions. Questions could include the following: Is a 4-year education more expensive in a private or public college? Does geography play a role in the cost of college? Where is the least expensive sate to attend a four year public college? Have partners write statements based on their own graphs.
Display all of the graphs and statements around the room, and have students spend time perusing them all. Then generate a list of statements as a class, and hold a discussion about whether and how this information might enter into their own decisions about college.
Going Further | Tell students to imagine that they need to pay for their own college education and all associated costs (food/board, dorm room/rent, books, etc.). They can use the cost of a 2- or 4-year public or private college in any state that they graphed, or they can choose a college of their choice. (More advanced students might graph the costs associated with various options.)
Imagining that they are matriculating at their chosen institution(s), students should create a budget. They should use their own real financial circumstances or assume the following:

        
They have no savings available.
        
They work a part-time job for 20 hours a week earning minimum wage.
        
Based on their academic performance, they have earned a yearly academic scholarship to the college; as long as they keep their average over a 3.0, they will receive 25 percent off of tuition each semester.
New York Times tools and resources to use include the College Cost Calculator and the Cost of Living Wizard, the Your Money Guides on Paying for College and Student Loans, and the video "Debt Trap: College Borrowing Catches Up."
Students should use these resources, the Internet and educated assumptions to explore how they would afford college. Ask your students to consider and research cost of living, taking into account such factors as rent, roommates to share costs with, utilities, food, transportation, books and other supplies, clothes, entertainment and so on. Is it possible to cover all of these costs and to save any money each month? Will they need to take out student loans? If so, for how much?
Have students share their budgets and hold a class discussion on the challenges they will face when paying for their college education. If desired, share their findings with the college counseling office and perhaps make them available at a school college planning event.
Teachers, Parents and Counselors: How do you help high school students tackle the complexities of getting into, paying for and thriving in college?
Standards | From McREL, for Grades 6-12:
Math
2- Understands and applies basic and advanced properties of the concepts of numbers.
6- Understands and applies basic and advanced concepts of statistics and data analysis.
9-Understands the general nature and uses of mathematics.
Thinking and Reasoning
3- Effectively uses mental processes that are based on identifying similarities and differences.

        
Failure on Deficit Reduction Plan
        
Throwing, Passing and Signing
        
How Colleges Can Retain Science Majors
        
How Students Can Take Charge of Their Education
        
Do You Trust Your Government?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (92%); TUITION FEES (91%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); RECESSION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); MATHEMATICS (76%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (59%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (52%) college; costs; graphing; graphs; Obama; tuition; Academic Skills; Current Events; Data Analysis and Probability; Economics; Geography; Lesson Plans; Maps; Markets and Economic Indicators; Mathematical Reasoning; Mathematics; Numbers and Operations; Personal Economics; Practical Math; Research Skills; Technology; Thinking Skills; Using the Internet

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF COMMUNITY COLLEGES (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2011



83 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 167 words

HEADLINE: Lehman Brothers Art Draws Bullish Buyers

BYLINE: Compiled by DAVE ITZKOFF

 BODY:
A fire sale of artwork that once belonged to Lehman Brothers, the investment services company whose bankruptcy in September 2008 augured months of worldwide economic turmoil, raised $1.35 million at an auction on Sunday, which is, at least, a start toward the billions in debt that the company left behind. In a news release the auction house Freeman's, which conducted the sale, top right, in Philadelphia, said that all 280 lots offered, consisting of works from Lehman Brothers offices in New York, Massachusetts and Delaware, were sold. Among the top sellers were a Roy Lichtenstein ''I Love Liberty'' print, which brought $49,000; a set of 10 prints by Louis Lozowick, which went for $94,000; and a Georges Schreiber painting of Manhattan's financial district for $20,000. (All sales figures include a 25 percent buyer's premium on the first $20,000 of the hammer price and an additional 20 percent on the balance.) Freeman's plans future sales of Lehman Brothers artworks on Dec. 6 and Feb. 12. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT ROURKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); SALES FIGURES (88%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2009



84 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 621 words

PERSON: Troy Smith 

HEADLINE: Troy Smith, Founder of Sonic, Dies at 87

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Troy N. Smith Sr., who turned ordering a hamburger by speaking into a microphone from a parked car into a national habit, died last Monday in Oklahoma City, Okla. He was 87.
 His death was announced by the Sonic Corporation, the nationwide chain of drive-in restaurants he founded in 1959.
 As a young man fresh out of the United States military, Mr. Smith turned somebody else's trifle of an idea into an enterprise. One day, while driving along the Texas-Louisiana border, he grew giddy at the sight of a fast-food joint with a car-to-kitchen intercom. He asked the owners for a replica of the audio system, and he soon made it the centerpiece of his root beer stand in Shawnee, Okla. 
 Families, delighted by both the efficiency and absurdity of using a tiny microphone to command milkshakes to the driver's seat, flocked to the Sonic drive-ins. By the late 1970s, Mr. Smith was operating one of the most successful fast-food chains in the United States; from 1977 to 1978, he broke ground on an average of one location a day, mostly concentrated in the South. Today, the company operates nearly 3,600 locations in 42 states. Bob Blackburn, executive director of the Oklahoma Historical Society and the author of ''Sonic: The History of America's Drive-in'' (Cottonwood Publications, 2009), said Mr. Smith's business model flourished because it came just as Americans began to embrace car culture and recreational eating.
 ''He came up with a formula that restaurants are a people business,'' Mr. Blackburn said. ''He defined what it means to be an entrepreneur.''
 Troy Nuel Smith Sr. was born in Seminole, Okla., on May 26, 1922. He grew up in the oil patches of east central Oklahoma and in 1943 joined the Army Air Forces. When the war ended, he began work as a milk truck driver.
 Mr. Smith found that he did not like to be ordered around, and he decided to leave trucking to become his own boss. He turned his entrepreneurial spirit toward food, opening several restaurants in Shawnee, including a diner called the Cottage Cafe and an upscale steak house known as the Log House Restaurant.
 But it was the Top Hat, a root beer stand that he opened in 1953, that became Mr. Smith's most lucrative endeavor, consistently yielding a 20 percent profit. He abandoned the other businesses, hoping to capitalize on the growing popularity of drive-in restaurants.
 In the 1950s, drive-ins were already a staple of the American fast-food scene. Mr. Smith sought to reinvent them. He added an intercom system that made it possible to deliver food within three minutes; wired each restaurant with speakers to pipe in radio hits; added angular parking to increase privacy; and maintained a fleet of roller-skating carhops, even as other restaurants were cutting back. He came up with a slogan -- ''Service with the Speed of Sound'' -- and trademarked the Sonic name in 1959.
 Mr. Smith used the franchise model to attract young talent and develop workers into managers. In the early 1980s, however, the bleak economy and concerns about quality forced him to close 300 of his 1,300 restaurants.
 Mr. Smith stayed involved in Sonic for most of his life, even though he retired from managing day-to-day operations in 1983; he kept a seat on the board.
 Mr. Smith is survived by his wife, Dollie; a daughter, Leslie Baugh; a son, Troy Smith Jr., known as Butch; eight grandchildren; and nine great-grandchildren.
 In his business interactions, he was known for chuckling in the face of bad news and greeting colleagues with effusive praise. In September, when he could not appear at a company convention because of his health, he taped a message for company employees, apologizing for not thanking them enough over the years.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Troy N. Smith Sr., in 2001.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SONIC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); FAST FOOD (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); TRUCK DRIVERS (77%); ARMIES (77%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (77%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); AIR FORCES (71%); HISTORY (70%); SPECIAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (61%)

COMPANY: SONIC CORP (72%)

TICKER: SONC (NASDAQ) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (72%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (92%) OKLAHOMA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2009



85 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: Help Small Businesses Hire Again

BYLINE: By MARK ZANDI. 
Mark Zandi is the chief economist at Moody's Economy.com.

DATELINE: West Chester, Pa. 

 BODY:
 THE Great Recession is over. The solid 3.5 percent gain in gross domestic product during the third quarter proves that the longest, broadest and most severe American downturn since the 1930s has finally given way to recovery. It is no accident that the recession ended just as Washington's fiscal stimulus program began providing its maximum impetus to the economy. If the financial crisis had been allowed to continue unchecked by aggressive government action, we would not yet have reached a turning point.
 Still, the recovery remains fragile. No doubt, there will be moments in the coming months when the economy appears liable to falter again. In order to ensure that today's tentative recovery becomes a lasting expansion, the government must now make it a priority to deal with employment -- particularly among small businesses. 
 Small businesses are especially vital to job growth. Establishments with fewer than 20 employees account for 25 percent of all jobs, but these same-sized companies generated 40 percent of the job growth in the last economic expansion, from 2003 to 2007. In their recent efforts to recharge the economy, policy makers have all but forgotten small business, finding it both easier and more visible to help large multinational firms. Unfortunately, though, big business can't provide the jobs needed to power the economy forward.
 Businesses may not be shedding jobs as aggressively as they were earlier this year, but they still aren't hiring. Unless they start doing so soon, consumers won't have the wherewithal to keep spending, and the economy could slip back into recession. A cycle of falling wages and prices would likely begin, adding to the danger and giving the Fed and Congress fewer options and resources to respond.
 It is conceivable that businesses will resume hiring soon. Employment growth historically lags a pickup in gross domestic product. But firms typically increase production by first increasing workers' hours and adding temporary help. Neither has happened so far: working hours remain stuck at a record low of 33 hours a week, and the number of temporary jobs is still in decline (nearly a million have been lost in the past three years).
 Small firms are now struggling to obtain credit; their principal lenders, small banks, are under intense pressure, and hundreds more are set to be taken over by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Credit card lenders, another key source of loans to small business, have aggressively raised their underwriting standards. Policy makers could offer quick relief by empowering the Small Business Administration to provide more credit. 
 The Small Business Administration guarantees bank loans to small businesses, but banks aren't making very many because the loan's interest rates are capped at less than 6 percent -- not enough to compensate for their risks at a time when business bankruptcies are high and rising. Creditworthy small firms would gladly pay somewhat higher rates to obtain credit. Increasing the maximum size of an S.B.A. loan and temporarily raising the percentage of the loan guarantees to as high as 97.5 percent, from 90 percent, would also prompt much more lending. 
 To help small companies with cash flow, policy makers should also extend provisions in the current stimulus bill that allow money-losing firms to receive refunds of taxes paid on profits earned in previous years. (In return, they agree to pay higher taxes in the future.) Rules permitting such refunds are scheduled to expire at the end of this year; an extension through next year would provide quick cash for many firms that might otherwise be forced to close. Given the tens of thousands of bankruptcies in the works by businesses of all sizes, expanding this tax benefit to bigger firms than are now permitted in the stimulus package would be a plus. Allowing companies with as many as 250 employees to take advantage of the benefit could potentially help well more than a quarter-million firms.
 Finally, the government could help minimize the number of new job losses by promoting work-share programs. Nothing damages morale at a company more than layoffs; the experience not only is crushing for those who lose their jobs, but also weighs on those who remain, including managers. Layoffs are also costly, given severance expenses and the costs of rehiring or training new employees when business picks up again. Seventeen states offer effective work-share programs. Under these arrangements, employers cut workers' hours -- not their jobs -- and states make up a portion of workers' lost wages with unemployment insurance payments. Congress should provide financing to expand such programs nationwide.
 These policy steps would not be free, but they could be surprisingly economical. Most of the credit and cash provided by taxpayers up front would come back; loans would be repaid and businesses that are given tax refunds would pay higher taxes on their future profits. This kind of help from Washington could help sustain the new signs of recovery and firmly put the recession behind us.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATTHEW HOLLISTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); RECESSION (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); INTEREST RATES (60%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (60%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (51%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (62%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2009



86 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Bargaining for Rates

BYLINE: By JANE L. LEVERE

 BODY:
Travel management companies are in the midst of negotiating next year's hotel and airline rates on behalf of their corporate clients, an annual ritual that was thrown into turmoil last fall when the economy collapsed, dragging down business travel with it.
 The question this fall is whether the rates negotiated now will stick or whether they will be renegotiated and renegotiated again, as they often were over the last year. 
 At the moment, according to travel management company executives and other industry experts, companies have the most leverage over hotel rates, since the supply far outstrips demand in many business travel destinations. 
 But, the travel managers say, companies have far less control over airfares, particularly those set by American carriers, which have significantly cut capacity and, along with it, much of the wiggle room in negotiations. 
 What is still on the table with the airlines, the travel managers say, are allocations of elite frequent-flier program status or upgrades, which can lead to a waiver of fees for baggage checking and other services.
 Whatever rates are negotiated, corporations are expected to manage their employees' travel expenditures even more stringently next year. A forecast of 2010 costs, issued last month by the National Business Travel Association, a trade group of corporate travel buyers, found that 71 percent of the group's members planned to reduce nonessential travel next year. 
 In a survey being released Tuesday of travel manager clients of Egencia, the travel management arm of Expedia, 52 percent of the managers say they now rigorously enforce their company's travel policy, compared with 44 percent of those polled in October 2008. 
 American Express and Carlson Wagonlit Travel have forecast that fares on flights used by business travelers will rise in 2010, although both are projecting smaller increases for domestic flights than for international flights. 
 The Hogg Robinson Group, a travel management company based in Britain, does not anticipate a lot of fare increases in 2010, said Stewart Harvey, group client director. But, he added: ''I do expect to see increases in additive income, fees. I think there will be far more price increases loaded onto those.'' 
 Carol Salcito, president of Management Alternatives, a travel consulting company in Norwalk, Conn., said airlines had been giving her large corporate clients discounts from 5 percent to as much as 50 percent, if the companies were willing to purchase specific numbers of seats on specific routes. 
 As to the hotel rate negotiations, Bjorn Hanson, a clinical associate professor at the Preston Robert Tisch Center at New York University, said corporations' leverage ''has never been greater, because occupancy is at historic all-time lows,'' estimated at about 55 percent this year. The only times when occupancy rates have been lower were in 1971 and 1933, he said. 
 American Express forecasts that hotel rates could fall as much as 4 percent or rise as much as 2 percent on average worldwide next year, depending on the type of hotel. It expects the greatest increases in the Asia-Pacific market. Carlson Wagonlit expects hotel rates in North America to be flat or to decline by as much as 8 percent from last year. 
 Hogg Robinson also expects hotel rates worldwide to be flat except in Shanghai, Beijing and Abu Dhabi, where Mr. Harvey predicts that hotel rates will rise 5 to 6 percent. 
 Egencia predicts the ability of corporations to negotiate 2010 hotel rates will be ''strong'' in most North American cities except Boston and Washington, as well as in Amsterdam, Barcelona, Madrid, Milan and throughout Asia. 
 Besides negotiating hotel rates, travel management executives say corporations are asking for -- and often receiving -- amenities like free breakfast, Wi-Fi or high-speed Internet access and health club use.
 What is also being negotiated, said Craig Banikowski, president of the National Business Travel Association, ,are the services of the travel management companies themselves. About a quarter of association members said they planned to renegotiate such contracts in 2010.
 Mark L. Walton, a principal of Consulting Strategies, a travel management consulting company in Buffalo Grove, Ill., said corporate travel buyers were now using an automated, reverse-auction system to get competing bids for both travel management companies' services and for hotel rates, yet another sign of the buyers' control. 
 Perhaps the biggest unanswered question is whether air and hotel rates now being negotiated will hold firm. 
 ''In 2009, I think an unhealthy pattern of renegotiation was established,'' Mr. Harvey said. ''I think it will continue in 2010.''
 Henry H. Harteveldt, travel analyst for Forrester Research, said he, too, was not sure this round of negotiations would hold. ''I hope what's negotiated now will stick, because this will mean the economy is more stable and demand is slightly better,'' he said. ''But if anything significant happens to the global economy, all bets are off.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 12, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on the Itineraries page on Nov. 3 with an article about travel management companies' negotiating rates for the coming year referred incorrectly to the Peninsula Hotel in Shanghai. It is a new hotel; it is not newly renovated.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The newly renovated Peninsula Hotel in Shanghai, one of the few cities where hotel rates are still rising. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIPPE LOPEZ/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (90%); AIR FARES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (79%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (78%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

COMPANY: CARLSON WAGONLIT TRAVEL INC (85%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (54%); HOGG ROBINSON GROUP PLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUSINESS TRAVEL ASSOCIATION (55%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (54%); HRG (LSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (85%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (85%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (59%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2009



87 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW 'DARYL GLENN AND JO LYNN BURKS PLAY AND SING ROBERT ALTMAN'S 'NASHVILLE''; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 431 words

HEADLINE: A Tribute to 'Nashville' (Altman's, not Parton's)

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
A satire of a satire made with love: if that description of the revue ''Daryl Glenn and Jo Lynn Burks Play and Sing Robert Altman's 'Nashville' '' sounds self-contradictory (how many satires emanate from love?), it evokes the heartfelt nostalgia of a popular little show that has been playing at the Metropolitan Room on the first Sunday each month. 
 You may recall that Robert Altman's great 1975 film, ''Nashville,'' the object of the revue's slightly campy veneration, offered a jaundiced vision of Music City as a symbol of all that was both right and wrong with the United States on the eve of the Bicentennial. Because most of its songs, including Keith Carradine's Oscar-winning hit, ''I'm Easy,'' were written and performed by people outside the country music establishment, none, including ''I'm Easy,'' which became a mid-size pop hit, made a dent on the country music charts. One of the songs, ''It Don't Worry Me,'' heard twice in the show, resonates with the current recession. 
 But even the movie's best songs by Mr. Carradine and Ronee Blakely were imitations of the real thing, and I would add not as well made or as authentic as what they were parodying. The movie conveyed a sense of its creators as Hollywood city slickers on a slumming expedition with their noses tilted up, as they celebrated the vitality of the common folk with an urbane condescension. Nashville got the message. 
 The revue's playful attitude is exemplified by a trivia contest in which Mr. Glenn and Ms. Burks (who plays piano, arranged the music for an able country ensemble and sings Ms. Blakely's numbers) ask the audience questions about the details of the story and the film's casting. Ms. Blakely's ''Tapedeck in His Tractor'' is now a duet between Ms. Burks and Mr. Glenn, who gives it a gay spin when he takes over the number. 
 Mr. Glenn sounds enough like Mr. Carradine to carry off ''I'm Easy.'' Ms. Burks is not as distinctive vocally as Ms. Blakely, whose troubled character, Barbara Jean, was inspired by Loretta Lynn. But she lends some clout to Barbara Jean's signature song, ''My Idaho Home.'' 
 In the end it is Mr. Glenn's unconditional love for ''Nashville'' that trumps any condescension and makes the revue that kind of light-hearted entertainment that, if expanded, might have a chance for an Off Broadway run. But in Nashville itself? No way. 
 The next performance of ''Daryl Glenn and Jo Lynn Burks Play and Sing Robert Altman's 'Nashville,' '' is Dec. 6, at the Metropolitan Room, 34 West 22nd Street, Flatiron district, (212) 206-0440, metropolitanroom.com. 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 4, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A music review on Tuesday about ''Daryl Glenn and Jo Lynn Burks Play and Sing Robert Altman's 'Nashville,' '' at the Metropolitan Room, misspelled the surname of a singer and songwriter who performed some of her own songs in the film ''Nashville.'' She is Ronee Blakley, not Blakely.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Daryl Glenn and Jo Lynn Burks Play and Sing Robert Altman's 'Nashville,' a satire of the satirical 1975 film, at the Metropolitan Room.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD TERMINE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTRY MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); MUSIC (89%); FILM (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (75%); POP & ROCK (70%); RECESSION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); MOVIE CASTING (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (94%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2009



88 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: Shares Regain Modestly On Manufacturing Uptick

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Shares showed modest gains on Monday, the first day of trading since the market took one of its steepest plunges in months. Signs that manufacturing in the United States was on a path to recovery helped buoy shares. 
 The market surged in early trading, then pulled back at midday. By the close, the skittishness of investors over the health of the economy, the source of much anxiety on Friday, appeared to have receded slightly. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 76.71 points, or 0.79 percent, at 9,789.44. The Standard and Poor's 500-stock index was up 6.69 points, or 0.65 percent, at 1,042.88, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index was up 4.09 points, or 0.20 percent, at 2,049.20. Shares of companies that produce consumer staples like food and tobacco led the gains.
 A report by the Institute for Supply Management said the health of the manufacturing sector was at its highest level in three years, substantially beating Wall Street expectations. In addition, a separate report showed increases in the number of home sales, offering hope that a critical sector might be headed for revival.
 On Friday, the major averages posted some of the biggest losses in months, with the Dow tumbling 250 points, or 2.5 percent, and the S.& P. 500 falling 2.8 percent.
 Many Wall Street analysts wonder whether the drops on Friday were simply an adjustment in the market after weeks of steady gains, or a harbinger of dreary days to come. Over the last seven months, stocks have rallied at a remarkable pace, leaving some analysts skeptical that the momentum could last much longer. 
 John F. Merrill, chief investment officer at Tanglewood Wealth Management in Houston, said the ups and downs in recent days were the result of investors looking to latch on to any piece of news that beat expectations.
 ''There's a seesaw or a tug of war going on between those who want to be more invested and those who don't,'' he said. ''Those who want to be more invested are looking for reasons to get there.''
 Investors were also encouraged by news that the Ford Motor Companyposted a higher-than-expected profit of $997 million in the third quarter, its first profitable quarter in North America in more than four years. Ford said cost-cutting and the government's cash-for-clunkers program helped drive up its earnings. Ford's stock was up 8.29 percent at $7.58, but gave back almost half of the gain after the close of trading.
 European markets turned upward, with the FTSE 100 in Britain up 1.19 percent, the CAC 40 in France up 0.88 percent, and the DAX in Germany 0.29 percent higher.
 The euro strengthened to $1.48. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 9/32, to 101 23/32, and the yield rose to 3.41 percent from 3.38 percent on Friday.
 A key economic indicator will come on Friday, when the government releases its monthly report on unemployment. The jobless rate is expected to rise slightly, to 9.9 percent, but a sharp deviation could sway markets significantly.
 Following are the results of the Treasury auction Monday of three- and six-month bills:

GRAPHIC: CHART: 3-MONTH TREASURY BILLS: High rate at weekly auction. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); REAL ESTATE (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (74%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (69%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (74%); F (NYSE) (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (74%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (65%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2009



89 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; GOAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: Peeling Away Tradition and Studying Stats of Soccer

BYLINE: By JACK BELL

 BODY:
In their new book ''Soccernomics,'' the author Simon Kuper and the economist Stefan Szymanski do for soccer what ''Moneyball'' did for baseball -- put the game under an analytical microscope using statistics, economics, psychology and intuition to try to transform a dogmatic sport.
 ''The heart of the matter is that the thinking in soccer is outdated, backward and tradition-based,'' Kuper said in a telephone interview. ''It needs a fresh look based on data. There's a new global map, with countries like the U.S. and Japan already rising. And they will continue to rise at the expense of Europe as knowledge gets dispersed. And it's happening very quickly.'' 
 ''Soccernomics'' (Nation Books) presents some other, sometimes surprising findings. The country that loves soccer the most: Norway. One of the most maligned national teams, which is often the subject of news media hysteria, has actually punched a bit above its weight the past 20 years: England. The domestic dominance of Lyon, a club that previously had limited success playing in a provincial French city, found stability not with short-term coaches, but with a long-term sporting director, Bernard Lacombe. When it comes to acquiring players, buy low (as Lyon did with Michael Essien and Karim Benzema, and Nottingham Forest did with Roy Keane) and sell high. Avoid the urge to acquire players after big international tournaments because you are likely to overpay. After studying penalty-kick tendencies on video, a researcher correctly predicted where and how Chelsea players would take their penalties during the 2008 Champions League final, won in a shootout by Manchester United. 
 ''Of course the specifics are different than baseball, where there is more data, but what Bill James does for me is to look at sports from the outside,'' Kuper said. ''The importance of data in soccer has been underestimated. You need to get rid of the mystique and look at it in a cold way. There's a reason the Oakland A's don't let their managers make picks in the amateur draft. The coach/manager is a middle manager, not concerned with the long term.''
 Perhaps the authors' most contentious assertion is that the balance of power in global soccer is about to change because of three factors -- population, wealth and experience. And that, Kuper said, means that countries like the United States, China and even India have the potential to be among the sport's elite.
 ''The U.S., China and India are shooting up in income and population,'' Kuper said. ''They may have little experience, in terms of coaching, but they can get it quickly. That's one reason I think the U.S. has not done better. Some people take the view that the U.S. needs an American coach. I don't think that's correct. The best coaching week in and week out is in Western Europe, and the U.S. needs to adopt the best practices. And if you want to win, send all your best players to play in Europe and hire all your coaches from Europe.''
 Major League Soccer
 Dietmar Beiersdorfer, a German who was recently appointed the sporting director for Red Bull soccer operations in the United States, Austria, Germany, Ghana and Brazil, is in New Jersey as the local M.L.S. team inches toward naming a new coach and sporting director.
 The Red Bulls spokesman Andy McGowan confirmed that Beiersdorfer was in New Jersey to discuss the future of the club, which went to the M.L.S. championship game last year but finished the 2009 season with the worst record in the league. Juan Carlos Osorio resigned late in the season and was replaced on an interim basis by Richie Williams.
 Beiersdorfer did not respond to a voice-mail message, and the Red Bulls said it was unlikely that Beiersdorfer would be available for an interview.
 Beiersdorfer, who will turn 46 on Nov. 16, is expected to remain for a few more days in the United States before returning to Europe in time to attend Red Bull Salzburg's Europa Cup game against Levski Sofia in Bulgaria on Thursday.
 In addition for being responsible for the company's flagship team in Salzburg, Austria, which won the Austrian Bundesliga title last year and is coached by Huub Stevens, who worked with Beiersdorfer at Hamburg in Germany, Beiersdorfer is likely to have the final say on who will lead the Red Bulls into their new stadium next season.
 Notes
 The fourth round of the group stage in the European Champions League will be played this week, with eight games on Tuesday and eight on Wednesday. The most interesting: Bayern Munich-Bordeaux, A.C. Milan-Real Madrid, Dynamo Kiev-Inter Milan and Lyon-Liverpool.
 The United States will play Italy on Wednesday in the second round at the FIFA U-17 World Cup in Nigeria. The winner will advance to the quarterfinals against Switzerland or Germany.
 Week's Notables
 PLAYER In Nigeria, Bertrand Traore, 14, the youngest player and goal scorer at the FIFA U-17 World Cup, entered late in the match and scored as Burkina Faso beat Costa Rica, 4-1, on Saturday and advanced to the second round. Nigeria will play Spain on Thursday.
 CLUB In Spain, Johan Cruyff, 62, will become the coach of Catalonia, a region of Spain that fields a team but cannot play in official FIFA and UEFA competitions. Cruyff starred at Barcelona in the 1970s and coached the team from 1988 to 1996.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (90%); BASEBALL (89%); WRITERS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); AMATEUR SPORTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TOURNAMENTS (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (72%)

COMPANY: MANCHESTER UNITED PLC (53%)

TICKER: MANU (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (53%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (55%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%); CHINA (91%); JAPAN (79%); ENGLAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORWAY (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2009



90 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; N.Y.C. ELECTION 2009; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Just Before They Head to the Pools, New Yorkers Have Their Say

BYLINE: By KAREN ZRAICK

 BODY:
Interminable waits for the ferry. Endless road repair projects. Astronomical tolls. 
 People in Port Richmond, which sits on the north shore of Staten Island, say that on this Election Day no issue evokes as much ire as the transportation headaches that make getting off, on and around the island maddening. 
 ''It's an embarrassment,'' said Miguel Llinas, 33, an owner of Taza Churros, a cafe on Bennett Street near Port Richmond Avenue. ''Traffic can be a nightmare here.'' 
 Martin Olsen, 39, Mr. Llinas's half brother and the cafe's co-owner, added: ''There's an all-around need for more public transportation. This is like Los Angeles -- on Staten Island, if you live here, you need a car.'' 
 Residents complain that Port Richmond has no express bus service to Manhattan, that ferry service from the nearby terminal in St. George runs too infrequently at night and that there is no stop in their neighborhood on the Staten Island railroad. Meanwhile, drivers pay an $11 toll on the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge (residents using E-ZPass get a discount) and spend much of their time in traffic. 
 Paul Refalo, 30, a sculptor, who commutes by ferry and subway to an art shipping company in Long Island City, Queens, said he felt ''a little cheated'' by the lack of public transportation options. 
 A neighbor, Betsy Rosalen, 37, envied the bike lanes she sees in Manhattan and Brooklyn. ''We're here, we pay our taxes and deserve the same kinds of services that the other boroughs have,'' said Ms. Rosalen, who returned to school after losing her job in the financial industry. 
 Port Richmond, where City Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr., the Democrat running for mayor, opened a campaign office, has undergone a familiar cycle of abandonment and rejuvenation over the last 25 years.
 After years of decay, an infusion of immigrants, from Mexico, Peru, Ghana, Nigeria and elsewhere, has injected new life into the neighborhood. Today, the main thoroughfare, Port Richmond Avenue, is lined with small businesses, including taquerias and discount and ethnic grocery stores. Modest two-story homes line the surrounding blocks. 
 Many immigrants do not own cars, making public transportation an even greater priority, said Jody Stoll, 63, a college professor, as she finished brunch with Ms. Rosalen and Mr. Refalo at Los Potrillos, a Mexican restaurant.
 Gamelie Kuwonoe, 51, a limousine driver from Ghana, said education was a top priority, adding that the school his grandchildren attend is overcrowded. 
 ''I want the next mayor to pay the teachers very well,'' Mr. Kuwonoe said as he shopped in an African grocery store. ''He should make sure that they have qualified, trained teachers.'' 
 Jobs and the economy were at the top of the list for Amalio Estrada, 49, a musician from Mexico who works in construction whenever he can find someone to hire him. ''We don't have money for rent or food sometimes,'' Mr. Estrada said. ''I'd say, 'Mr. Mayor, please, give us a hand.' '' 
 KAREN ZRAICK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''We're here, we pay our taxes and deserve the same kinds of services that the other boroughs have.'' BETSY ROSALEN Student (PHOTOGRAPH BY PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: PORT RICHMOND, STATEN ISLAND 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); FERRIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); MAYORS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (88%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (88%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (86%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (78%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (76%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (73%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (73%); TEACHER EDUCATION (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); CHILDREN (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (65%); VISUAL ARTISTS (65%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); GHANA (92%); NIGERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2009



91 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW 'ECLIPSED'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: Prisoners of War and Sex in Liberia

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN 

 BODY:
Subjugation and corruption are the grim options available to the women of ''Eclipsed,'' a new play by Danai Gurira (''In the Continuum'') at the Yale Repertory Theater here. Set in 2003 during the Liberian civil war, the play focuses on four women held captive by the brutal leader of a rebel faction fighting against the government.
 Struggling to sustain their hope and humanity in a hopeless situation, some of them find the courage to ease one another's suffering, while others fall under the spell of the violence that has ravaged the country. 
 Like this year's Pulitzer Prize-winning ''Ruined'' by Lynn Nottage, which is set in Congo, ''Eclipsed'' depicts the harsh realities of women's lives in a strife-torn African country with both a clear eye and a palpable empathy. Although it is a less skillfully structured drama -- partly because the women here are even more powerless than the Mother Courage-like dominant figure in Ms. Nottage's play -- ''Eclipsed'' presents a complementary, no-less-harrowing portrait of women fighting to retain their dignity and a sense of self-worth under extreme duress. 
 Helena (Stacey Sargeant) has been with the rebels the longest. Abducted when the war first broke out more than a decade before, she is unsure of her own age, but has been tending to the ''commanding officer'' for as long as she can remember. She has also been taking motherly care of his other ''wives.''
 Through most of the play the women refer to one another by number, a gesture both practical -- they understand that they are commodities in the gruesome economy of war -- and defensive. Dissociating themselves from the people they used to be is a way of denying the permanence of their awful exploitation. 
 Helena is ''No. 1'': the first to be acquired, but no longer the most sexually desired. That dubious honor has fallen to ''No. 3,'' Bessie (Pascale Armand), still girlish and vain, but well into a pregnancy. 
 Helena has been trying to hide from the commanding officer a 15-year-old girl (Adepero Oduye), whom she has given shelter in the compound. (The powerfully atmospheric set is by German Cardenas.) But when the girl strays from their small, dilapidated refuge at night, she is discovered and made to join their ranks, becoming ''No. 4,'' and the subject of Bessie's anxious jealousy and Helena's despairing fear. 
 The new girl's curiosity about the absent ''No. 2'' is satisfied one day when Maima (Zainab Jah) swaggers into the house, an appraising glint in her eye, a machine gun slung from her shoulder, lugging a big bag of rice as both a boast and a peace offering. She has abandoned the duties of cook, housekeeper and sexual servant to take up the only other role available to her, as a soldier fighting alongside the rebels against the government forces of President Charles Taylor. 
 The tug of war between Helena and Maima over the soul of the new girl is one of the primary strands of the play's episodic plot. The other springs from the arrival in the rebel camp of Rita (Shona Tucker), one of the ''peace women'' Helena has heard rumors about, who are trying to broker a truce between the rebels and the government. Although Rita is based on a real-life figure Ms. Gurira interviewed during her research for the play, her role has its stiffer aspects, when she proffers speeches filling in the political and historical context, resulting in some obviously expositional patches. 
 The two separate narratives unfold in alternating scenes sometimes awkwardly stitched together. A brittle sense of hope is slowly fanned into life in Helena by her exchanges with Rita about the country's future. At the same time Bessie, seduced by the lure of fine clothes and luxuries like nail polish, is tempted by Maima to pick up a machine gun and join the battle. 
 The director, Liesl Tommy, who also staged the play's premiere at the Woolly Mammoth Theater in Washington this fall, elicits uniformly excellent work from the cast. Ms. Sargeant imbues Helena with a grave dignity and a quiet compassion that makes her humiliating experience all the more painful to consider. 
 Her mixture of resentment and admiration in her dealings with Rita is also tinged with a sad sense of wonder at how two women of the same country can live such radically different lives -- one a virtual slave, the other a respected businesswoman and political activist. (We can only share that sorrow and wonder.) 
 Ms. Armand's Bessie is touching in her simplicity and still blooming spirits; too young to know better, she has simply accepted the terms on which life has to be lived, concentrating on how much pleasure she can scavenge from her experience. 
 As the opportunistic Maima, Ms. Jah exudes aggressive pride in having escaped the bonds of sexual servitude. Her eyes have a cold, animalistic glint that speaks of the violence she has learned to perpetrate, but Ms. Gurira also allows her a measure of humanity in the empathy she still feels for the women whose suffering she no longer shares. 
 The transformation of Ms. Oduye's character --her name is never disclosed -- shows how easily the victims of war can be recruited to the ranks of perpetrators when civil war decimates the social codes that have held base instincts in check. Although she is more educated then either Bessie or Helena -- she helps pass the time by reading to them from a biography of Bill Clinton -- she is also younger and more easily corrupted. The monologue in which she describes the brutalities she is made to engage in once she has thrown her lot in with the soldiers is hair-raising. Ms. Oduye's quietly anguished delivery is powerfully affecting. 
 The play's conclusion is perhaps too tidy. The fates of the various women are changed in a moment when a truce is declared and the war is suddenly over. As the lights fade, only the future of one character is left hanging, as she stands before us, a gun in one hand and a book in the other, a somewhat too blunt image of the choices before her. 
 Ms. Gurira's play has made clear that those choices are never simple, that in the pervasive horror of a civil war most women have no power whatsoever over their own lives. 
 ECLIPSED
 By Danai Gurira; directed by Liesl Tommy; sets by German Cardenas; costumes by Elizabeth Barrett Groth; lighting by Marcus Doshi; music and sound by Broken Chord Collective; dramaturg, Walter Byongsok Chon; fight director, Rick Sordelet; vocal and dialect coach, Beth McGuire. Presented by Yale Repertory Theater, James Bundy, artistic director; Victoria Nolan, managing director. At the Yale Repertory Theater, 1120 Chapel Street, at York Street, New Haven; (203) 432-1234. Through Nov. 14. Running time: 2 hours 15 minutes. 
 WITH: Pascale Armand (Bessie), Zainab Jah (Maima), Adepero Oduye (the Girl), Stacey Sargeant (Helena) and Shona Tucker (Rita). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Eclipsed: Zainab Jah as a woman caught up in civil war in the play at the Yale Repertory Theater.(C1)
Adepero Oduye as No. 4, left
Pascale Armand as Bessie, seated
 and Stacey Sargeant as Helena are captives of Liberian rebels in ''Eclipsed'' at Yale Repertory.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CAROL ROSEGG)(C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (91%); THEATER (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); WOMEN (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); CIVIL WAR (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%) CONNECTICUT, USA (58%) LIBERIA (94%); UNITED STATES (58%)

TITLE: Eclipsed (Play)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2009



92 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Manufacturing Shows Signs of Strength

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
The United States economy still faces a long slog back to normalcy, but there were signs on Monday that the country's wounded manufacturing and housing industries were on track to recovery. 
 The overall health of the manufacturing sector reached its highest level in three years in October, according to a report from the Institute for Supply Management, and employment in the sector grew for the first time in 15 months. The recovery was driven by increases in production and declining inventories -- for example, assembly-line workers turning stockpiles of iron and steel into cars.
 Manufacturing executives heralded the numbers as an indication that this engine of the economy was in ''sustainable recovery mode.'' But some economists urged caution, noting the government's role in stimulating manufacturing through its cash-for-clunkers program, which offered thousands of dollars in credits toward the purchase of new vehicles. 
 And the number of new orders, an indicator of how busy factories will be in the months ahead, declined slightly, adding to concern that the revival of the manufacturing sector may be slow.
 There were also indications on Monday of growth in the housing industry.
 A report from the National Association of Realtors showed that the number of existing-home sales increased for the eighth month in a row in September. But part of that increase was attributed to a popular government tax credit for first-time home buyers, which is expected to expire in November. And economists noted that foreclosures would continue to inundate the market and drive up total inventory.
 ''We're finally seeing some natural momentum begin to take place in the housing market,'' said Bernard Baumohl, chief global economist at the Economic Outlook Group. ''It is absolutely essential to strengthen the housing sector to get this economy and the banks up and running again.''
 The construction of new buildings appeared to be on the rise. The Commerce Department said on Monday that spending on new construction had climbed by the largest amount in a year, reaching $940.3 billion. Economists look closely at construction because it provides insight into the business psyche and whether owners feel there is enough demand for their products to justify an expansion.
 Last week, the government reported that the United States economy had grown for the first time in a year, ending the longest recession since World War II.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); RECESSION (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (75%); EXISTING HOME SALES (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); FORECLOSURE (70%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (54%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2009



93 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Cellphones, Texts And Lovers

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Since April 2007, New York magazine has posted online sex diaries. People send in personal accounts of their nighttime quests and conquests. Some of the diaries are unusual and sad. There's a laid-off banker who drinks herself into oblivion and wakes up in the beds of unfamiliar men. There's an African-American securities trader who flies around the country on weekends to meet with couples seeking interracial sex. (He meets one Midwestern couple at a T.G.I. Friday's.)
 But the most interesting part of the diaries concerns the way cellphones have influenced courtship. On nights when they are out, the diarists are often texting multiple possible partners in search of the best arrangement. 
 As the journalist Wesley Yang notes in a very intelligent analysis in the magazine, the diarists ''use their cellphones to disaggregate, slice up, and repackage their emotional and physical needs, servicing each with a different partner, and hoping to come out ahead.''
 Often the diarists will be on the verge of spending the evening with one partner, when a text arrives from another with a potentially better offer. To guard against not being chosen at all, Yang writes, ''everyone is on somebody's back-burner, and everybody has a back-burner of their own, which they maintain with open-ended texts.''
 The atmosphere is fluid, like an eBay auction. This leads to a series of marketing strategies. You don't want to appear too enthusiastic. You want to invent detached nicknames for partners. ''Make plans to spend day with the One Who Cries,'' a paralegal, 26, from the East Village writes. You want to appear bulletproof as you move confidently through the transactions. ''I have a Stage Five Clinger on my hands,'' a TV producer writes. ''He asks me to hang out again this coming Sunday. I do not respond.''
 People who send in sex diaries to a magazine are not representative of average Americans. But the interplay between technology and hook-ups will be familiar to a wide swath of young Americans. It illustrates an interesting roadblock in the country's social evolution.
 Once upon a time -- in what we might think of as the ''Happy Days'' era -- courtship was governed by a set of guardrails. Potential partners generally met within the context of larger social institutions: neighborhoods, schools, workplaces and families. There were certain accepted social scripts. The purpose of these scripts -- dating, going steady, delaying sex -- was to guide young people on the path from short-term desire to long-term commitment.
 Over the past few decades, these social scripts became obsolete. They didn't fit the post-feminist era. So the search was on for more enlightened courtship rules. You would expect a dynamic society to come up with appropriate scripts. But technology has made this extremely difficult. Etiquette is all about obstacles and restraint. But technology, especially cellphone and texting technology, dissolves obstacles. Suitors now contact each other in an instantaneous, frictionless sphere separated from larger social institutions and commitments.
 People are thus thrown back on themselves. They are free agents in a competitive arena marked by ambiguous relationships. Social life comes to resemble economics, with people enmeshed in blizzards of supply and demand signals amidst a universe of potential partners.
 The opportunity to contact many people at once seems to encourage compartmentalization, as people try to establish different kinds of romantic attachments with different people at the same time. 
 It seems to encourage an attitude of contingency. If you have several options perpetually before you, and if technology makes it easier to jump from one option to another, you will naturally adopt the mentality of a comparison shopper.
 It also seems to encourage an atmosphere of general disenchantment. Across the centuries the moral systems from medieval chivalry to Bruce Springsteen love anthems have worked the same basic way. They take immediate selfish interests and enmesh them within transcendent, spiritual meanings. Love becomes a holy cause, an act of self-sacrifice and selfless commitment. 
 But texting and the utilitarian mind-set are naturally corrosive toward poetry and imagination. A coat of ironic detachment is required for anyone who hopes to withstand the brutal feedback of the marketplace. In today's world, the choice of a Prius can be a more sanctified act that the choice of an erotic partner.
 This does not mean that young people today are worse or shallower than young people in the past. It does mean they get less help. People once lived within a pattern of being, which educated the emotions, guided the temporary toward the permanent and linked everyday urges to higher things. The accumulated wisdom of the community steered couples as they tried to earn each other's commitment.
 Today there are fewer norms that guide in that way. Today's technology seems to threaten the sort of recurring and stable reciprocity that is the building block of trust. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); TEXT MESSAGING (75%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (74%); WRITERS (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (64%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2009



94 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: Fed Leaders Meet Bankers to Stress Limits on Pay

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
The heads of the nation's largest banks were summoned by Federal Reserve officials on Monday to discuss what is perhaps the most contentious issue of the post-bailout era: pay. 
 The meetings, held by the 12 regional Federal Reserve banks, mirrored the extraordinary gathering convened at the height of the financial crisis last autumn, when government officials sought to rescue the banking system from falling apart.
 This time, amid signs that the markets are stabilizing, Fed officials told bankers that they needed to re-examine their compensation practices, which have become a political flashpoint in Washington and a widely cited cause of last year's collapse. 
 In 20-minute sessions, Fed officials told bankers that they might need to fundamentally reform their pay practices as the agency moved forward with a comprehensive review of 28 large financial institutions. Fed officials imposed a Feb. 1 deadline for them to submit a written plan of any changes, but urged them to begin the overhaul now as they considered bonuses for 2009. 
 Flanked by their compensation committee chairmen, Vikram S. Pandit of Citigroup, Lloyd C. Blankfein of Goldman Sachs, Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase and John J. Mack of Morgan Stanley passed through the familiar iron gates of the New York Fed building in Lower Manhattan. The chief executives were joined by the American heads of several foreign banks, including Barclays, Credit Suisse, Societe Generale and Deutsche Bank. 
 Senior executives from Bank of America, Wells Fargo and roughly a dozen other large American banks were summoned for similar discussions with officials of the Federal Reserve banks in Richmond, San Francisco and other regional offices. Some talks were by phone. 
 The meetings were largely procedural, but packed with politics and symbolism, said six people briefed on the discussions. 
 The Federal Reserve has been criticized by some lawmakers for failing to rein in Wall Street's excesses and lax enforcement of consumer protections. 
 If new legislation passes that allows the government to formally take over large financial institutions, the Fed could see a vast expansion of current powers. 
 Some analysts questioned whether the meetings -- and the Fed's newfound focus on pay -- were largely a public relations exercise. Some of the bankers called them a waste of time and said they learned little beyond news reports last month that outlined the new pay guidelines and examinations, said people briefed on the meetings.
 But former regulators said that the pay reviews represented a more interventionist approach to bank oversight. Previously, Fed officials had been reluctant to weigh in on compensation issues, believing those decisions should be left to bank boards and managers. Now, they are viewing pay practices as basic safety and soundness issues for the financial system. 
 ''Supervisory initiatives can reinforce the impetus for change already coming from shareholders and market participants,'' said Daniel K. Tarullo, the Federal Reserve governor overseeing the compensation reviews, in a speech on Monday in Washington. 
 In New York and elsewhere, the meetings with the bank officials were brief and stiffly scripted. Few of the Wall Street executives asked questions. But Mr. Mack of Morgan Stanley said it would be helpful if the Fed harmonized their new guidelines with overseas regulators, because more stringent rules could put American firms at a disadvantage to foreign rivals. 
 Some regional bank executives described their sessions as uneventful. 
 ''I'm sure Goldman's meeting was very different than the one here,'' said one senior executive at a large regional bank who was briefed on the discussions. ''We could cut our pay by 80 percent and still not have the problems they have.'' 
 At around 12:30, William C. Dudley, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, began the meeting with the Wall Street chiefs by rattling off a list of talking points. 
 Fed officials outlined the process for its review of the industry's pay practices and the three core principles of their new compensation guidelines: incentive pay should not encourage excessive risk-taking; compensation should be part of good risk management; and banks should have strong governance practices. In other words, the structure of Wall Street's pay was the Fed's primary concern, not the amounts of individual bonuses, said the people briefed on the talks.
 Among the Fed's main areas of concern are lucrative severance contracts, multiyear guarantees for bonuses and ensuring that bonus payouts are properly adjusted for substantial risk-taking. Final guidelines will be published by the end of the year. 
 If the practices of banks are at odds with the new rules, banks will be required to submit a plan for improvements. Bank regulators and officials will then discuss a timetable for the changes, making it likely that many reforms might not take effect until late next year at the earliest.
 Even if there were few new details, the meetings did fill the room with some prominent business leaders -- including some board and compensation committee chairmen who have been at the center of their own pay controversies. 
 Mr. Pandit arrived with Richard D. Parsons, the bank's chairman, who raised eyebrows when he flew on the Time Warner corporate jet to his vineyard in Italy. 
 Mr. Blankfein arrived with James A. Johnson, the former chairman of Fannie Mae, who now heads the compensation panel of Goldman Sachs. Mr. Johnson's own pay came under fire from Congress during investigations into the troubled mortgage giant. 
 Lee R. Raymond, the former Exxon Mobil chief executive who now leads JPMorgan Chase's compensation committee, came in to attend alongside Mr. Dimon, its chief executive. Mr. Raymond's career pay of more than $686 million, including a $400 million retirement package, created a public uproar when he stepped down in 2006.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Federal Reserve Bank in Lower Manhattan, one of several locations on Monday for bankers' compensation discussions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); LEGISLATION (73%); CONSUMER LAW (67%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (62%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); GLE (PAR) (91%); GLE (BIT) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); DEUT (JSE) (90%); DBK (FRA) (90%); DBK (BIT) (90%); DBETN (JSE) (90%); DBA (ASX) (90%); DB (NYSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%)

PERSON: JOHN J MACK (65%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (56%); JAMES DIMON (51%); VIKRAM PANDIT (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2009



95 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg and Thompson Make Final Pitches to Voters Worried About Their Wallets

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO; David W. Chen, Joel Stonington and Karen Zraick contributed reporting.

 BODY:
On the eve of Tuesday's election, the top two mayoral candidates put aside their bitter arguments over term limits, campaign spending and the city's schools to try to reassure voters about a more pressing worry: the economy.
 With the unemployment rate at a 16-year high, tens of thousands of homeowners facing foreclosure and the city's budget deficit topping $5 billion, Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr. and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg offered strikingly different messages to an unsettled electorate. 
 Mr. Thompson, the Democrat, described two New Yorks. One, he said, was for people like Mr. Bloomberg: the superrich Manhattanites and Wall Street titans. The other was for hardworking wage-earners and small business owners who, he said, were being endlessly taxed and driven out of the city.
 ''We don't have a mayor who has stood up and fought for us,'' Mr. Thompson told a group of artists in Harlem. 
 He said the election ''is about whether we go down the same path where we push people out of the city, or do we go down a different path and for the first time in years put somebody on the side of those who work each and every single day.''
 Mr. Bloomberg, during a tour of the five boroughs, dropped in on small businesses and greeted commuters, stressing his financial acumen and background as a businessman. 
 He acknowledged the troubled economy -- ''it has big problems'' -- but did not seem eager to dwell on it, instead emphasizing the stories of small businesses that have thrived: ''We're trying to help small businesses that need loans, give them advice on how to structure a loan application, or how to deal with city government, trying to reduce taxes.''
 At each stop, the mayor, who founded the giant financial data firm that bears his name, dispensed C.E.O.-knows-best advice to business owners. ''The answer for small business, really,'' he said, ''is to find something unique -- unique may be being in the neighborhood, unique may be customizing.''
 He described his early days building up his business, Bloomberg L.P., after getting fired from Salomon Brothers.
 ''You get up every day with the thrill of doing something new, but you also go to bed at night with a sort of knot in your stomach saying, 'I wonder if I'm going to get through,' and most do.''
 But economic pains crept into his day, sometimes in poignant, unscripted ways. After buying some pastries at Holtermann's Bakery on Staten Island, the mayor was stopped by a man on the street who had fallen on hard times. 
 ''Mayor Bloomberg, with all due respect, I'm ready to go bankrupt,'' the man said. The mayor politely cut him off, saying, ''All I can do is try to help you.''
 Despite the mayor's healthy lead in the polls, the surveys show a big divide among voters along income lines. A Marist poll released on Friday showed that among registered voters, wealthier respondents overwhelmingly support Mr. Bloomberg, while the race is essentially tied among those who make less.
 Another gap exists among the boroughs; people in Manhattan and Queens strongly favor the mayor, while Mr. Thompson runs close with him in the Bronx and Brooklyn.
 In some neighborhoods, resentment over Mr. Bloomberg's spending on the race has intensified the sense of economic imbalance. The mayor is on track to spend more than $100 million to be re-elected, and some residents say his nonstop advertisements and mailings serve as reminders of how distant he is from their lives. 
 ''He should put that money into the community,'' said Lobsang Perez, 30, a fashion industry worker in Washington Heights, who stood on a street corner with his friends, complaining that that the only development in the neighborhood consisted of condominiums for the rich.
 With a return to the economic theme, Mr. Bloomberg seemed to quietly remind New Yorkers of his reason for seeking a third term: that his financial expertise was required to guide the city through an extraordinary time. 
 It is an argument that he offered with less and less frequency as the campaign wore on, in part to distance himself from his unpopular flip-flop on term limits.
 ''You don't hear the economic savior argument anymore, do you?'' said City Councilman John C. Liu, the Democratic nominee for comptroller who is expected to coast to election on Tuesday. He has endorsed Mr. Thompson.
 From the start of his mayoral run, Mr. Thompson has tried to summon populist rage over the city's battered economy, but it has at times felt like a secondary theme in a campaign built around anger over term limits. 
 On Monday, however, the economy took center stage in his remarks, and he sought to portray Mr. Bloomberg, and his policies, as out of touch. 
 ''We need to end this focus on just Wall Street and big business, and focus again on small businesses in New York,'' Mr. Thompson said. He was short on solutions, but he lashed out at the mayor for the city's high unemployment rate. ''It is a crisis. We need jobs across the city.''
 He criticized the city's practice, under Mr. Bloomberg, of blanketing neighborhoods with parking tickets and saddling businesses with fines over small infractions. 
 ''New York City is at war with its small businesses,'' he said. ''That needs to end today.'' 
 Mr. Bloomberg appeared attuned to the criticism, rattling off his record of assisting small businesses and placing thousands of New Yorkers in jobs. 
 ''Small businesses are the future of our city,'' he said in Brooklyn. ''I have friends who could easily move their businesses elsewhere, but what they tell me is the quality of the work here is better.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg at work at the Brooklyn bakery owned by Cake Man Raven, right. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 William C. Thompson Jr. campaigning Monday: ''We need to end this focus on just Wall Street.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); TERM LIMITS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); HOMEOWNERS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); FORECLOSURE (71%); BAKERIES (60%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (85%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (85%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2009



96 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1438 words

HEADLINE: In Iowa, Euphoria Gives Way to Doubts About Obama

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: WILLIAMSBURG, Iowa 

 BODY:
Pauline McAreavy voted for President Obama. From the moment she first saw him two years ago, she was smitten by his speeches and sold on his promise of change. She switched parties to support him in the Iowa caucuses, donated money and opened her home to a pair of young campaign workers.
 But by the time she received a fund-raising letter last month from the Democratic National Committee, a sense of disappointment had set in. She returned the solicitation with a handwritten note, saying, ''Until I see some progress and he lives up to his promises in Iowa, we will not give one penny.''
 ''I'm afraid I wasn't realistic,'' Ms. McAreavy, 76, a retired school nurse, said on a recent morning on the deck of her home here in east-central Iowa. 
 ''I really thought there would be immediate change,'' she said. ''Sometimes the Republicans are just as bad as Democrats. But it's politics as usual, and that's what I voted against.''
 One year after winning the election, Mr. Obama has seen his pledge to transcend partisanship in Washington give way to the hardened realities of office. A campaign for the history books, filled with a sky-high sense of possibility for Mr. Obama not just among legions of loyal Democrats but also among converts from outside the party, has descended to an unfamiliar plateau for a president whose political rise was as rapid as it was charmed.
 Interviews with voters across Iowa offer a window into how the president's standing has leveled off, especially among the independents and Republicans who contributed not just to his margin of victory in the caucuses here but also to the optimism among his supporters that his election would be a break from standard-issue politics. 
 For Democrats, the immediate peril of failing to hang on to some of these swing voters could play out Tuesday in the governor's race in Virginia, a state Mr. Obama wrested away from Republicans last year but where the Democratic candidate for governor has struggled to recreate Mr. Obama's enthusiastic coalition.
 In Iowa, Ms. McAreavy fears that the president's health care plan will shortchange her Medicare benefits and mean infrequent mammogram examinations. She worries that his decision on Afghanistan will mean that her son, a member of the Iowa National Guard, will return to the battlefield. And she believes that too many of Mr. Obama's actions are rooted in Democratic politics.
 ''All my Republican friends -- and independents -- are sitting back saying, 'Oh, what did we do?'' Ms. McAreavy said. ''I'm not to that point yet, but a lot of people are.''
 Mr. Obama still has generally strong approval ratings and the opportunities that come with a Democratic majority in Congress. Public opinion about him remains in flux, particularly as he heads into the endgame of a push to overhaul the health insurance system and nears a decision about whether to expand the war in Afghanistan.
 But an erosion of support from independents and disapproval from Republicans suggests that the coalition Mr. Obama built to win the White House is frayed. 
 In few places did people get a longer and closer look at Mr. Obama than in Iowa, a swing state home to deep strains of both conservatism and liberalism. Mr. Obama was a constant presence here during the formative months of his candidacy. Many voters have pictures of him on their mantels, looking him in the eye as they took a measure of the man and the politician before giving him a crucial victory in the caucuses.
 A social studies teacher who saw Mr. Obama on his maiden visit here wonders whether momentum from the election is gone forever. A retired electrical engineer who became a Democrat to support Mr. Obama believes that the president too often blames others for his troubles. And a teacher who voted for Mr. Obama because she was fed up with President George W. Bush does not trust this administration any more than the previous one.
 Yet a laid-off factory worker who returned to school for a degree said Mr. Obama's support for a new economy had changed his thinking. A public relations executive who changed parties to support Mr. Obama says he saved the nation from fiscal collapse. And a nurse who believes Mr. Obama could be a transformative president, because of health care and other issues, worries that the vitriol could endanger his life.
 The Iowa Poll, published in September by The Des Moines Register, showed that Mr. Obama's approval rating had fallen to 53 percent, from 64 percent in April. In interviews around the state, the economy emerged as one of the most worrisome undercurrents.
 ''I'm scared,'' said Chris Bollhoefer, 49, who lost his job two years ago at Maytag in Newton. ''The competition right now, with all the people who have lost jobs that are highly qualified, really puts you up against the wall trying to compete.''
 Mr. Bollhoefer said he approved of the job Mr. Obama was doing. ''It's inspirational to me that he's trying to do something different,'' he said.
 As a candidate, Mr. Obama soared, several people said in interviews, but as a president, he often has come across as cautious, tentative and prone to blame his troubles on others. 
 ''I think he was more presidential when he was running for office than he is now,'' said Paul Johnson, 58, a student legal services lawyer at Iowa State University. ''He seems more subdued, which is probably a result of having to actually deal with the issues on his plate as opposed to just rallying the troops to vote for him.''
 Mr. Johnson and his wife, Kathy, are loyal Democrats, but Mr. Obama was not their first, second or third choice during the Iowa caucuses that opened the party's primary on Jan. 3, 2008. At the time, the Johnsons favored, in order, John Edwards, Joseph R. Biden Jr. or Hillary Rodham Clinton. When Mr. Obama won the nomination, however, they eagerly supported him, and now they say they believe he is doing well, but they often wonder if he is assertive enough.
 ''It's overdue for him to actually take charge here,'' said Ms. Johnson, 57, a social worker in the town of Nevada.
 One thing that would sour them on Mr. Obama, they said, would be a steep escalation of the war in Afghanistan.
 Even with the complaints, many Democrats said the president had single-handedly improved the United States' image in the world. They said he had already accomplished a great deal, considering the raft of crises that greeted him, and they said they believed in his ability to deliver on remaking the nation's health care system and on other priorities.
 Candi Schmieder, 40, said she trusted the president. The election in Iowa County, where she lives, ended in a tie in November. Mr. Obama won by 14 votes after absentee ballots were tabulated. If a re-election were held today, she said, she feared that the outcome might be different.
 ''Given all the situations that he's dealing with -- the economy and the war -- I think it's going to take some work,'' said Ms. Schmieder, who had never been involved in politics but said she had been drawn to Mr. Obama by his books. 
 As Mr. Obama approaches the anniversary of his election, the sense of possibility and the dash of romance that moved many voters are no longer apparent. The challenges of governing have eaten away at the optimism. The pace of government intervention has also jarred many voters.
 John Sager, a retired electrical engineer, said he was so impressed by Mr. Obama last year at the United Auto Workers hall in Marshalltown that he allowed his name to be promoted on a list of Republicans supporting Mr. Obama before the Iowa caucuses.
 ''He gave a fairly decent presentation, but that's what it turned out to be -- a presentation,'' said Mr. Sager, 77. ''I don't think he should keep hiding behind the fact that he inherited all these problems.''
 Kathy Shaffer, 60, a retired school teacher, did not tell her husband, Larry, a staunch Republican, that she had she voted for Mr. Obama until recently. She said she had been frustrated by the Iraq war, fed up with the Bush administration and eager for a change.
 Now, Ms. Shaffer said she regretted her vote, largely because she disapproved of how the government had intervened to help failing financial institutions and car companies. She also fears that Mr. Obama will send more troops to Afghanistan. 
 ''I want to be a Republican domestically and probably a Democrat on foreign policy -- I'm in a lose-lose situation,'' Ms. Shaffer said. 
 Asked if her disappointment would keep her from supporting Mr. Obama again, she paused for a moment. 
 ''I hate to vote against someone,'' she said. ''I want to vote for someone.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CANDI SCHMIEDER: A 40-year-old resident of Marengo, Iowa, who says she still trusts the president.
PAULINE McAREAVY: A retired school nurse, 76, who switched parties to vote for Obama.
 President Obama won Marengo, Iowa, by 14 votes last November, but some supporters are now second-guessing their vote.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PHOTOGRAPHS BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (72%); NURSES & NURSING (69%); BREAST CANCER SCREENING (60%); MEDICARE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (97%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2009



97 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (NBC) THE BIGGEST LOSER In this special election night episode, the nine remaining contestants, including Rebecca, above, journey to the nation's capital for a race around the National Mall, a public workout at the Washington Monument and a visit to the White House kitchen, where they help the chef prepare a salad with vegetables from the garden. Later they weigh in by the steps of the Lincoln Memorial.
 7 A.M. (ABC) GOOD MORNING AMERICAJoel Osteen talks about his new book, ''It's Your Time''; Lisa Niemi discusses hers, ''The Time of My Life,'' which she wrote with her husband, Patrick Swayze. Carrie Underwood performs. 
 4 P.M. (ABC); 7 P.M. (55) THE OPRAH WINFREY SHOWKirstie Alley, Suze Orman, Martina McBride and Ms. Winfrey go back to their first jobs.
 4 P.M. (NBC); 8 P.M. (55) THE ELLEN DeGENERES SHOW Mo'Nique, left, speaks about her controversial role as an abusive mother in the film ''Precious: Based on the Novel 'Push' by Sapphire.''
 6 P.M. (Fox News Channel); 8 P.M. (Fox Business Network, 50); 9 P.M. (NY1); 10 P.M. (MyNetworkTV) ELECTION NIGHT COVERAGE Reports on the results.
 8 P.M. (ESPN) 30 FOR 30 In ''Without Bias,'' the fourth of 30 films created to celebrate the channel's 30th anniversary, Kirk Franklin looks back at the cocaine overdose of Len Bias two days after the 1986 N.B.A. draft and takes up some inevitable questions. Among them: how good could Bias have been? Has he become overrated or underrated over the years? And what actually happened that night? 
 8 P.M. (Sundance) BIG IDEAS FOR A SMALL PLANET Season 3 ends with a look at newborns and ways to soften their impact on the environment. The journalist Katrina Heron; Dr. Alan Greene, a pediatrician and the author of ''Raising Baby Green''; and the model and entrepreneur Cindy Crawford weigh in.
 8 P.M. (13, 49) BECOMING HUMAN: UNEARTHING OUR EARLIEST ANCESTORS In this three-part series on human evolution, ''Nova'' documents the recent discoveries related to our hominid relatives, starting with Selam, a nearly complete fossil of a child that reveals our ancestors' early development and our point of departure from chimps. The episode also examines the theory that sharp climate swings were a key factor in human evolution.
 8 P.M. (ABC) V In this reimagining of a 1980s mini-series, 29 huge spaceships appear over cities around the world, their visitors (called Vs) seemingly on a mission of peace. Or are they? Morena Baccarin plays Anna, the leader of the Vs. Logan Huffman is Tyler, a teenage boy who thinks the Vs are his ticket to something big. Scott Wolf is Chad, an egotistical news anchor who hopes to further his career through an exclusive interview with Anna. And Elizabeth Mitchell is Erica Evans, an F.B.I. counterterrorism agent who discovers why everyone should be very afraid.
 9 P.M. (HBO) BY THE PEOPLE: THE ELECTION OF BARACK OBAMA The filmmakers Amy Rice and Alicia Sams chronicle the odyssey of Barack Obama for 19 months as he campaigns for the nation's highest office.
 9 P.M. (Bravo) KATHY GRIFFIN: STRONG BLACK WOMAN In her latest stand-up special Ms. Griffin, right, takes aim at everyone from Paula Abdul to Dakota Fanning. Oh yeah, and herself.
 10 P.M. (CBS) THE GOOD WIFE Alicia (Julianna Margulies) agrees to a conjugal visit with Peter (Chris Noth) to obtain information on the case of a death row inmate.
 10 P.M. (13); 11 P.M. (49) POWER PATHS Ten percent of the United States' energy comes from American Indian lands, including hydroelectric dams and one-third of the country's coal deposits. The mines and plants have brought jobs to their regions. They have also brought pollution, cancer risks and environmental destruction. ''Independent Lens'' explores the efforts of American Indian tribes -- including the Sioux of the Great Plains and the Navajo and the Hopi of the Southwest -- to protect their natural resources and bring renewable-energy projects to their communities 
 10 P.M. (Bravo) TABATHA'S SALON TAKEOVER Tabatha Coffey, the first-season winner of ''Shear Genius,'' uses tough love and even tougher talk to help 10 failing hair salons survive the economic downturn. In Season 2 of her show she begins with the Orbit Salon in Chicago, which is about to implode from a lack of organization, passion and teamwork. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); WRITERS (89%); EVOLUTION THEORY (84%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); JOURNALISM (71%); CHILDREN (66%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (63%); COCAINE (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%)

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (74%); PATRICK SWAYZE (54%); CARRIE UNDERWOOD (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2009



98 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: Iran's Politics Stand in the Way of a Nuclear Deal With the West

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Mona el-Naggar contributed reporting from Cairo, Ellen Barry from Moscow, and Katrin Bennhold from Paris.

DATELINE: CAIRO 

 BODY:
Iran's leadership has once again equivocated after agreeing to a deal that would ease its nuclear standoff with the West. But this time, that may be as much a product of the nation's smoldering political crisis as it is a negotiating tactic, political analysts and Iran experts said.
 Tehran has yet to state publicly why it objects to the deal, in which it would ship its low-enriched uranium out of the country for additional processing and eventual return as fuel rods for a civilian reactor. But Iran experts say the very caustic, and very public, nature of the debate in Iran over the proposed nuclear deal suggests that the deep divisions cemented by the summer's disputed presidential election have complicated, if not undermined, the ability to resolve such a major issue. 
 ''Since the 1979 revolution it is rare for the political elite to disagree so openly with an issue of this significance,'' said Mehrzad Boroujerdi, a political scientist at Syracuse University.
 The announced agreement headed off efforts to impose tough new sanctions on Iran, yet patience may be waning. On Monday, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said that Tehran had to accept the deal in full, with no changes. And the British foreign minister, David Miliband, emerged from a meeting in Moscow with his Russian counterpart, Sergey V. Lavrov, to declare, ''We both want to see a prompt response.'' 
 But that may not be forthcoming, and the problem appears, at least in part, to be politics -- local politics. ''It is the worst case scenario because it can leave people with the impression diplomacy has been tried and failed, whereas in reality it came at a point when Iran is too politically divided and incapable of making decisions of this magnitude,'' said Trita Parsi, who writes frequently on Iran and is president of the National Iranian American Association, an advocacy group based in Washington.
 At the center of Iran's problems is President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who said recently that Iran should accept the deal, saying that his tough stance in past years had finally forced the West to accept implicitly Iran's right to enrich uranium.
 Mr. Ahmadinejad, however, deeply alienated both reformist and conservative political leaders since his disputed re-election as he tried to consolidate power and marginalize his rivals. Neither side is eager to see him and his nuclear negotiator, Saeed Jalili, take credit for resolving the nuclear issue and, with that, thawing relations with the United States, the analysts said.
 ''Even a potential deal that serves Iran's overall interests can be scuttled due to Iran's highly factionalized political environment,'' said Alireza Nader, an Iran expert with the Washington office of the RAND Corporation, a research organization. 
 Since he was first elected president four years ago, Mr. Ahmadinejad has been the face of confrontation. Now he is talking about cooperation with the international community while the so-called pragmatic conservatives have sharply attacked the nuclear agreement as a potential trick that would undermine Iran's rights. 
 Iran's reformers, stung by Mr. Ahmadinejad's past criticism of them for suspending enrichment, have also criticized the deal. Led by Mir Hussein Moussavi, a former presidential candidate, they have been looking to take a page from Mr. Ahmadinejad's own playbook, using the nuclear card to try to score political points.
 ''To have an opportunity to go at Ahmadinejad for not being nationalist enough, it looks like an opportunity for someone like Moussavi,'' said Michael Axworthy, a former diplomat and an Iran expert who lectures at the University of Exeter in England.
 The political attacks from conservatives and reformers are only one complication. The nuclear issue is of such importance, analysts said, that it is unlikely that Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, would be willing to risk undermining his already damaged credibility with conservatives and the public by accepting a deal that many argue would undermine Iran's interests.
 Another factor working against acceptance of the deal involves the widely held sentiment that Iran cannot trust the West, or Russia, which would first receive the uranium from Iran, to abide by the terms of any deal.
 Whatever the motivation, France and Germany warned Iran on Monday that there was a limit to their patience.
 ''We are waiting for a reply. If the reply is aimed at delaying matters, as we believe, then we will not accept it,'' the French foreign minister, Bernard Kouchner, said during a joint news conference in Paris with his new German counterpart, Guido Westerwelle. 
 Mohamed ElBaradei, the director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, also urged Iran on Monday to accept the proposal, which he said was ''aimed to engage Iran in a series of measures that could build confidence and trust.''
 Many theories about Iran's motivation have been discussed. Some experts speculated the leadership was employing a good-cop, bad-cop strategy, to allow the negotiators on the nuclear issue in Geneva to go back to the table arguing that they needed to sweeten the deal to develop a consensus. 
 Flynt Leverett, director of the Iran project at the New America Foundation and a professor of international affairs at Pennsylvania State University, said that a speech by Mr. Ahmadinejad last month showed ''Iran wants to cooperate with the international community in developing its civil nuclear program, but only under conditions that respect the Islamic republic's economic and security interests.''
 Iran's leaders have indicated they are ready to try to work out a deal, but may not be willing or able to shoulder the risk of completing one.
 The pragmatic conservatives, led by the speaker of Parliament, Ali Larijani, and his brother, Sadeq Larijani, the head of the judiciary, are now doing to Mr. Ahmadinejad what he has done to his political opponents for years -- undermining him by charging that the deal violates Iran's inalienable rights and that the West is trying to ''cheat'' Iran.
 ''They insist on going in a direction that speaks of cheating. They are imposing some things on Iran,'' Ali Larijani told the semiofficial ISNA news agency last month.
 From the moment he was first a presidential candidate four years ago, the president denounced the reform movement for having cooperated with the West, in particular charging that President Mohammad Khatami undermined Iran's security, pride and national rights by agreeing to suspend enrichment for two years. 
 If Mr. Ahmadinejad can cut a deal, begin to restore ties with the West and preserve Iran's enrichment program, reformists fear that the president could argue that he was right and they were wrong.
 ''It seems this is politics,'' said Mr. Parsi, ''but politics can still ruin the day.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran faces opposition to a uranium enrichment deal that he has said Iran should accept. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAHEB HOMAVANDI/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (52%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); SAEED JALILI (79%); DAVID MILIBAND (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2009



99 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: The Mayor's Bad Investment

BYLINE: By JOYCE PURNICK. 
Joyce Purnick, a former City Hall bureau chief for The Times, is the author of '', Mike Bloomberg: Money, Power, Politics.''

 BODY:
MEMO to the 108th mayor of New York, Michael R. Bloomberg: You didn't have to do it. You didn't need to set a new national campaign spending record. You didn't have to become a one-man stimulus program, employing costly campaign consultants, ad producers and all those ''volunteers.'' You didn't need that barrage of television ads, those wasteful glossy mailings or maddening robocalls.
 None of it. You are the incumbent. You are in and destined to stay in after today's mayoral election because -- unless unduly provoked -- New York voters don't reject their incumbent. They're pragmatic, even complacent, when their city is not in anguish. You could have spent more on your philanthropy and less on yourself and still be leading your Democratic competitor, City Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr., in the polls. 
 Too bad. Mr. Bloomberg once told me that a provocative high school teacher in his hometown, Medford, Mass., had aroused his keen interest in history, but that lesson obviously did not cover New York politics. A good look back could have saved him a lot of money. No incumbent mayor of New York City has ever lost re-election unless done in by corruption, financial ruin or racial tension. 
 In the last half-century, only two of seven mayors lost re-election -- three if you include Edward I. Koch's bid for an unprecedented fourth term. Abraham D. Beame failed after his ineffective response to a severe fiscal crisis. David N. Dinkins lost to Rudolph W. Giuliani after a single term marred by racial flare-ups, a crime wave and a bad economy. Mr. Koch might have won a fourth term if not hurt by a corruption scandal, though it did not touch him directly. 
 Even the beleaguered John V. Lindsay, who infuriated the white middle class and allowed damaging municipal labor strikes, won re-election against two rivals who split the opposition. And Mr. Giuliani easily gained the second term allowed under the city's new term-limits law -- the one Mr. Bloomberg and a most amenable City Council changed to allow themselves another dip. 
 And yet Mr. Bloomberg's expenditures in this campaign have already surpassed the $85 million he spent to win re-election four years ago, and could easily reach more than $100 million. By mid-October, the mayor had pumped an astonishing $245 million of his own money into his three mayoral campaigns -- more than any American has ever spent in pursuit of public office. That is not much to him; his wealth is estimated at $16 billion. But even the superrich make spending decisions and Mr. Bloomberg could easily have made this decision differently.
 When asked at a recent Crain's New York Business forum why he was spending so much, the mayor said it was because the city is overwhelmingly Democratic and he is now an independent (with Republican support). But Mr. Giuliani, proud Republican, easily won re-election, his questioner noted. ''It was a different time then,'' said the mayor, implying he is in a tougher fight. Really? Mr. Bloomberg, when still a Republican, handily won re-election in 2005, defeating Fernando Ferrer, the Democrat, by 19 percentage points. 
 New York's mayors benefit from more than the usual advantages of incumbency. They are all-powerful, enabled by a weak city legislature and encouraged by influential figures in business and the news media who have seen the damage caused by ineffective leadership. The city's mayor controls the budget, policy, perks, contracts, appointments; in Mr. Bloomberg's case, he has also disbursed generous personal philanthropic contributions to grateful cultural and civic groups. New York is so assertively mayor-centric that incumbents scare off potentially strong opponents; this time out, it was Representative Anthony D. Weiner of Brooklyn and Queens who prudently backed off.
 Mr. Thompson might now wish he had made the same decision. He is at a stark money disadvantage, and has no strong issue other than his complaint about the mayor's self-interested push to extend term limits. The mayor would no doubt be ahead in this race even if, instead of outspending Mr. Thompson by more than 14 to 1 (and counting), he had limited himself to his rival's spending -- a total of about $6 million as of last month. 
 Polls show the mayor is still popular, despite strong resentment about his brash tactics in overturning term limits. The city is stable and well managed -- and he is the incumbent. With a better understanding of New York history, he could have saved himself a few hundred million dollars and New Yorkers could feel as though he was asking for their votes rather than buying them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TERM LIMITS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); POLITICS (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); PHILANTHROPY (71%); CORRUPTION (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); SCANDALS (65%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (53%); STRIKES (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2009



100 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1426 words

HEADLINE: Spotlight on Gore's Dual Role As an Advocate and Investor

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Former Vice President Al Gore thought he had spotted a winner last year when a small California firm sought financing for an energy-saving technology from the venture capital firm where Mr. Gore is a partner.
 The company, Silver Spring Networks, produces hardware and software to make the electricity grid more efficient. It came to Mr. Gore's firm, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, one of Silicon Valley's top venture capital providers, looking for $75 million to expand its partnerships with utilities seeking to install millions of so-called smart meters in homes and businesses.
 Mr. Gore and his partners decided to back the company, and in gratitude Silver Spring retained him and John Doerr, another Kleiner Perkins partner, as unpaid corporate advisers.
 The deal appeared to pay off in a big way last week, when the Energy Department announced $3.4 billion in smart grid grants. Of the total, more than $560 million went to utilities with which Silver Spring has contracts. Kleiner Perkins and its partners, including Mr. Gore, could recoup their investment many times over in coming years. 
 Silver Spring Networks is a foot soldier in the global green energy revolution Mr. Gore hopes to lead. Few people have been as vocal about the urgency of global warming and the need to reinvent the way the world produces and consumes energy. And few have put as much money behind their advocacy as Mr. Gore and are as well positioned to profit from this green transformation, if and when it comes.
 Critics, mostly on the political right and among global warming skeptics, say Mr. Gore is poised to become the world's first ''carbon billionaire,'' profiteering from government policies he supports that would direct billions of dollars to the business ventures he has invested in. 
 Representative Marsha Blackburn, Republican of Tennessee, asserted at a hearing this year that Mr. Gore stood to benefit personally from the energy and climate policies he was urging Congress to adopt.
 Mr. Gore says that he is simply putting his money where his mouth is.
 ''Do you think there is something wrong with being active in business in this country?'' Mr. Gore said. ''I am proud of it. I am proud of it.'' 
 In an e-mail message this week, he said his investment activities were consistent with his public advocacy over decades.
 ''I have advocated policies to promote renewable energy and accelerate reductions in global warming pollution for decades, including all of the time I was in public service,'' Mr. Gore wrote. ''As a private citizen, I have continued to advocate the same policies. Even though the vast majority of my business career has been in areas that do not involve renewable energy or global warming pollution reductions, I absolutely believe in investing in ways that are consistent with my values and beliefs. I encourage others to invest in the same way.''
 Mr. Gore has invested a significant portion of the tens of millions of dollars he has earned since leaving government in 2001 in a broad array of environmentally friendly energy and technology business ventures, like carbon trading markets, solar cells and waterless urinals. 
 He has also given away millions more to finance the nonprofit he founded, the Alliance for Climate Protection, and to another group, the Climate Project, which trains people to present the slide show that was the basis of his documentary ''An Inconvenient Truth.'' Royalties from his new book on climate change, ''Our Choice,'' printed on 100 percent recycled paper, will go to the alliance, an aide said. 
 Other public figures, like Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Robert F. Kennedy Jr., who have vocally supported government financing of energy-saving technologies, have investments in alternative energy ventures. Some scientists and policy advocates also promote energy policies that personally enrich them.
 As a private citizen, Mr. Gore does not have to disclose his income or assets, as he did in his years in Congress and the White House. When he left government in early 2001, he listed assets of less than $2 million, including homes in suburban Washington and in Tennessee.
 Since then, his net worth has skyrocketed, helped by timely investments in Apple and Google, profits from books and his movie, and scores of speeches for which he can be paid more than $100,000, although he often speaks at no charge. 
 He is a founder of Generation Investment Management, based in London and run by David Blood, a former head of Goldman Sachs Asset Management (the firm was quickly dubbed Blood and Gore). Mr. Gore earns a partner's salary at Kleiner Perkins. He has substantial personal finances invested at both firms, officials of the companies said.
 He also serves as an adviser to high-profile technology companies including Apple and Google, relationships that have paid him handsome dividends over the last eight years.
 Mr. Gore's spokeswoman would not give a figure for his current net worth, but the scale of his wealth is evident in a single investment of $35 million in Capricorn Investment Group, a private equity fund started by his friend Jeffrey Skoll, the first president of eBay.
 Ion Yadigaroglu, a co-founder of Capricorn, said that Mr. Gore does not sit on the fund's investment committee, but obviously agrees with the partners' strategy of putting long-term money into promising ventures in energy, technology and health care around the globe.
 ''Aspirationally,'' said Mr. Yadigaroglu, who holds a doctorate from Stanford in astrophysics, ''we're trying to make more money than others doing the same thing and do it in a way that is superior in ethics and impacts.''
 Mr. Gore has said he invested in partnerships and funds that try to identify and support companies that are advancing cutting-edge green technologies and are paving the way toward a low-carbon economy.
 He has a stake in the world's pre-eminent carbon credit trading market and in an array of companies in bio-fuels, sustainable fish farming, electric vehicles and solar power.
 Capricorn holds a major stake in Falcon Waterfree Technologies, the world's leading maker of waterless urinals. Generation has holdings in Ausra, a solar energy company based in California, and Camco, a British firm that develops carbon dioxide emissions reduction projects. Kleiner Perkins has a green ventures fund with nearly $1 billion invested in renewable energy and efficiency concerns.
 Mr. Gore also has substantial interests in technology, media and biotechnology ventures that have no direct tie to his environmental advocacy, an aide said.
 Mr. Gore is not a lobbyist, and he has never asked Congress or the administration for an earmark or policy decision that would directly benefit one of his investments. But he has been a tireless advocate for policies that would move the country away from the use of coal and oil, and he has begun a $300 million campaign to end the use of fossil fuels in electricity production in 10 years.
 But Marc Morano, a climate change skeptic who until recently was a top aide to Senator James M. Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma, said that what he saw as Mr. Gore's alarmism and occasional exaggerations distorted the debate and also served his personal financial interests.
 Mr. Gore has testified numerous times in support of legislation to address climate change and to revamp the nation's energy policies.
 He appeared before the House Energy and Commerce Committee in April to support an energy and climate change bill that was intended to reduce global warming emissions through a cap-and-trade program for major polluting industries.
 Mr. Gore, who shared the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize for his climate advocacy, is generally received on Capitol Hill as something of an oracle, at least by Democrats. 
 But at the hearing in April, he was challenged by Ms. Blackburn, who echoed some of the criticism of Mr. Gore that has swirled in conservative blogs and radio talk shows. She noted that Mr. Gore is a partner at Kleiner Perkins, which has hundreds of millions of dollars invested in firms that could benefit from any legislation that limits carbon dioxide emissions.
 ''I believe that the transition to a green economy is good for our economy and good for all of us, and I have invested in it,'' Mr. Gore said, adding that he had put ''every penny'' he has made from his investments into the Alliance for Climate Protection.
 ''And, Congresswoman,'' he added, ''if you believe that the reason I have been working on this issue for 30 years is because of greed, you don't know me.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Former Vice President Al Gore, who has become a major voice around the world on the issue of climate change, spoke last month at a forum in Dubai.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARWAN NAAMANI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%)

COMPANY: KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%)

PERSON: AL GORE (93%); L JOHN DOERR (58%); MARSHA BLACKBURN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (68%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2009



101 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: A Glimpse Of The Future?

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
President Obama made an appearance in Florida last week that should have gotten more attention. At a time when many Americans are apprehensive about the state of the economy and uncertain about the nation's long-term prospects, Mr. Obama delivered an upbeat speech that offered a glimpse of a broader overall vision and a practical way forward on the crucial issues of energy and jobs.
 Speaking at the opening of a solar energy center run by the Florida Power & Light Company near Arcadia in rural DeSoto County, the president touted his administration's $3.4 billion investment in the so-called smart grid, a potentially revolutionary advance in the way electric power is produced and delivered in the U.S. 
 The president spoke at a scene described by The Times as ''futuristic,'' a sea of shimmering solar panels tilted toward the sky across the vast acreage of the DeSoto Next Generation Solar Energy Center.
 Mr. Obama said that the plant will produce enough power to serve all 6,000 residents of Arcadia. He added: ''Its construction was a boost to your local economy, creating nearly 400 jobs in this area. And over the next three decades, the clean energy from this plant will save 575,000 tons of greenhouse gas emissions, which is the equivalent of removing more than 4,500 cars from the road each year for the life of the project.''
 The energy center was one of dozens of projects receiving grants from the federal government and private industry for the development of smart-grid technology. These are the kinds of baby steps that, if encouraged, replicated and systematically expanded, can put the country on the road to a saner, more prosperous and more secure future.
 More significant than the size of the grants being handed out was the thrust of Mr. Obama's remarks, which sounded like a national call to action. He offered a compelling analogy:
 ''Just imagine,'' he said, ''what transportation was like in this country back in the 1920s and 1930s, before the Interstate Highway System was built. It was a tangled maze of poorly maintained back roads that were rarely the fastest or the most efficient way to get from point A to point B. Fortunately, President Eisenhower made an investment that revolutionized the way we travel -- an investment that made our lives easier and our economy grow.
 ''Now it's time to make the same kind of investment in the way our energy travels -- to build a clean energy superhighway that can take the renewable power generated in places like DeSoto and deliver it directly to the American people in the most affordable and efficient way possible. Such an investment won't just create new pathways for energy -- it's expected to create tens of thousands of new jobs all across America in areas ranging from manufacturing and construction to I.T. and the installation of new equipment in homes and in businesses.''
 The president then made the conceptual leap from an innovative plant in rural Florida to a bold new landscape of energy for all of America. ''We can imagine the day,'' he said, ''when you'll be able to charge the battery on your plug-in hybrid car at night, because your smart meter reminded you that nighttime electricity is cheapest. In the daytime, when the sun is at its strongest, solar panels like these and electricity stored in car batteries will be able to power the grid with affordable, emission-free energy.
 ''The stronger, more efficient grid would be able to transport power generated at dams and wind turbines from the smallest towns to the biggest cities. And, above all, we can see all this work that would be created for millions of Americans who need it and who want it, here in Florida and all across the country.''
 They were stirring words. It was a powerful and important call from a sitting president. On the same day, Vice President Biden announced in Wilmington, Del., that a General Motors plant that had been shut down would be reopened by a company that plans, with the help of loans from the federal government, to manufacture long-range, plug-in, electric hybrid vehicles. 
 What was missing from these appearances by the president and vice president was the feeling of excitement that should accompany the early stages of an important national mission. Mr. Obama made his appearance in Arcadia, delivered his remarks and quickly moved on to other matters. The nation was not moved. The president's remarks were not widely heard.
 The news media, perhaps understandably, took a ho-hum approach to both appearances. The reporters had heard similar rhetoric before. There were no signals from the White House that something big and important was happening.
 Mr. Obama's vision, briefly glimpsed, seemed to vanish in an ocean of other concerns. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); EMISSIONS (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); GRANTS & GIFTS (69%); GREENHOUSE GASES (65%)

COMPANY: FLORIDA POWER & LIGHT CO (71%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2009



102 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Sports Desk; ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: In Yankees Slugger, a Lesson for Redemption in the Steroid Era

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON

 BODY:
Aided by his bat and an astute apology, Alex Rodriguez is ending the baseball season not as a former steroids user but as a home run hero. In the process, he may be clearing a path forward for himself and his much-maligned sport.
 This may go down as the season that the fans forgave baseball -- or perhaps just grew tired of worrying about performance-enhancing drugs. Rodriguez and Andy Pettitte, two high-profile Yankees stars who were exposed as past users, are shining in the 2009 World Series.
 The St. Louis Cardinals recently announced they were hiring Mark McGwire, who went into seclusion for much of this decade after refusing to answer questions about steroids, as their hitting coach. And although neither has shown much repentance, David Ortiz of the Boston Red Sox and Manny Ramirez of the Los Angeles Dodgers continued to play to adoring crowds even after both were implicated this summer as past or present users.
 Until recently, players accused of cheating selected from two popular options: vehemently deny, as Barry Bonds and Roger Clemens have chosen, or remain silent, as McGwire has. But beginning with the admission last season by Pettitte that he had used human growth hormone, a third option has emerged: quickly apologize and move on. 
 ''Obviously, success on the field has helped, but isn't it something how they beautifully and effectively transcended their humiliation?'' said Richard Emery, one of the lawyers representing Brian McNamee, the physical trainer who cited Pettitte and Clemens in George J. Mitchell's investigation into steroids for Major League Baseball.
 Emery added: ''Watching the way all this has unfolded makes me believe that it was the stark juxtaposition of Clemens and Pettitte that changed the game. Alex had an easy road because Pettitte showed you exactly what you do when you're caught.'' 
 Will others who made a less judicious choice when they came to a fork in the road learn from Rodriguez? 
 ''There has always been a tremendous compulsion in the American DNA to cover up, and lie, going all the way up to the White House,'' the former baseball commissioner Fay Vincent said. ''McGwire got terrible advice, and I think coming back almost certainly leads to him handling this better. But with this issue, it's so obvious what to do now that maybe it even leads to Bonds and Clemens waking up, too.'' 
 Partisanship often plays a role in the steroid discussion, one city's hero being another city's target of abuse. But across a fairly wide spectrum, Rodriguez has already drawn, beyond leniency, a standing ovation from the court of public opinion.
 ''I never thought Alex Rodriguez was very interesting, but when a sports hero is forced into this admission of wrongdoing, it humanizes him,'' said Orin Starn, the cultural anthropology department chairman at Duke University. ''We want these athletes to astonish us, but we also want to imagine them as someone like us.''
 Flawed and accountable is what he meant. And although Starn said he was not sure Rodriguez's remorse and confessional version of drug consumption were as sincere and thorough as they might have been, ''he made the gesture.'' 
 In other words, he did not squander his iconic moment, as McGwire did in 2005 before Congress when he stonewalled upon being asked if he had taken anything beyond over-the-counter supplements. Rodriguez did not go the Clemens-Bonds route by summoning the defiance and machismo that serves so many great athletes between the lines but blinds them to consequences in civilian life.
 ''Because of their immense egos, Clemens and Bonds couldn't get down on their knees, do a little mea culpa,'' said Charles Yesalis, a professor emeritus of health policy and kinesiology at Penn State University.
 Clemens did not learn from the mistakes of Bonds, who failed to grasp the fundamental lesson of Pete Rose's continued ban from baseball for betting on games while the Cincinnati Reds' manager and being unable to come clean about it for years.
 Different offense, same stubbornness: instead of using his head, Rose lowered his shoulder, as if running through catcher Ray Fosse in the 1970 All-Star Game.
 ''I think in some cases, it just comes down to intelligence, and Rodriguez is significantly more intelligent than Clemens and Rose,'' Vincent said.
 In Rodriguez's case, his personality was always more acquiescent, wanting to please to the point of extremes and creating expectations he could not meet. 
 This season, Rodriguez finally found the answer, seemingly by looking over his left shoulder to his partner on the left side of the infield. Like Derek Jeter, he sought the security of simplicity. He lost the public-relations entourage. He lowered his news media profile. He separated himself from Madonna and took up with Kate Hudson, a more circumspect Hollywood star. He followed through on his spring training pledge to work with Don Hooton, an antisteroid activist whose program is aimed at high-school-age athletes. 
 As part of their agreement, Hooton would not reveal the extent of Rodriguez's commitment other than to say they had visited several schools. He did recall sitting with Rodriguez at a restaurant in Tampa, Fla., last spring, soon after his public admission, the two of them trying to figure out what his message would be. 
 ''He kept using the word 'balanced,' '' Hooton said. ''He said, 'Don, when I wasn't using steroids, I always felt more balanced, more whole, than when I did.' I said, 'Alex, that's your message right there.' Here we are, less than a year later, he's back to hero status. It's not all that complicated.''
 But the steroid debate has been confusing, a continuing argument about how much the public cares or should care. That, Vincent said, is part of a greater cultural problem.
 ''The reason why we can't find a solution on these things is because there is no clear consensus in this country on what's wrong in the first place at a time when there is so much that is wrong,'' Vincent said.
 All of which makes baseball, a form of daily escapism from spring through fall, that much more appealing to a population stressed out by a tanked economy, unemployment and unending wars.
 Athletes may be easier to forgive than politicians who not only cross the ethical line but also fail to deliver in the clutch on budget control and health care. For people inside the stadium or watching on television, uncomplicated resolution is much easier to come by as long as the offender keeps his eye on the ball, and has come clean.
 ''American people are tremendously forgiving,'' Yesalis said. ''And they don't ask too much.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); STEROIDS (90%); ILLICIT STEROID USE (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); PROTEIN BASED DRUGS (76%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); LAWYERS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: ST LOUIS CARDINALS (57%); BOSTON RED SOX (56%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (56%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (89%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (71%); BOSTON, MA, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2009



103 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEXICO CITY JOURNAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Where the Swearing Is All About Context

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY; Antonio Betancourt and Elisabeth Malkin contributed reporting.

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY 

 BODY:
Two teenage girls slurped iced coffee drinks at a sidewalk cafe the other afternoon and chatted away about boys, clothes, their weekend plans, whatever seemed to pop into their heads. They were clearly friends, but repeatedly referred to each other with a Spanish word meaning ''ox'' or ''steer'' or ''stupid.''
 The word -- guey, also spelled buey -- makes most lists of Mexican profanities, but it has been co-opted by the cool, young set as a term of endearment. One hears it constantly, as often as ''dude'' comes up in an English conversation. 
 Like many Mexicans, though, the teenage girls also dipped into a well-stocked arsenal of more potent curse words, most of which referred in one way or another to sex. Even those were uttered so casually, however, that they did not seem to carry much sting.
 Mexicans, despite their reputation in Latin America for ultrapoliteness and formality, curse like sailors, a recent survey found. They use profanity when speaking with their friends, with their co-workers, with their spouses and even with their bosses and parents. On Independence Day, the thing to shout above all else is ''Viva Mexico, Cabrones!'' a patriotic exhortation directed at either bastards or buddies, depending on the tone employed.
 Consulta Mitofsky, a Mexican polling firm, asked 1,000 Mexicans 18 and older about their use of ''groserias,'' as curse words are known in Spanish, and found that respondents estimated they used an average of 20 bad words a day. Those swearing the most, not surprisingly, were young people. ''The generation younger than 30 sees the use of bad words as more natural and they use them not only in front of friends but, many of them say, in front of their parents or bosses,'' the survey found.
 Geographically, the worst offenders were in the north, near the border with the United States, and in the center of the country. Men were generally more foulmouthed than women, though not by much. People of higher socioeconomic levels were also more profane, the survey found, than those supposedly lower on the scale of success.
 Cursing runs in families, the survey found, with those who acknowledged cursing the most saying that their parents used obscenities as well.
 Raul Trejo Delarbre, a sociologist at the National University of Mexico, said cursing can be done with creativity and can express emotions that are difficult to express with other words. But he also acknowledged that cursing can be just plain old cursing.
 Using barnyard language is certainly not a Mexican phenomenon, he said, unleashing a couple of common American curse words to make his point.
 Still, Octavio Paz, in his classic look at his country's psyche, ''The Labyrinth of Solitude,'' spent some time assessing Mexican curses. ''The forbidden words boil up in us, just as our emotions boil up,'' he wrote. ''When they finally burst out, they do so harshly, brutally, in the form of a shout, a challenge, an offense. They are projectiles or knives. They cause wounds.''
 Exactly what is considered a bad word in Mexico can require some interpretation. There are various types of insults, some comparing people to animals, others referring to the diminished mental capacity of the recipient. Others refer to sex, naturally, using that most Mexican of words, ''chingar,'' which the Royal Spanish Academy of Language says is a derivative of the word ''to fight'' but that in Mexico can be very offensive or very innocuous or virtually anything in between.
 ''It is definitely personal,'' the survey said of Mexicans' propensity for cursing. ''The same word applied in different contexts and in two different moments is seen in very different manners.''
 It is almost always obvious, of course, when a curse is meant as a curse. 
 A woman walking by a group of construction workers the other day left no doubt as to her message when the men whistled at her and she shouted out a response. The electrical workers who were recently fired by President Felipe Calderon also clearly wanted the worst impression possible to be read into the protest signs they lofted. One banner, a tame one, referred to Mr. Calderon as a ''pinche ladron,'' which can be translated as a ''damn crook.'' Pinche, though, can also be a word with no negative connotation at all, meaning a cook's assistant.
 A taxi driver who was trying to navigate through the electrical workers' demonstration also used a string of sexually charged expletives when it became clear that his Volkswagen Beetle was going nowhere anytime soon.
 It turns out, there is plenty to curse about in Mexico these days. The economy is in the doldrums, with a decline of 8 percent, one of the worst contractions in the world, expected this year. The politicians are up to their usual antics, and drug traffickers continue to rampage, competing with one another to see who can kill their opponents in the most gruesome fashion.
 ''I wouldn't say that the tension of everyday life causes us to use bad words,'' said Mr. Trejo, the sociologist. But then he seemed to reconsider, adding that an abundance of overbearing situations can certainly lead one to express frustration by swearing.
 All this cursing adds up. If the estimates are true, the survey noted that Mexicans use 1.35 billion curse words daily, or 500 billion annually. The study's authors, who probably sling their fair share of curse words, did not appear alarmed. ''We shouldn't be concerned when we hear such words, and it might be better to stop considering them curses at all,'' they said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers fired by President Felipe Calderon protested last month. One sign said Mr. Calderon would sell his mother if he could. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CLAUDIA DAUT/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); SOCIOLOGY (72%); FAMILY (71%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (67%)

PERSON: FELIPE CALDERON (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2009



104 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: Biden Stumps In a Race Transformed By the Right

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: WATERTOWN, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. threw the heft of the White House behind the Democratic candidate on Monday in a race for a vacant Congressional seat that both Democrats and Republicans view as significant tests of their political fortunes.
 In the final hours before the polls open on Tuesday, Democrats made a plea for the votes of moderate Republicans who have become disillusioned with their party's backing of a deeply conservative candidate in the 23rd Congressional District. The race erupted after a more moderate Republican candidate, under pressure from conservatives, abruptly ended her campaign over the weekend. 
 But backers of the Conservative Party candidate appealed to their ideological base, arguing that the party had to hold firm to its core values.
 Each side summoned all the political firepower it could.
 ''They may not have any room for moderate views in the Republican Party upstate anymore, but let me assure you, we have room,'' Mr. Biden told a crowd of about 200 people who gathered at a community center for a rally for Bill Owens, the Democratic candidate. ''I say to all those moderate Republicans, those decent-thinking folks who are pragmatic Republicans, 'Join us. We welcome you.' ''
 Mr. Biden's appearance, at a community center here, coincided with a visit by one of the Republican Party's better-known figures, Fred D. Thompson, an actor and former senator from Tennessee, who campaigned for the Republican-backed candidate, Douglas L. Hoffman. At a boisterous rally at the local fairgrounds that drew a significantly larger crowd than Mr. Biden's appearance did earlier in the day, Mr. Thompson praised Mr. Hoffman as the kind of candidate who understands people who think, ''I don't like the direction my country is going in; they're trying to change my country.'' 
 ''Constructive change is good,'' said Mr. Thompson, who has been a leading voice in a growing conservative movement that is disillusioned with President Obama and Democratic economic policies, ''but not on a dime.'' 
 The race, in the northernmost regions of New York, has deepened divisions in the Republican Party. Many Republicans have come to view the contest as a referendum on the kinds of candidates the party should pick as it looks to rebuild in next year's midterm elections. 
 The party's conservative wing, urged on by boldface names like former Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, drove out Assemblywoman Dede Scozzafava, the moderate candidate whom local party leaders had selected as the Republican nominee. Ms. Scozzafava withdrew on Saturday, making Mr. Hoffman the effective Republican choice, though he is running on the Conservative line.
 But Democrats also have an interest in the race because a victory in the Republican-leaning district would provide a boost at a time when they are fighting a battle to change the health care system and are concerned about losing seats in Congress next year.
 Democrats hope that they can pull off a victory by attracting voters who would have voted for Ms. Scozzafava, a supporter of gay rights and abortion rights, who defied her party on Sunday and endorsed Mr. Owens. 
 But Mr. Owens's supporters acknowledge that victory will not come easily; the area has been represented by Republicans for more than a century.
 Vocal conservatives are proving to be highly energized over Mr. Hoffman's candidacy. And if enough of them turn out to the polls, they could deliver the seat to him.
 ''This is sweeping through the country,'' said Mary Adasek, 60, a real estate agent from Canastota. ''People want change, and Doug Hoffman is a breath of fresh air.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Douglas L. Hoffman, right, in Watertown, is running on the Conservative Party line and has been endorsed by Sarah Palin and other high-profile Republicans (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES): Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. with the Democratic candidate Bill Owens. Mr. Biden made a pitch to moderate Republicans: ''Join us. We welcome you.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY BUTTOLPH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); REFERENDUMS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (92%); SARAH PALIN (59%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2009



105 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: A New Mayor for Miami

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
Tomas Regalado easily defeated Joe Sanchez on Tuesday to become Miami's next mayor, after promising voters a ''back to basics'' approach focused on improving city services and reining in developers. 
 With 113 of 128 precincts reporting in the nonpartisan election, Mr. Regalado led Mr. Sanchez, a fellow Republican, 72 percent to 28 percent. Mr. Regalado, a 62-year-old city commissioner, has been a constant critic of past administrations, including that of the current mayor, Manuel A. Diaz. 
 In a sign of the mood across much of recession-ravaged Florida, Mr. Regalado characterized his victory as a repudiation of grand plans -- like those of Mr. Diaz, who could not run again because of term limits after eight years of tackling big projects from condominium towers downtown to a new baseball stadium. He also promised to rid the city of several Diaz hires, including the police chief, John Timoney.
 ''We're going to recover our city and the confidence of our residents,'' Mr. Regalado said in his victory speech. ''And we will do it by not wasting money.''
 His victory, however, also seemed to be defined by low turnout. Just over 20 percent of Miami's 177,000 registered voters cast ballots. In the final weeks of the campaign, Mr. Regalado focused on his core constituency, elderly Hispanics, who appear to have come out strongly in his favor. 
 Mr. Sanchez, a 44-year-old city commissioner, campaigned on the streets, exhaustively. He regularly bragged about visiting 7,000 homes, losing 18 pounds and going through three pairs of shoes since the start of his campaign.
 But it was not enough. In the end, voters appear to have seen his record of support for Mr. Diaz as a liability, though in his concession speech he emphasized that his campaign was about giving Miami ''another option.'' 
 Mr. Regalado takes up his new post on Nov. 11.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); TERM LIMITS (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); BASEBALL (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



106 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: The Best Allies Money Can Buy

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
In 2003, I was on a trip to Iraq and had arranged an appointment in the Green Zone with a member of the then-Iraqi Governing Council. Security was tight. I was with my Iraqi translator, a middle-aged man who had once been a teacher. When we arrived at the council, after a long walk, I showed my ID to two young uniformed U.S. soldiers. They told me to wait, went inside and out came a man wearing civilian clothes, one of those fishing vests and an Australian bush hat.
 He never properly identified himself, but it was obvious that he was a ''civilian contractor'' from the logo on his shirt. When I tried to explain why we were there, he literally told me to shut my mouth until I was told to speak. Then he told my Iraqi translator to sit in the blistering heat while he escorted me -- the American -- inside to see if our Iraqi interviewee was available. I have to admit it: both my translator and I really wanted to just punch his lights out. But I kept thinking to myself: ''Who does this guy report to? If I get in his face and he comes after me, to whom do I complain?'' 
 That was my first encounter with one of the many private security guards, service suppliers and aid workers -- a k a civilian contractors -- who have since become an integral part of the U.S. war efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan. Some were even used at Abu Ghraib to do ''enhanced interrogations'' -- a k a torture -- of suspected terrorists. Today, there is no operation that is too sensitive not to outsource to the private sector. 
 As we debate how many more troops to dispatch to Afghanistan, it might be a good time to also debate just how far we've already gone in hiring private contractors to do jobs that the State Department, Pentagon and C.I.A. once did on their own. A good place to start is with the Middlebury College professor Allison Stanger's new book on this subject, ''One Nation Under Contract: The Outsourcing of American Power and the Future of Foreign Policy.''
 Every year, more and more of the core business of national security -- diplomacy, development, defense and even intelligence -- ''is being shifted into the hands of private contractors -- much more than our public realizes,'' Stanger said to me. One big reason why we've been able to fight the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq with so few allies is because we've basically hired the help.
 ''Afghanistan and Iraq,'' explained Stanger, ''are our first contractors' wars, differing from previous interventions in their unprecedented reliance on the private sector for all aspects of their execution. According to the Congressional Research Service, contractors in 2009 accounted for 48 percent of the D.O.D. work force in Iraq and 57 percent in Afghanistan. And the Pentagon is not the only government agency deploying contractors; the State Department and Usaid make extensive use of them as well. Contractors provide security for key personnel and sites, including our embassies; feed, clothe and house our troops; train army and police units; and even oversee other contractors. Without a multinational contractor force to fill the gap, we would need a draft to execute these twin interventions.'' 
 Or, we would need real allies.
 I am not against outsourcing, improving government efficiency or hiring the best people to perform specialized tasks. But we've fallen into a pattern of outsourcing some of the very core tasks of government -- interrogation, security, democracy promotion. As more and more of this government work gets contracted and then subcontracted -- or as Stanger puts it, ''when money and instructions change hands multiple times in a foreign country'' -- the public interest can get lost and abuse and corruption get invited in. We're also building a contractor-industrial-complex in Washington that has an economic interest in foreign expeditions. Doesn't make it wrong; does make you want to be watchful.
 In 2008, notes Stanger, roughly 80 percent of the State Department's requested budget went out the door in the form of contracts and grants. The Army's primary support contractor in Iraq, KBR, reportedly has some 17,000 direct-hire employees there.
 The U.S. military is now proposing a huge nation-building project for Afghanistan to replace its dysfunctional government with a state that can deliver for the Afghan people so they won't side with the Taliban. I might be more open to that project if we had a true global alliance to share the burden of an effort that will take decades. But we don't. European publics do not favor this war, and our allies will only pony up just enough troops to get their official ''Frequent U.S. Ally Card'' renewed. We'll make up the difference by hiring private contractors.
 The government may operate more efficiently with private contractors. And outsourcing can often deliver real innovation, especially in economic development. Still, I'm old-fashioned: When America is acting abroad, I prefer our public services to be provided as much as possible by public servants motivated by, and schooled in, the common good and simple patriotism -- not profits or private ambitions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OUTSOURCING (89%); IRAQ WAR (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (66%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (62%); TERRORISM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



107 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: The Truck That Can

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW

DATELINE: OSHKOSH, Wis. 

 BODY:
United States Patent No. 5,820,150, for a particular design of independent truck suspension, is just one of the dozens of patents the Oshkosh Corporation has filed in recent years. But as the military shifts its focus to Afghanistan from Iraq, that single invention is proving to be worth billions of dollars to the company and a potential lifesaver for American troops in Afghanistan.
 The special suspension is being used in new armored trucks, now being rushed to the front, that are nimble enough to veer off road and avoid the homemade mines that have killed or injured hundreds of soldiers.
 Oshkosh, which has been pummeled by the recession, recently beat out several of the biggest military contractors for $2.8 billion in orders to build 5,200 trucks, and it expects another $600 million contract soon. The first trucks reached Afghanistan last month, and the company has hired or called back nearly 1,200 workers to deliver the rest by next spring. 
 The win by Oshkosh is the latest example of how the Pentagon is shifting its focus to more practical equipment and weapons to help troops in the field immediately, rather than investing in high-tech programs with long lead times. 
 As a result, companies like Oshkosh are better positioned to beat the biggest contractors for new business.
 The Pentagon is buying the new off-road vehicles because it is scrambling to adjust from urban fighting in Iraq to the dirt roads and mountains in Afghanistan. 
 It spent $26 billion to buy 16,000 larger trucks -- called mine-resistant, ambush-protected vehicles, or MRAPs -- for Iraq. But most of them are too bulky to climb mountain passes, and are prone to toppling over on Afghanistan's steep and rutty roads.
 As the threat increases from so-called improvised explosive devices, Oshkosh's lighter and more agile truck, called an MRAP All-Terrain Vehicle, or M-ATV, will be able to go off road to avoid the bombs and chase insurgents.
 The trucks, which can carry five soldiers, are capable of driving up 60-degree inclines, in either forward gear or reverse, and can lean as much as 30 degrees to the side. The suspension system keeps the axles from breaking by allowing each wheel to slide up or down as much as 16 inches as the truck drives over rocks or through ruts. 
 The suspension is a lighter-weight version of one that Oshkosh began using in 1998 for larger military cargo carriers and later for fire trucks. Military analysts said it outperformed rival systems in the Army's M-ATV tests, and Pentagon officials liked the suspension's durability in the other uses. 
 In fact, the Pentagon is also paying the company an additional $146 million to install the suspension on 2,400 of the older MRAPs, which are being shifted to Afghanistan from Iraq. 
 ''Everybody wants the all-terrain version,'' said Rickey E. Smith, an Army official who recently ran a task force examining how the Army should update and deploy its equipment.
 The Pentagon contracts help give new life to Oshkosh, which appeared headed for bankruptcy a year ago. Sales of its commercial construction equipment had plunged 70 to 80 percent last year, and the company had laid off 2,500 people, or 12 percent of its work force, as it cut $200 million in costs. 
 Its stock, which hit a high of $65.76 a share in 2007, plummeted to $3.92 last November. The shares rebounded when Oshkosh renegotiated $3.1 billion of debt in March and then surged again after it won the M-ATV competition on June 30. 
 And largely because of the new military contracts, the company on Tuesday reported its first profit from continuing operations after three quarterly losses and predicted that it would be ''solidly profitable'' next year, prompting investors to bid up the shares by 10.9 percent, to $35.29.
 ''The M-ATV has been a game-changer for our company,'' Oshkosh's chief executive, Robert G. Bohn, said. 
 Oshkosh's interest in the M-ATV started on one of its grimmest days just over a year ago, when it lost a bid to build a different military vehicle. 
 Kenneth Juergens, a retired Army colonel who heads the program for Oshkosh, said he quickly sketched out how to combine its suspension with advanced bolt-on armor from an Israeli company to meet the Army's new demands.
 And even though the company's finances were stretched thin, Mr. Bohn agreed to invest several million dollars to quickly prepare the bid and build five vehicles for the Army to test.
 Oshkosh was competing against the contractors that built most of the larger MRAPs -- BAE Systems, Navistar, Force Protection and General Dynamics -- and military analysts viewed its bid as a long shot.
 James McAleese, a military consultant in McLean, Va., said the bolt-on armor, which is easy to replace if it gets damaged in the field, performed well in blast tests and also increased Oshkosh's score. Based on conversations with industry officials, he said, it was clear that Oshkosh also offered the quickest delivery and one of the cheapest prices, about $440,000 for each truck.
 Since then, Oshkosh has hired 600 workers and reorganized one of its factories to speed up the assembly process in this old-line industrial city, where nearly 3,500 people turned out for a company job fair. 
 ''If it weren't for the M-ATV contract, I probably wouldn't be working,'' said Richard Neitzel, 61, who had been laid off at two factories before landing one of the new $15-an-hour jobs at Oshkosh in July.
 Given the urgency, the Pentagon had planned to ask the winner to team up with one of the losing bidders to build the trucks more quickly. But Oshkosh had so much idle capacity it has been able to hold on to all the work, which could yield profit margins around 12 percent, analysts say. 
 The company has set up a second M-ATV line at one of its commercial equipment plants in McConnellsburg, Pa., where it is recalling 580 workers from layoffs. All told, it has increased production to 385 trucks in October, from 46 in July, with plans to build 1,000 each month from December through next March.
 Oshkosh also recently won another Army contract -- to build midsize supply trucks -- that could eventually be worth $3.5 billion. BAE Systems, a British company that makes the midsize trucks now, and Navistar have protested that award.
 Linda Hudson, who was recently named chief executive of BAE's American operations, contended in an interview that Oshkosh's bid price was unrealistically low. She said she found it hard to believe that the Army judged Oshkosh's financial capability as equal to that of BAE, Europe's largest military company.
 Oshkosh officials said they expected to hold onto the contract and were willing to accept a low profit initially in hopes of increasing it though enhancements to the trucks later.
 ''We feel we can compete with the big boys,'' Mr. Bohn, Oshkosh's chief said. And with its success in ramping up so quickly on the M-ATVs, he added, ''We've proven to ourselves that we can.''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 6, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about the Oshkosh Corporation's success in providing the Pentagon a new armored truck for use in Afghanistan's rugged terrain misstated the truck's hill-climbing capabilities. The trucks can drive up 60 percent inclines, not 60-degree inclines. (The grade of a slope is expressed as percentage of vertical distance over horizontal distance; a 60 percent incline translates to a slope of about 30 degrees.) The error was repeated in a picture caption.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Oshkosh's MRAP All-Terrain Vehicle can drive up 60-degree inclines and veer nimbly off road to avoid land mines.(pg. B1)
 Mike Wirch, an assembly line worker at Oshkosh, adjusts the alignment of the M-ATV.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DARREN HAUCK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); PATENTS (90%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); MOUNTAINS (86%); ARMIES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%)

COMPANY: OSHKOSH CORP (91%)

TICKER: OSK (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3713 TRUCK & BUS BODIES (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



108 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Signs of Life At Retailers In October

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
October was far and away the best month American retailers have had since consumers put the brakes on spending last autumn. Major categories had robust sales growth for the first time in more than a year, new figures show. 
 On Thursday, when individual chains report their October sales, the industry is expected to post its strongest sales figures yet in this recession. Contrary to predictions made only a few weeks ago, the nation's stores could be poised for a merrier Christmas this year than last.
 To be sure, the enthusiasm of industry professionals is tempered. A major reason the latest numbers look so good is that they are being compared with figures from October 2008, the first full month of a brutal nationwide spending freeze. 
 ''Things are better than they were a year ago,'' said Michael McNamara, vice president for research and analysis at SpendingPulse, an information service by MasterCard Advisors. ''But we're still below where we were two years ago.''
 The latest sales figures come from his organization, which estimates sales for all forms of payment, including cash, checks and credit cards. They show, for example, that sales of women's apparel increased 0.6 percent in October, the first positive figure since August 2008.
 However, women's apparel sales are still 12.2 percent lower than in the heyday of consumer spending, in October 2007. That theme -- up compared with last year, but still down compared with the height of the boom -- played out across several retailing categories, including jewelry and luxury goods.
 Nonetheless, the signs of recovery were unmistakable in the sales numbers that MasterCard Advisors released late Tuesday. 
 One sign was that retailers were able to drive sales in October without offering the kinds of deep margin-eroding discounts they dangled last year. ''That's generally a positive,'' Mr. McNamara said. ''Even though the number of purchases may not be spiking, it could be an indication that inventory and demand are more lined up.'' 
 Another positive sign is that retailers and analysts are beginning to see some stabilization in California, one of the places hit hard by the recession. Big chains like Mervyn's and Gottschalks went belly up there. Recently, though, major retailers with a presence in California -- Target, Costco, J.C. Penney and Kohl's -- have said to varying degrees that they were seeing improved sales and customer traffic. 
 Mr. McNamara said apparel sales on the West Coast increased 2.2 percent in October. ''We are showing a positive comparison for the first time in the last year,'' he said. 
 In a research report last week titled ''Christmas in Southtown: California Dreamin','' Bill Dreher, a senior research analyst with Deutsche Bank Securities, said companies like Costco and Nordstrom were ''seeing solid results in California,'' and underscored that Kohl's has had sales growth for several months now. (Kohl's has also gained significant market share in California, having snapped up 36 Mervyn's stores on the cheap.) 
 ''With this earnings acceleration going into Christmas,'' Mr. Dreher said, ''it looks like early predictions of flat-to-down Christmas sales will turn out to be stale.''
 Many analysts, economists and the National Retail Federation are forecasting holiday sales to be the same or slightly worse than last year. But more bullish analysts, at Deutsche Bank and Citi for instance, think sales for the industry will rise 1 to 2 percent.
 Over all for the industry in October, apparel sales increased 3.4 percent compared with the period a year ago, luxury goods rose 6.5 percent, jewelry increased 7.2 percent, and department store sales declined 1.5 percent, according to SpendingPulse. 
 E-commerce was the most robust sector, increasing 18.7 percent -- the third consecutive month of double-digit growth -- because of strong sales of small, low-price goods. 
 October is typically a clearance month, though some industry professionals consider it an early indicator of Christmas sales. It appears the month started off strongly. Analysts think stores benefited from cool weather, Columbus Day discounts, and last-minute back-to-school shopping. Halloween may have hurt sales slightly, though, because this year it fell on a Saturday, typically a shopping day, Mr. Dreher said. 
 Even so, analysts at Standard & Poor's Equity Research said in a report on Monday that ''consumers appear to be shopping again for apparel and some home fashions.'' 
 Whether there will be enough merchandise to go around this Christmas remains to be seen. Mike Moriarty, a partner at A.T. Kearney, a management consultancy, said many retailers were intentionally low on inventory. ''They're going to have an unhappy but maybe a safe holiday,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES FIGURES (91%); RETAIL SALES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); CREDIT CARDS (73%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (71%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); WEST USA (78%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



109 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: The Lessons of the Good Teacher

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Teach Your Teachers Well,'' by Susan Engel (Op-Ed, Nov. 2): 
 Teaching is truly the noblest of all professions. As Ms. Engel suggests, teachers do have profound influence on their students as well as on one another. 
 The 21st-century teacher guides his or her students through exciting learning adventures and discoveries, while at the same time learning a great deal from them. The interdependent relationship between teaching and learning is a priceless labor of love and a joy that must be experienced to be believed. 
 Ms. Engel says a lot when she concludes, ''Show me a school where teachers are smart, well-educated, skilled and happy to be there, and I'll show you a group of children who are getting a good education.'' To this I would add, Show me a teacher who actively pursues through love the art of learning, and I'll show you a teacher who will never burn out of the teaching profession.
 Louise Abrams Broad Channel, Queens, Nov. 2, 2009
 The writer is a public school teacher.
 To the Editor: 
 Susan Engel's recommendations for the future of teacher education all sound great, but they rest on resources that are simply not there. 
 Where is the financing for free-of-charge teacher education programs and stipends for the first three years of public school teaching? Where is the human capital to limit new teacher graduate programs to those with a 3.5 college grade point average? These utopian recommendations will not result in any kind of educational reform at scale, and that is the challenge we face. 
 Some of Ms. Engel's other recommendations for teacher education make sense -- including child development courses, supervising new teachers in real settings with expert mentors, and helping new teachers to reflect on their practice -- and many schools of education have been doing just that for years.
 Kathleen McCartney Cambridge, Mass., Nov. 2, 2009
 The writer is dean and a professor in early childhood development at the Harvard Graduate School of Education.
 To the Editor:
 I agree with Susan Engel that if we want better schools, we had better urge our best universities to pay more attention to education. How can that be done?
 I believe that may require the best universities to establish departments of education that would place education on a par with the traditionally recognized subjects like English, history and economics.
 When I attended an Ivy League university in the 1970s, there was no department of education. Future teachers could earn a certificate in teaching in a separate program, but that program did not have departmental status. Given the way that Susan Engel's credentials are described in the article, it appears that at Williams College this separate and unequal status still prevails.
 Let's begin the rehabilitation of the teaching profession by establishing departments of education not just at some colleges and universities, but at all of them.
 James Bernstein New York, Nov. 2, 2009
 To the Editor:
 It is inarguably true, as Susan Engel opined, that American education cannot improve without finding ways to attract, produce and retain better teachers, as excellent teaching has been found to be the indisputable key. But education departments, even improved ones, are not the means to produce these ranks of more effective teachers. 
 By Ms. Engel's own assessment, subject expertise and classroom experience are two of the three main areas excellent candidates need to be qualified in, and neither of these is served well by a college or university education department. 
 Aside from the specialized areas of special education and elementary education, what goes on in education departments would be better accomplished by a more intensely monitored system of on-the-job mentoring and support, including required conferences for all teachers in developmental psychology and learning differences sponsored or supported by school systems. 
 But the more important part of the task before our schools is to combine their support and development of new teachers with supervision and evaluation to ensure that ineffective teachers are weeded out and excellent teachers encouraged and rewarded. 
 Joanne Dexter Middlebury, Conn., Nov. 2, 2009
 The writer is a high school English teacher.
 To the Editor:
 Susan Engel's article brought back memories of my one-year experiment teaching high school biology. Although I would consider myself to be one of the teachers she describes, I failed miserably not because I lacked knowledge, passion or good ideas, but because I found myself completely inept at managing a classroom. 
 At the end of one year, disillusioned and stressed out, I ran for the door and never looked back.
 I often wonder how many potentially good teachers would be happy to teach the youth of tomorrow if discipline were taken entirely out of their hands. My advice for improving public education is to hire a ''bouncer'' for every classroom. I'd go back tomorrow.
 Caelin Graber Kirkwood, Mo., Nov. 2, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Indeed, a school with smart, well-educated, skilled and contented teachers is likely to result in a group of children who are receiving a good education. But wherever this exists, it is only in some part due to teaching programs that attracted the right young people to the profession. 
 No one should discount that our better schools are the ones steeped with teachers who feel called to teach, who know the importance of continuous learning, and who put themselves around principals who inspire teaching rather than babysitting.
 Lee H. Igel New York, Nov. 2, 2009
 The writer is an assistant professor, New York University School of Continuing and Professional Studies.
 To the Editor:
 It takes two to tango. How can a teacher tango if the student refuses? It is simplistic to hold the view that by transforming teacher education one can transform the school. It is only a piece of the puzzle. 
 Moreover, a great dance performance needs an excellent orchestra behind it to bring out the best in the dancers. An excellent school depends on the quality and motivation of the students; it is also contingent upon a host of other players in the drama of schooling: the parents, administration, community and the nation at large, to mention a few. 
 Francis A. Samuel Oakdale, N.Y., Nov. 2, 2009
 The writer is an associate professor of education at Dowling College.
 To the Editor: 
 Susan Engel's aspirations for a new generation of capable, dedicated teachers lacks one critical component. Teacher salaries must become commensurate with those in the business and technology fields, to attract and retain the cream of the academic crop. 
 The harsh reality of a capitalist society is that altruism won't pay the rent. 
 Dennis B. Appleton Madison, Wis., Nov. 2, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LEWIS SCOTT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (92%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHER EDUCATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (86%); CHILDREN (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); WRITERS (78%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (78%); HISTORY (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); GRADES & GRADING (72%); EDUCATION REFORM (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



110 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: From Abandoned Brewery to Piazza, Philly-Style

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA 

 BODY:
When Bart Blatstein, a local strip-mall developer, acquired an abandoned brewery a few miles from Center City nearly a decade ago, the artists who had gravitated to the surrounding area in search of cheap housing feared he would plop an unwanted big-box shopping center into their gritty Northern Liberties neighborhood.
 Instead, Mr. Blatstein, the president of Tower Investments, decided to build a public square inspired by the Piazza Navona in Rome, and then the residents worried that he would create a kitschy theme park, said Larry Freedman, the zoning chairman for the Northern Liberties Neighborhood Association. 
 But Mr. Blatstein wound up scrapping a colonial and then an Italian-style design in favor of something entirely different. 
 His Piazza at Schmidts, which opened in May at Second Street near Girard Avenue, consists of an 80,000-square-foot gathering place flanked by modern industrial-looking rental apartment buildings with 414 units and three dozen small ground-floor retail spaces. At the southern end, an 80-year-old rehabilitated warehouse, now an office building, serves as a backdrop for live performances. Attached to it is a 40-foot LED screen that draws fans during Phillies' games and other televised sports events. 
 At the opposite end, an egg-shaped new office building links the plaza to Liberties Walk, four blocks of three-story apartments buildings, also with retail spaces at their base.
 Inga Saffron, the architecture critic for The Philadelphia Inquirer, said that Mr. Blatstein had managed to do something that had eluded most developers: create a public space that feels authentic.
 ''The architecture captures the spirit of the neighborhood -- not by literally imitating the style of the surrounding buildings, but by using materials and forms that reflect the neighborhood's tough, enduring, unsentimental, working-class heritage,'' she said.
 The piazza, which was designed by Erdy McHenry Architecture, a local firm, has also won praise from real estate specialists and community leaders as a focal point for the neighborhood. ''It's been a surprising success on multiple levels,'' Mr. Freedman said.
 Since he bought the decrepit brewery at a foreclosure auction in 2000 for $1.8 million -- without, he said, ever walking on the site -- Mr. Blatstein has accumulated a staggering amount of real estate in Northern Liberties, which is near the Delaware River and is bounded by Callowhill Street to the south and Girard Avenue to the north. 
 Altogether, he owns more than 100 parcels on 28 acres and has developed more than one million square feet, including 600 residential units, with an average monthly rent of $2 a square foot. He said he had spent $150 million and planned to invest an additional $300 million. 
 Mr. Blatstein said he expected to complete a two-level shopping center adjacent to the piazza next year, which will bring the neighborhood a badly needed supermarket and other retail services. 
 A boyish 55, Mr. Blatstein was raised in northeast Philadelphia but now lives on the Main Line, in suburban Gladwyne. He made his fortune by building and selling shopping centers and by selling waterfront land that had been approved for a gambling casino. Unlike most large-scale developers, he has no partners or investors. ''I knew that along the way I was going to make a lot of modifications on the fly and would drive my partners crazy,'' he said. 
 Stephen P. Mullin, a senior vice president at the Econsult Corporation, a local consulting company, and a former city commerce director, said that working alone freed Mr. Blatstein from meeting other people's benchmarks and allowed him to take the sort of risks that other developers avoid. ''He is happy to get some part of his return in a nonpecuniary way,'' Mr. Mullin said.
 Though he is widely admired as a risk taker, Mr. Blatstein is also viewed as someone who can be difficult. ''He whines a lot,'' said Alan Greenberger, the executive director of the City Planning Commission. ''He makes people mad sometimes, both at the city level as well as in the neighborhoods. I'm willing to put up with all that because I see the end results, and I see that they're good.'' 
 Since Mr. Blatstein bought the brewery, housing values in Northern Liberties have increased from $32 a square foot to $140 a square foot, according to Econsult.
 Mr. Blatstein was not the first to recognize the potential of Northern Liberties, which went into decline after it was cut off from Center City in the 1960s by Interstate 95. In the 1980s, as artists moved in, developers began rehabilitating houses where factory workers once lived. But the real estate collapse at the end of the decade halted development for 10 years, Mr. Mullin said. 
 When Mr. Blatstein bought the Schmidt's Brewery, which had closed in 1987, he had no intention of creating a magnet for young people. The previous owner had rezoned the site for a shopping center, and Mr. Blatstein thought he would build one and then get out. ''Then the midlife crisis hit,'' he said, ''and I thought, What do I do? Do I get the bright red Ferrari? And then I decided, Let me do the creative thing here. I have the opportunity to do something really cool here.''
 Mr. Blatstein tore down abandoned buildings and gobbled up properties, sometimes using straw buyers to keep prices down. Some parcels were acquired through condemnation, but he said he has never displaced a resident or business.
 In building his piazza, Mr. Blatstein said he stuck to several principles. He limited the height of the surrounding buildings so that none were taller than seven stories. ''The buildings can't be too high because then they become overbearing,'' he said. The piazza itself had to be just the right width -- no more than 100 feet -- so that people would feel safe there.
 Recesses and cutouts in the buildings allow people to enter at different points, tying the piazza to the surrounding streets, said Scott Erdy, one of the architects.
 Mr. Blatstein initially intended to lease his ground-floor space to established retailers, but was not able to attract any to an untested area with a bad image. Instead he divided the storefronts into tiny spaces for fledgling entrepreneurs selling clothing, art, jewelry and even magicians' supplies. He says he has the flexibility to evict any retailer who fails to maintain a ''cool space.'' 
 Similarly, residential tenants, who tend to be young singles, must agree in writing to put up with noise from the piazza. Yet Mr. Blatstein said the apartments overlooking the piazza were fully rented.
 With roots in the food business -- his father was a caterer and Mr. Blatstein operated farmers' markets in the 1980s -- he knew the kind of restaurants he wanted: an Italian wine bar, a pub, a burger bar and a 1950s diner. He bought the liquor licenses himself, hired designers and recruited the restaurant operators. 
 ''He created what he thought he would like,'' said Steven H. Gartner, the president of Metro Commercial Real Estate, a Philadelphia company. The diner, called Darling's, is in the egg-shaped building where Mr. Blatstein plans to have his office and has a Howard Johnson-like turquoise-and-orange decor. 
 Six weeks after the piazza opened, Mr. Blatstein got the kind of news that no developer wants. A man and a woman were killed in what appeared to be a drug-related attack outside the woman's apartment at the piazza. ''I wanted to go under the covers and cry,'' Mr. Blatstein said.
 But the killings were viewed as something that could have happened anywhere and merely made people curious to see the piazza, Mr. Blatstein said. ''I couldn't get front-page coverage when I opened,'' he said. ''This is what did it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At Piazza at Schmidts, a former warehouse is now an office building with an outdoor stage and a huge LED screen.
 Bart Blatstein, the developer, on a balcony overlooking the project, which is in the Northern Liberties area and includes 414 apartments and 36 stores.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY RYAN COLLERD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); RETAILERS (77%); AUCTIONS (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); REAL ESTATE AUCTIONS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (66%); SPORTS (66%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (66%); SPORTS & RECREATION (66%); FORECLOSURE (61%)

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (73%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (73%) ITALY (90%); UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



111 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Global Banking Fears Lead to Mixed Results

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Wall Street wobbled on Tuesday amid indications that the global economy, particularly the banking sector, might be more frail than investors had believed. But positive sales reports from automakers stoked investors' hopes in the final hours of trading.
 The day began with the announcement that the Royal Bank of Scotlandwould take billions more in British government aid. In addition, UBS in Switzerland reported another quarter of losses, sending European stocks tumbling. 
 In the afternoon, automakers including General Motors and Fordreported sales in October had risen by small amounts, while Chrysler's sales had declined 30 percent. The data suggested consumers were still willing to put down money for cars even in the absence of the government's cash-for-clunkers program, which ended in August and provided vouchers toward the purchase of new vehicles. 
 At the close of the markets, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 17.53 points, or 0.2 percent, to 9,771.91. The Standard and Poor's 500-stock index was up 2.53 points, or 0.2 percent, at 1,045.41, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index was up 8.12 points, or 0.4 percent, at 2,057.32. 
 Dan Faretta, a senior markets strategist at the brokerage Lind-Waldock, said European concerns raised doubts about the health of American financial institutions, which have suffered in the face of weak revenue and losses on loans.
 ''Is that what's to come for more banks? Are we going to have to have more stimulus for some of the banks that we have over here?'' Mr. Faretta said. 
 Adding some optimism, the Commerce Department said Tuesday that orders to United States factories had climbed by 0.9 percent in September, the fifth increase in six months. The data indicated that consumers were hungry for goods of all types, including cars, cigarettes and clothing. The numbers were better than analysts had expected.
 Investors also reacted to news that Warren E. Buffett of Berkshire Hathaway would buy Burlington Northern Santa Fe railroad for $26 billion. Mr. Buffett called his purchase ''an all-in wager on the economic future of the United States,'' and his investment signaled confidence in transportation and the future of consumer demand. 
 Burlington Northern's stock climbed 27.5 percent to $97, and other railroad stocks surged.
 Despite optimistic earnings reports from major companies in recent weeks, executives are still relying on cost-cutting as they seek to drive up profits. Johnson & Johnson said Tuesday it would shed up to 7 percent of its global work force as part of a plan meant to save the company $1.4 billion to $1.7 billion by 2011.
 Mining companies rose, following precious metals prices. The price of gold rose $24.90, to a record $1,084.40 an ounce, following news that India had purchased 200 metric tons from the International Monetary Fund.
 Barrick Gold rose $2.66, about 7 percent, to $39.17. Newmont Mining also rose about 7 percent, closing at $46.48, up $2.91.
 The focus this week is on labor and the Federal Reserve. The Fed meets Wednesday to assess the economy and set monetary policy and on Friday, unemployment figures come out.
 The Treasury's 10-year note fell 13/32, to 101 10/32. The yield rose to 3.47 percent, from 3.41 percent late Monday.
 Following are the results of Tuesday's Treasury auction of four-week bills:

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); METALS MARKETS (77%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LABOR FORCE (73%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (69%); MINES & MINING (50%)

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (61%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (52%); BURLINGTON NORTHERN SANTA FE CORP (52%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (61%); GM (NYSE) (57%); BRK.B (NYSE) (52%); BRK.A (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (61%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (52%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (52%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (52%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (52%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



112 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: East River Commuter Ferry Service Could Be Halted, Again

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM

 BODY:
For almost two years, city officials have extolled a proposal for a five-borough network of water taxis, an ambitious plan that the City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, said would make New York ''a shining example of urban sustainability for cities all over the world.'' 
 The plan moved quickly. A ferry linking the Rockaways, in Queens, to Manhattan started operating last year, and there was an announcement that service on the East River would be expanded by next spring. Then, in February, came more promising news: The existing East River network would continue to be subsidized by the city through 2010. 
 All the while, developers welcomed the service -- just a quick jaunt to Manhattan, with tickets $3 to $5.50 -- as an amenity in marketing expensive condos on the Brooklyn and Queens waterfronts.
 But eight months later, the operator of the ferry service, New York Water Taxi, says that it has not been able to come to an agreement with the city about continuing the subsidy, and that it might have to halt the East River commuter service for the third time in four years. Further, the city's Economic Development Corporation said that because of the recession, plans to expand the ferry service on the East River have been delayed for at least a year, until spring 2011.
 City officials said they remain committed to the East River ferry routes. Madelyn Wils, the executive vice president of the development corporation, said ''the administration is working with the City Council on both a short-term and long-term sustainable citywide ferry plan.''
 But the threat of another winter of canceled service has left many to wonder, and has added to fears that the longer ferries are seen as unreliable, the less New Yorkers will see them as a viable means of transportation.
 It is unwelcome news for a small but loyal group of riders who have come to rely on the ferry service as an alternative to the busy subway lines that feed neighborhoods like Williamsburg, Brooklyn. Robert G. Thorne, a research scientist at the New York University School of Medicine, rents an apartment at Schaefer Landing, a development in Williamsburg that is also the site of the ferry landing.
 On Tuesday morning, as they do every day, Mr. Thorne and his wife boarded the boat and waved goodbye to their daughter. ''This saves us 35, 40 minutes each way,'' he said. ''That's more time with our daughter.'' Given the state of the L train -- ''horribly overpopulated'' -- Mr. Thorne, who has lived in the development since 2007, said losing ferry service would cause him to strongly consider moving.
 Many of the passengers are residents of luxury developments like Schaefer Landing and are probably not in urgent need of the city's help. Privately, officials say they would feel more comfortable putting money into a service with more stops and broader cross section of passengers. A long-term solution under discussion involves prodding developers, and possibly the residents of some of the new developments, to shoulder more of the cost. 
 To operate the East River route, New York Water Taxi needs approximately $900,000 in subsidies each year, city officials say, aid that becomes crucial during the winter months, when ridership -- which peaks in the summer at about 4,350 passengers per month -- falls by about half. Tom Fox, president of New York Water Taxi, said he had submitted a number of subsidy proposals to the development corporation. 
 ''We're waiting to hear back,'' he said. ''We're hopeful we can work something out. If not, we'll give the passengers the courtesy of a two-week notice, and we'll have to cancel the service.'' 
 A spokesman for Ms. Quinn said in a statement that she was ''confident we will be able to preserve and expand existing service.''
 The East River service stops at Schaefer Landing; Long Island City, in Queens; and Fulton Ferry, in Brooklyn. In Manhattan, it stops at Pier 11 near Wall Street and at 35th Street. 
 Under the expanded plan, two more stops would be added, in North Williamsburg and in Greenpoint, Brooklyn. And the ferries, which run twice in the morning and twice in the evening, would operate much more frequently. Even with the current limited service, and what seems to be an almost total absence of marketing, word about the ferries has started to spread beyond the luxury developments.
 At the Schaefer Landing stop, where no sign or schedule notes the existence of water-borne transportation, Carveth Martin, a graphic designer, stood with her bike on Tuesday morning. She learned about the ferry by word of mouth, and now -- for the friendly atmosphere, the absence of the crowds, the short commute -- she takes the water taxi to Wall Street several times a week. 
 ''It would be a bit of a tragedy to lose this boat,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Aboard the New York Water Taxi ferry on Tuesday as it passed the Williamsburg Bridge on the East River. The ferry's operator said it might have to halt service for a third time in four years. (pg.A25)
 Waiting for the water taxi at Schaefer Landing in Brooklyn. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERRIES (94%); CITIES (93%); CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (92%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RECESSION (72%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



113 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: Degas Pastel Is Highlight of a Tepid Christie's Sale

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
French and Italian could be heard throughout Christie's salesroom Tuesday night as the fall auction season began unsteadily: While there were some strong prices, there were also expensive failures. 
 It was a thin sale of Impressionist and modern art, with just 40 works on offer and prices that fell below estimates. The evening totaled $65.6 million but had been estimated to bring at least $68.6 million. 
 Throughout the night at the salesroom at Rockefeller Center, what bidding there was took place mostly on the telephone, with Christie's representatives from Hong Kong to London making offers on behalf of clients. The weak dollar apparently made buying in New York quite attractive to foreigners. Auction house executives said only 29 percent of the buyers were Americans, while 42 percent of the buyers were Europeans, a category that includes Russians. 
 There were some high points to what was clearly a disappointing evening. The star was an 1896 Degas pastel of a young dancer rubbing her foot, the image on the cover of the sale catalog. It brought $9.5 million ($10.7 million including fees to Christie's), well above its $9 million high estimate. The winning bid was taken by Ken Yeh, deputy chairman of Christie's in Asia. 
 (Final prices include the commission to Christie's: 25 percent of the first $50,000, 20 percent of the next $50,000 to $1 million and 12 percent of the rest. Estimates do not reflect commissions.)
 It wasn't surprising that such a classic Impressionist image brought a strong price. These prettier works are what buyers have been gravitating toward since the recession began. In May at Sotheby's, three paintings that had belonged to an heir of Henry O. and Louisine Waldron Elder Havemeyer -- celebrated collectors who left prime examples by Degas, Cassatt, Courbet, Manet and Monet to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 1929 -- were snapped up by collectors at solid prices. 
 But not all such appealing images sold. One surprising failure was Pissarro's ''Pont du chemin de fer, Pontoise,'' an 1873 landscape. Christie's had estimated that it would bring at least $3.5 million. But there was only one bidder, who was not prepared to spend more than $3.2 million, so the painting went unsold. ''I was surprised,'' said Lionel Pissarro, a Paris dealer who is a great-grandson of the artist. ''It is a beautiful painting and it wasn't overpriced.''
 Mediocre examples of work by artists like Matisse and Sisley, Mondrian and Modigliani failed to elicit so much as a bid. But no one seemed surprised because buyers in this economy are being careful and are only willing to write big checks when something is considered rare or an especially prime example. 
 Such was the case with one of Rodin's bronze kisses, conceived in 1880-81 and cast between 1887 and 1901. It was an early cast, so the details were particularly fresh. Six bidders instantly went for the sculpture, which was sold to Christopher Eykyn, a Manhattan dealer, for $5.6 million ($6.3 million with Christie's fees) nearly three times its high $2 million estimate. Mr. Eykyn was bidding for a client but he would not identify him. 
 Provenance mattered too. A sun-dappled Monet landscape depicting a village on the Seine was being sold by an heir of Paul Durand-Ruel, the Paris dealer who championed Impressionist painters long before they were fashionable. Two telephone bidders vied for the painting, which was estimated at $5 million and brought $4.8 million ($5.4 million with fees). 
 Timing also helped. With a major Kandinsky retrospective on view at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York, Christie's was offering an abstract Kandinsky canvas of points, lines and geometric shapes from 1929. Carrying a high estimate of $2.5 million, it sold for $2.3 million ($2.6 million with fees) to another telephone bidder. 
 After the sale, as the audience milled outside Christie's, James Roundell, a London dealer, perhaps summed up the auction best when he said, ''It was a night where the buyers did the editing.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Danseuses'' by Edgar Degas brought $9.5 million at a sale at Rockefeller Center that began the fall auction season. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIE'S) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PAINTING (78%); US DOLLAR (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); DANCERS (67%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%)

COMPANY: CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (59%) NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%); HONG KONG (72%); FRANCE (59%); ASIA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



114 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: In the Shadow of Yankee Stadium, an Off Year

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
By all reckoning, this should be the moment Saeed Alawy was waiting for. His shop, Pin Stripe Collectibles, sits just beyond the right field wall of the new Yankee Stadium, where Game 6 of the World Series will be played Wednesday night.
 But Mr. Alawy and other merchants nearby said they had not benefited from the new stadium. In fact, many said that business was down significantly from previous years -- running counter to predictions that the stadium would be an economic generator in the Bronx neighborhood. 
 For some businesses, the new stadium's location disrupted foot traffic patterns that had been around for decades. For others, the allure of the stadium and all of its shops and food stands teamed up with the recession to siphon away too much business.
 All of this has turned some merchants into temporary Phillies fans this week, if only in the hope that the necessity of one or two more Yankees games in the Bronx can help them salvage as much as possible of what has been a disappointing season for them.
 ''Sometimes you cry,'' Mr. Alawy said, standing alone behind the glass display cases in his store, empty on Monday evening, a few hours before Game 5 was to begin in Philadelphia. About 20 copies of the $15 official World Series program he had ordered were still stacked on the counter.
 Game 6 will be the eighth sold-out postseason game played at the stadium this year, on top of the team's 83 other home games (81 during the regular season and two in the preseason). The Yankees have also opened the stadium twice in recent weeks to allow fans to watch the team play postseason road games on a giant screen, including Game 4 from Philadelphia on Sunday night.
 All of that additional traffic will not make up for the loss in business this year, the merchants said.
 ''Many people who thought that their business would be greatly increased have not experienced that,'' said Ramon J. Jimenez, a lawyer and community advocate in the South Bronx. ''I think a lot of people are disappointed.''
 Will Lawson, who sells caps, T-shirts and other Yankees gear outside the stadium, is one of them. Mr. Lawson said his sales dropped by about half this year. He blamed the police for herding the crowds directly in and out of the stadium, and he accused the team's owners of being greedy.
 ''I think what they're trying to do is force everybody else out,'' Mr. Lawson said. ''It's dismal, very dismal.''
 He said the Yankees had stepped up vending operations outside the stadium, creating more competition for independent merchants like him. Although the team charges more for the same items, Mr. Lawson said, it manages to keep fans from venturing across the street for bargains.
 As an example, he pointed to an official Yankees cap with the World Series logo stitched on it that he said sold for $50 at the stadium. Mr. Alawy and other merchants were asking $45 for the same cap, and some said they would accept as little as $40. 
 ''That's what puzzles me,'' Mr. Lawson said. ''People go over there anyway.''
 Alice McGillion, a spokeswoman for the Yankees, said she could not explain why neighborhood merchants would be suffering. She said the team had done nothing substantially different this season, but had merely duplicated the outside vending operation it had around the old stadium.
 ''I don't know what the cause of it would be, or what the effect of the recession would be,'' Ms. McGillion said.
 Asked how the recession had affected the Yankees' merchandise sales, she declined to discuss whether the team had taken in more or less money from selling souvenirs this season. ''We're not going to get into the revenues,'' she said.
 On Monday, about an hour before the start of the Yankees-Phillies game, about a dozen customers were eating and drinking in the Hard Rock Cafe built into the southeast corner of Yankee Stadium. Less than a block south, the steel security gates were pulled down at Stan's Sports Bar and Stan's Sports World, longstanding businesses that catered year-round to the crowds drawn to the old stadium.
 The city's Economic Development Corporation estimated that each home playoff game produced $15.5 million in economic activity, including $6.7 million in spending on hotel rooms and taxi rides and in restaurants, bars and stores.
 But on River Avenue in the Bronx, merchants said that very little of that money was trickling their way. Mr. Alawy, who said he had pulled about $30,000 out of savings to cover his costs this year, wistfully recalled the bounty that his family reaped during the 1996 World Series, when the Yankees played the Atlanta Braves.
 While working in his father's souvenir shop up the block, he recalled, there was no time to fold the T-shirts before selling them. Customers were lined up three and four deep at the counter yelling out orders and tossing wads of bills.
 ''They were throwing the money,'' Mr. Alawy, 47, said.
 Over the course of an hour on Monday, just 13 shoppers wandered into Pin Stripe Collectibles and Mr. Alawy made only four sales, for a total of $107. A man bought a $10 bracelet for one daughter and a $12 stuffed Dalmatian in a Yankees shirt for the other. A young woman paid $36 for two tank tops. A young man quickly chose a cap and, after doing a double take on hearing the price, handed over two $20 bills and dashed out.
 A man in a black-on-black Yankees cap, who said he worked security for the team, said he was hoping the Yankees would lose Monday so that they could win the championship at home. 
 ''If they win at home, that's more money for me,'' he said with a grin.
 On the next beat, Mr. Alawy and Mr. Lawson, responded in unison: ''More for all of us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Businesses near Yankee Stadium like Pin Stripe Collectibles, above, say revenue is down despite interest in the Yankees' new home and the team's success.
 Business owners along River Avenue say little of the fans' money is making it into their cash registers. Many are grateful for another World Series game in the Bronx. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (92%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); SALES FIGURES (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (83%); PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



115 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Trial Reveals Vast Web of Corruption and Fuels a Political Career

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS; Xiyun Yang contributed reporting.

DATELINE: CHONGQING, China 

 BODY:
Wen Qiang had a fondness for Louis Vuitton belts, fossilized dinosaur eggs and B-list pop stars. For a public employee in charge of the local judiciary, he also had a lot of money: nearly $3 million that investigators found buried beneath a fish pond. 
 But Mr. Wen's lavish tastes were nothing compared with the carnal appetites of his sister-in-law, Xie Caiping, known as ''the godmother of the Chongqing underworld.'' Prosecutors say she ran 30 illegal casinos, including one across the street from the courthouse. She also employed 16 young men who, according to the state-run press, were exceedingly handsome and obliging. 
 In recent weeks, Ms. Xie, Mr. Wen and a cavalcade of ranking officials and lowbrow thugs have been players in a mass public trial that has exposed the unseemly relationships among gangsters, police officers and the sticky-fingered bureaucrats.
 The spectacle involves more than 9,000 suspects, 50 public officials, a petulant billionaire and criminal organizations that dabbled in drug trafficking, illegal mining, and random acts of savagery, most notably the killing of a man for his unbearably loud karaoke voice.
 But like all big corruption cases in China, this one is as much about politics as graft. The political machine in Chongqing, a province-size mega-city of 31 million people in the southwest, has been broken up by a new Communist Party boss, Bo Xilai, who is the son of a revolutionary party veteran and has his eye on higher office. 
 Mr. Bo, a former trade minister sent to Chongqing to burnish his managerial credentials, has conducted the crackdown in a way that appears devised to maximize national attention. The drawn-out nature of the trial and the release of lurid details of the criminal syndicate have given him a reputation as a leading corruption fighter, though the inquiry has yet to implicate any really high-ranking party officials.
 So far six people have been sentenced to death. Ms. Xie got off relatively lightly, receiving an 18-year prison term on Tuesday.
 How Mr. Bo's performance is regarded by the party elite is a matter of speculation. There are some suggestions that his swagger, including boastful comments to the news media, strikes some fellow officials as excessive. Anticorruption campaigns by China's one-party state are generally calibrated to show resolution in tackling venality, but also to reassure the public that whatever problems are uncovered are localized and effectively contained.
 ''These guys are all for fighting corruption, but they are a little alarmed by the way Bo Xilai has been going about it and building up his personality,'' said Sidney Rittenberg, one of the few American citizens to join the Communist Party here and a confidant of Chinese leaders since 1944. ''People I talk to say he's getting too big for his britches.''
 A so-called princeling whose father, Bo Yibo, was an economic planner and a onetime ally of the paramount leader Deng Xiaoping, Mr. Bo, 60, is already a member of the Communist Party's powerful Politburo. He is often talked about as a future top leader in Beijing, although in the party's rigid hierarchy the No. 1 posts in the party and the government have already been assigned to other younger officials.
 Recent statements by Mr. Bo suggest he understands the perils of drawing too much attention. Two weeks ago, he defended the crackdown, saying he was forced to act by the rampant violence and brazen criminality that had given this perpetually foggy city a reputation for lawlessness. 
 ''The public gathered outside government offices and held up pictures of bloodshed,'' he said. ''The gangsters slashed people with knives just like butchers killing animals.''
 In the three weeks since trials began, the crowds have continued to come, and their stories of bloodshed are indeed horrifying. They press outside the gates of the Fifth Intermediate Court, hoping to glimpse the orange-vested defendants who are paraded through the hearings.
 Others desperately seek out reporters willing to hear tales of crimes unpunished. ''The bandits used to live in the mountains; now they live in the Public Security Bureau,'' said Zheng Yi, a vegetable wholesaler.
 Unlike past sweeps that brought down crime bosses and their henchmen, the crackdown in Chongqing has yielded a number of wealthy businessmen and Communist Party officials, exposing the depth of corruption that has resulted from the mixing of state control and free-market economics in China.
 Ko-lin Chin, who studies the intermingling of organized crime and government in China, said the line between legitimate business and illegal conduct had become increasingly blurred, although most official corruption involved bribery, not violence.
 ''As these gangs have become more powerful, their existence depends entirely on the cooperation and tolerance of the Communist Party,'' said Mr. Chin, a professor of criminal justice at Rutgers. ''But when things get out of hand, as they did in Chongqing, the party can really go after these groups with a vengeance.''
 Among those on trial this week is Li Qiang, a local legislator and billionaire who the authorities say owned a fleet of 1,000 cabs and 100 bus routes. So great was his power, they say, that he orchestrated a taxi strike last year that brought the city to a standstill. On trial with him are three government officials suspected of acting as his ''protection umbrellas'' in exchange for payments of about $100,000 each.
 While Mr. Li stood in the dock, more than 200 people gathered outside in the rain, including women who said they were roughed up in October last year when they refused to vacate their homes for a redevelopment project. One of them, Wu Pinghui, 67, said 40 people were herded into a government-owned bus and dumped in the countryside. By the time they made it back, their homes were gone. 
 ''We called 110,'' she said, referring to the Chinese emergency number, ''but the police said they couldn't get involved in a government affair.''
 Hong Guibi also came to the courthouse. She said the Communist Party chief of her village, enraged when she and her husband refused to give him part of their orchard, watched as thugs attacked the couple with cleavers. Ms. Hong, 47, was critically wounded, and her husband was killed. ''The neighbors heard our screams, but they were afraid to do anything,'' she said.
 Although heartened that so many are being prosecuted, Ms. Hong is still waiting for someone to come after the village chief. ''If I could just kneel down in front of Bo Xilai,'' she said, ''I'm sure he would solve my problem.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hong Guibi said she was attacked and her husband killed for refusing to give a Communist Party chief part of their land. More photos are at nytimes.com/world.
Left, suspects, including Li Qiang, were escorted down the court steps last week in Chongqing. Petitioners outside included Lu Ruili, whose house was demolished. (pg.A6)
 Zhang Ding Hua, with his petition, says his father was taken by the police after resisting eviction and has not been seen since. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GILLES SABRIE FOR THE NEW YORK) (pg.A8) MAP: Chongqing's political machine has been dismantled. (pg.A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); POLITICS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); SENTENCING (75%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (75%); ILLEGAL GAMBLING (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (52%)

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (91%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (91%); LVMH (BIT) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (91%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHONGQING, CHINA (94%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (95%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



116 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: Through A Glass Less Darkly

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
In the fall of 1982, with a long recession ending but the unemployment rate heading toward 10 percent, The New York Times ran an article titled ''The Recovery That Won't Start.'' 
 It quoted prominent economists who worried that ''the recovery may amount to nothing more than a few quarters of paltry growth -- and possibly not even that.'' The economists, the article noted, had ''growing doubts about whether the mechanisms of economic recovery will -- or can -- operate as they have in other postwar business cycles.''
 Over the next two years, the American economy grew at a blistering annual rate of more than 6 percent.
 These days, as in the aftermath of every recession, including the one that has just ended, you are again hearing a version of those early 1980s worries: this time, things are different. Consumers are tapped out. Business executives are skittish. Banks remain reluctant to lend. 
 And maybe things really are different this time. Given the many problems weighing on the economy, a mediocre recovery does indeed seem more likely than a strong one, as I've written before. But history certainly offers pessimists and semi-pessimists some cause for humility.
 On Friday, the Labor Department will release its monthly jobs report, and it is a more important one than usual. For most of this year, the economy has been gradually but steadily improving. In September, though, it slid backward, with job losses rising and wage growth slowing. 
 Friday's report -- the first broad look at the economy in October -- should make clear whether September was the start of something worrisome or just a blip. It will count as good news if there were fewer than 200,000 job losses last month and if the losses have clearly slowed, once the revised numbers for earlier months are taken into account.
 Either way, the job market will still be in terrible shape. The unemployment rate, at 9.8 percent in September, could conceivably hit 10 percent for the first time since 1983. When that happens, some economists are bound to argue that the normal mechanisms of economic recovery have broken down.
 So it's a good time to remember that when an economy is just coming out of recession, its weaknesses are always more obvious than its potential strengths. 
 ''Of course, there is a long list of things to worry about,'' says Robert Barbera, an economist and the author of a recent book on the financial crisis. ''But it's ever thus. If that were the reason you didn't have a genuine recovery, you would never have a genuine recovery.''
 People tend to become overly pessimistic at the end of a recession, partly because they can see that the forces behind the last boom -- housing and mortgage lending, in this case -- won't be around for the next one. If anything, the excesses from the last boom seem likely to hold back the economy for years to come. People are left to wonder where future growth will come from.
 I want to take a stab at that question today. To be clear, I am not predicting a boom over the next two years. I'm just trying to give equal time to the side of the economic ledger that often doesn't get discussed until after the fact.
 CHINA For years, economists have been saying that China needs to consume more and the United States needs to consume less. Now it's starting to happen. 
 The Chinese government has increased spending in the country's impoverished countryside and made it easier for households to borrow money. Meanwhile, the global recession has caused China's export sector to shrink. Its trade surplus is on pace to equal about 4 percent of its gross domestic product this year, down from 9 percent in 2007. ''Things have moved in a much more positive direction,'' says Nicholas Lardy of the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. 
 But for progress to continue, China will need to stop intervening in foreign exchange markets so aggressively and allow its currency to rise relative to the dollar. That would hurt Chinese manufacturers (by making their goods more expensive) while helping Chinese households (by making imports cheaper). It would also help American companies, because their goods and services would be cheaper to export to China. 
 Chinese officials have repeatedly said they want to rebalance their economy. Figuring out how to hold them to it is one of the big tasks facing the White House, the State Department and the Treasury. 
 PENT-UP DEMAND Or to put it another way, how much less will Americans be consuming?
 The shopping spree made possible by the housing bubble was clearly unsustainable. But no one really knows what the new normal is. It could look not so different from the frugality of 2009, or it could look like something between frugality and froth.
 Most economists say they think the second situation is far more likely. Vehicle sales are a good example. Households will buy about 10.5 million new vehicles this year, down from more than 16 million a year for most of this decade. Taking everything into account -- the hangover from the excess sales, population growth, the average life of a car -- Rebecca Lindland of the research firm IHS Global Insight said she expected the number to grow to 11.2 million next year, 13.7 million in 2011 and 15.5 million in 2012.
 That's not an especially bullish forecast. But it still suggests the auto sector will grow 30 percent over the next two years. 
 STIMULUSNancy Pelosi, the speaker of the House, said something unintentionally revealing last week: ''We do not have plans for an additional stimulus package. But we do have plans to stimulate the economy.''
 Even though economists generally say the $787 billion stimulus bill has been a big success, it has only lukewarm public support, polls show. So the White House and Congress are reluctant to propose another stimulus bill. Yet the economy could use some more stimulus. Too many resources -- buildings, machines, workers -- are still sitting idle. 
 The solution may end up being some combination of smaller stimulus measures that dare not speak the name, like extended jobless benefits or the expanded (and misguided) home buyer's credit. These programs won't have the punch that the Federal Reserve's sharp interest rate cuts in the early 1980s did. But the combination of today's already-low interest rates, any new stimulus and the $30 billion in original stimulus money that Washington is still spending every month will be supporting the economy well into 2010. 
 A side note to deficit hawks: Don't be distracted by a few billion here or there from stimulus. The real action is with health reform, which has the potential to save hundreds of billions of dollars over the long term -- but only if Congress gets tough on wasteful medical spending. 
 THE UNKNOWN When Bill Clinton convened a conference in the dark economic days after his 1992 election, some of the country's top economists flew to Little Rock, Ark., to share their vision for the future. As Rahm Emanuel, now the White House chief of staff, likes to point out, they didn't spend much time talking about the Internet. They could not see the dot-com boom coming.
 Might there be another pleasant surprise in our future? Maybe cloud computing or some other form of information technology? Maybe a breakthrough in alternative energy? 
 The point is, no one knows. If someone forced me to make a prediction, I would guess that the economy would not feel truly healthy until at least 2011. Financial crises tend to have long hangovers, and this was the worst crisis since the Great Depression.
 But I would also make another guess. A few years from now, everyone will be talking about some obvious economic blessing that isn't so obvious today.

GRAPHIC: CHART: JOB LOSSES, SEEN TWO WAYS: Change in employment (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); WRITERS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



117 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Congress Agrees to Keep Homebuyers' Tax Credit

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Senate and House are poised to agree on a compromise measure to extend unemployment benefits that also would expand a popular $8,000 tax credit for homebuyers, despite a recent government report on extensive mistakes and suspected fraud in the program.
 The Senate might pass its version as early as Wednesday, and aides to Congressional leaders say the House could accept it this week, sending the bill to President Obama to sign into law. After weeks of partisan delay in the Senate, Democrats are eager to show progress before Friday, when the October jobless report is again expected to show high unemployment. 
 The homebuyers' credit -- enacted last year, expanded this year and scheduled to expire Nov. 30 -- would be extended to cover homes under contract by April 30. Also, it no longer would be limited to first-time buyers; people who have owned a home for at least five years could get a $6,500 credit on a new residence. Income limits for eligibility would be raised, making many more people qualify. 
 Extending and expanding the credit would cost an estimated $11 billion, on top of the $10 billion spent so far. It would be a big victory for the housing and real estate lobby and for the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, who faces a tough re-election race next year in the state with the most claims for the credit per capita.
 Critics complain that most of the credits go to taxpayers who would have bought their homes anyway, which even the industry acknowledges. Also, a Congressional subcommittee released a Treasury Department report last month about suspected criminal and civil abuses of the program. 
 Government officials testified, however, that many of the problems may be due to confusion among taxpayers and the Internal Revenue Service about the overlapping 2008 and 2009 versions of the tax credit. With Congress likely to change the eligibility provision again, the new measure could present further administrative problems for the I.R.S., although the measure does include several new safeguards.
 ''It's not unreasonable to think that this is going to provide some further challenges for them, both in terms of implementing a third version of it and in terms of ensuring taxpayers' compliance,'' said James R. White, director of tax issues for the Government Accountability Office.
 The Treasury Department report said that as of Sept. 30, the I.R.S. had identified 167 suspected criminal schemes and was examining nearly 107,000 cases of potential civil violations.
 The first person to be convicted of defrauding the tax credit program was a tax preparer in Jacksonville, Fla., who was sentenced last month to 30 months in prison. According to the Justice Department, he claimed the credit for ineligible clients, many of whom were unsuspecting, and electronically paid himself $1,000 of the credit's value each time.
 Investigators found that more than 500 claimants of the tax credit nationwide were minors as young as 4, so the new measure will require applicants to be at least 18. Homes cannot be acquired from relatives, and taxpayers must submit a settlement statement as proof of purchase, though officials acknowledge that could be a problem for those who file tax returns electronically.
 While real estate groups and some economists say the credit has helped stabilize the housing market, critics say it is too costly a subsidy when low interest rates and home prices are incentives enough for most. 
 Of the 1.4 million claimants of the credit, fewer than a third -- about 350,000 to 400,000 -- are believed to have bought their homes because of the credit, according to independent and industry-affiliated economists. 
 Under the new legislation, individuals with income up to $125,000 a year and couples earning up to $225,000 would be eligible. The current income limits are $75,000 for individuals and $150,000 for couples. Under both the House and Senate versions, smaller amounts are available to people of slightly higher incomes until the credit phases out.
 The expanded homebuyers' tax credit was attached to a bill intended to extend unemployment compensation for up to 20 weeks for people who have been out of work for long periods. Another amendment would sweeten a tax break for businesses with net operating losses in 2008 and 2009.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); SENTENCING (68%); JAIL SENTENCING (63%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (50%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



118 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 97 words

HEADLINE: Rebound in U.S. Factory Orders

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Orders to United States factories rebounded in September, helped by strength in autos, heavy machinery and military aircraft.
 The fifth increase in six months bolsters hopes that a revival in manufacturing will help support an overall economic recovery. The worry is that if consumer spending falters in coming months, orders will slump again.
 The Commerce Department says orders rose 0.9 percent in September, slightly better than the 0.8 percent advance economists had expected. Demand increased for both durable goods and nondurable goods such as chemicals and energy products. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (85%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (84%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



119 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: Dave Bing Wins Election to Full Term as Detroit Mayor

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
Dave Bing, a former basketball star and founder of an auto parts supplier, won election Tuesday to a full term as mayor of Detroit. The result may bring the long-awaited end to the fallout from a scandal that led to the departure of Mayor Kwame M. Kilpatrick and has sent Detroiters to the polls four times since February. 
 Mr. Bing, 65, won 58 percent of the vote compared with 42 percent for his challenger in the nonpartisan election, Tom Barrow. Mr. Barrow, an accountant who was once convicted of charges including filing false tax returns, twice ran for mayor years ago and lost.
 Mr. Bing became mayor in May after a special election to complete the remaining months in the term of Mr. Kilpatrick, who pleaded guilty last year to obstruction of justice in a scandal over his romantic relationship with his chief of staff. 
 Mr. Bing, whose subdued, grandfatherly style is the opposite of Mr. Kilpatrick's flashiness, is now left to face Detroit's realities: a budget deficit of nearly $300 million, a dismal unemployment rate and a public school system so troubled that an emergency financial manager was called in this year.
 Mr. Bing has largely promised to treat the city like a business: making its bureaucracy smaller to match a population that has become smaller in recent decades.
 The approach has won him praise from those exasperated with the rosy promises of mayors past, but criticism from those who accuse him of harming union jobs and, as someone who lived in the suburbs for long stretches, not understanding the city. 
 The Detroit City Council, which has often been criticized for its bickering, battling with mayors and a corruption scandal, is also certain to see dramatic change after Tuesday's election. Four members of the nine-member Council were not even on the ballot, including Monica Conyers, who has pleaded guilty to conspiring to commit bribery, and Martha Reeves, the former Motown singer, who lost in a primary. Thirteen newcomers were among those seeking the nine seats.
 A former television newscaster and a former deputy police chief, whose lawsuit against city officials helped lead to Mr. Kilpatrick's downfall, were among the leading vote-getters with a majority of precincts reporting. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CORRUPTION (77%); SCANDALS (77%); GUILTY PLEAS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); BRIBERY (74%); BASKETBALL (73%); TAX FRAUD (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); CONSPIRACY (70%); LITIGATION (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



120 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Chrysler, Lagging Rivals, to Unveil Recovery Plan

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
Chrysler will introduce its five-year plan for revival on Wednesday, including a streamlined product lineup that it hopes will win back buyers.
 Its job is getting tougher by the month. Chrysler said on Tuesday that its new-vehicle sales in the United States fell 30 percent in October, a month when total sales were flat for the industry and for its two crosstown rivals, General Motors and the Ford Motor Company. 
 G.M., which came out of bankruptcy a month later than Chrysler, reported its first year-over-year sales increase in nearly two years. 
 Based on figures so far for the year, Chrysler will most likely sell fewer than one million vehicles in all of 2009. Two years ago, it sold more than two million. Its market share fell to 7.9 percent last month -- less than half of Ford's share and a little more than one-third of G.M.'s. Chrysler's market share was 11.3 percent a year ago.
 ''They have nothing really in their arsenal to compete right now,'' said Jessica Caldwell, director of industry analysis at the car-buying Web site Edmunds.com. ''At least G.M. is making some overtures, talking about what they have and what they plan to do.''
 Chrysler hopes to start changing that perception, with a daylong series of presentations on Wednesday for hundreds of reporters, analysts, local officials and other guests. 
 The company has given few indications of its plans since emerging from bankruptcy in June and joining forces with the Italian carmaker Fiat, whose chief executive, Sergio Marchionne, now holds that title at Chrysler as well.
 Chrysler, which is nearly 10 percent owned by the federal government after borrowing $12.5 billion in emergency loans in the last year, is expected to replace some of its slow-selling models with more fuel-efficient and appealing vehicles from Fiat. Fiat also plans to bring its Alfa Romeo brand back to the United States.
 Chrysler dealers have seen little if any of the company's product plans. They hope the announcement on Wednesday gives them reasons to be excited again, though many also are desperate for help right away.
 ''We're anticipating better things in the future, but the more important thing is what we can do immediately to improve what we have,'' said Paul Whitehead, the general sales manager at Orange Coast Chrysler Jeep Dodge in Costa Mesa, Calif. 
 He added: ''We've been in survival mode for the last 15 or 18 months. We've got to get out of survival mode and start profiting.''
 October was a better month for carmakers, and provided more evidence that the market was slowly but steadily recovering from the lows it hit earlier this year. Ford said sales were up 3 percent, and G.M.'s sales rose 5 percent, the first increase since January 2008.
 ''We're certainly not going to declare victory today, but we're making progress toward growing strong brands and driving results,'' Susan Docherty, G.M.'s vice president for United States sales, said on a conference call with analysts and reporters. ''I don't want anybody to think we've got this licked. We've got a lot more work to do.''
 Sales for Toyota and Honda were flat. Nissan was up 6 percent, and Hyundai, which built considerable momentum during the recession, reported a 49 percent increase.
 The industry's seasonally adjusted, annualized selling rate climbed in October to the highest level of 2009, except for the inflated numbers posted in July and August during the federal government's cash-for-clunkers program. That program gave a credit of up to $4,500 to those who bought a more efficient vehicle.
 Demand fell significantly in September, after the program ended and dealers were left with depleted inventories of their most popular vehicles. Automakers now expect to finish this year with a few months of increasing sales as consumers regain some confidence in the economy.
 ''We're not popping Champagne corks, but people on the bubble are feeling more stable,'' said Ken Czubay, Ford's vice president for United States sales, service and marketing. Ford posted its October sales increase, its third in the last four months, a day after reporting a $997 million third-quarter profit.
 Ford was able to increase sales even while cutting its spending on sales incentives by 30 percent from a year ago. G.M. spent considerably more than Ford on discounts, and more than half of G.M.'s sales were 2009 models, while about 80 percent of Ford's sales were 2010 models.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ford Escape
Chevrolet Impala CHARTS: How the Industry Fared
How the Automakers Fared
Most Popular Cars and Trucks(Source: MotorIntelligence.com)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES FIGURES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (79%); AUTOMAKERS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (79%); MOTOR VEHICLES (79%); MARKET SHARE (77%); NEW CAR DEALERS (74%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FIAT SPA (93%); FORD MOTOR CO (93%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (93%); F (BIT) (93%); FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%)

PERSON: SERGIO MARCHIONNE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



121 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: China Approves a Disney Theme Park in Shanghai

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES; Keith Bradsher contributed reporting from Hong Kong.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
After a courtship of about 20 years, the Walt Disney Company has won approval from the central government of China to build a Disneyland-style theme park in Shanghai, Robert A. Iger, Disney's chief executive, said Tuesday.
 The agreement for a Shanghai Disneyland is a landmark deal that carries enormous cultural and financial implications. Analysts estimate the initial park -- not including hotels and resort infrastructure -- will cost $3.5 billion, making it one of the largest-ever foreign investments in China. 
 The initial resort, with a mix of shopping areas, hotels and a Magic Kingdom-style theme park, will sprawl across 1,000 acres of the city's Pudong district -- with the theme park occupying about 100 of those acres. It would be a little bigger than Disneyland in Anaheim, Calif., and on par with the parks in Paris and Tokyo. It is expected to open in five or six years. 
 Disney's plans are ambitious: If further development of the resort happens as expected over the coming decades -- still a big if -- it will encompass more than 1,700 acres and have a capacity rivaling Disney World in Florida, which attracts about 45 million annual visitors. 
 The company's goal is to create an engine that will drive demand among China's 1.3 billion residents for other Disney products, from video games to Broadway-style shows to DVDs. Disney typically relies on the creation of new Disney TV channels to pump its brand abroad, but China's limits on foreign media have made that impossible. The approval, notably, did not come with concessions from China on the television front.
 Mr. Iger called the approval ''a very significant milestone'' in a statement, taking care to praise China as ''one of the most dynamic, exciting and important countries in the world.'' A spokeswoman declined to elaborate on details. Throwing open its doors to such a uniquely American -- and permanent -- entertainment experience is a milestone for China, which has aggressively protected its culture from Westernization in general and Hollywood in particular. Only 20 non-Chinese films are allowed to be shown in theaters each year, for instance, and those are often edited.
 ''Disney, perhaps the most iconic American brand of all, is supercharged in this department,'' said Orville Schell, director of the Asia Society's Center on U.S.-China Relations.
 It was unclear what convinced China to finally approve the deal after years of off-again, on-again talks. The prospect of creating tens of thousands of jobs at a tough economic moment might have played a role, Mr. Schell and other analysts said.
 Others have speculated that the timing involved President Obama's inaugural visit to China later this month.
 Mr. Schell said he saw something more at work. ''It's a signal that now they will tolerate a certain kind of Western investment,'' he said.
 Disney will own about 40 percent of the Shanghai resort, with the remainder owned by a holding company formed by a consortium of Chinese companies selected by the government, according to people with knowledge of the plan but who were not authorized to speak publicly.
 Only the Magic Kingdom-style portion of the project needed Beijing's approval; Disney will now negotiate with Shanghai authorities on construction plans, but that is considered a matter of process.
 Details about rides are still being worked out, but there are to be a smattering of classic attractions and new rides developed specifically for Shanghai, perhaps incorporating Chinese stories and history.
 Disney is often accused of force-feeding its products to international markets and thus homogenizing culture. The company's heavy-handed creation of Disneyland Paris in the early 1990s, for instance, was a public relations disaster; French farmers with pitch forks protested Disney.
 But the company, under new leadership since 2005, has worked to erase that imperious reputation by bending to the quirks of local markets and taking on local partners. Where appropriate, it has incorporated local customs; the decision to serve alcohol at Disneyland Paris helped turn that resort into a financial success.
 Disney has opened a chain of language schools in Shanghai, taking care to promise that the goal is to teach children to speak English, not to indoctrinate them with Princesses 101. (The company's characters, however, are very visible at the centers.)
 Disney, which already does more business in China than most foreign media companies, has more than 600 employees in Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou. Merchandise like plush toys and Mickey Mouse apparel is sold at about 6,000 branded locations.
 The company delivers about a dozen hours of television programming (''Mickey Mouse Clubhouse'') to local stations each week, and its Broadway unit has toured ''The Lion King,'' among other shows.
 But Disney executives have set a high bar for international growth, saying publicly before the recession that about 50 percent of the company's annual profit could originate overseas within a few years; now it is about a quarter of revenue and operating income.
 The company picked Shanghai largely because of its transportation network; moving guests in and out of a huge resort and feeding them while they are there pose enormous logistical challenges. About 300 million potential customers live within two hours of the site, located between the city's airport and downtown.
 ''Strategically, we know that our theme parks represent a huge tent pole for the Disney brand wherever we put them,'' Jay Rasulo, chairman of Walt Disney Parks and Resorts, said in August during an interview about the division's growth plans.
 The announcement marks the culmination of a courtship that began in July, 1990, when Zhu Rongji, then the mayor of Shanghai, made a trip to the original Disneyland in Los Angeles with four other Chinese mayors and came home determined to have a Disneyland in his city. Mr. Zhu rose through the ranks to become premier of China from1998 to 2003 and was a consistent champion of the project, said Michael Rowse, the Hong Kong government official who played a central role in negotiating the establishment of Hong Kong Disneyland, which opened four years ago.
 The Shanghai approvals come as Disney works to keep its domestic theme parks healthy amid the global economic downturn. Unlike most theme park operators, Disney has managed to keep attendance high by applying steep discounts to hotel rooms and dining. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A wall advertisement in Shanghai promoting Hong Kong Disneyland, which opened in 2005.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIPPE LOPEZ/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); RESORTS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); EXECUTIVES (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (60%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); RETAILERS (55%); THEATER (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (96%); WALT DISNEY PARKS & RESORTS (92%); WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (54%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (96%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (96%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (96%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (96%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (92%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (54%)

PERSON: ROBERT A IGER (78%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) EAST CHINA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



122 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Who Are You Calling a Narcissist, Rush?

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 I had a four-hour dinner once with Rush Limbaugh at the ''21'' Club in Manhattan, back in the days when I was still writing profiles as a ''reporterette,'' to use a Limbaugh coinage.
 He was charming, in a shy, awkward, lonely-guy way. Not a man of the people. He arrived in a chauffeured town car and ordered $70-an-ounce Beluga, Porterhouse and 1990 Corton-Charlemagne. 
 But he was not a Neanderthal, though he did have a cold and blew his nose in his napkin. He talked about Chopin's Polonaise No. 6, C.S. Lewis and how much he loved the end of the movie ''Love Story.''
 In those days, he called himself a ''harmless little fuzzball.'' He's a lot less harmless now. I went on to columny, as my pal Bill Safire called it, and Rush went on to calumny.
 As he and Sarah Palin conduct their auto-da-fe of moderate Republicans -- ''Moderates by definition have no principles,'' he told his radio audience on Monday -- Limbaugh is more than ever the face of his party, as Rahm Emanuel said.
 He's also the mouth.
 Limbaugh is right that Democrats tend to dither too much. They're always wondering if they're doing the right thing, indulging in on-the-one-hand, on-the-other paralysis by analysis, seeing, as James Carville put it, ''six sides to the Pentagon.''
 President Obama will have to step it up on jobs and fixing the deficit if he wants to block conservatives from stoking the anger of Americans who only see a recovery on Wall Street, especially given the Republican sweep in top races on Tuesday night.
 But the tactics of Limbaugh, Palin, Cheney & Fille are more cynical: They spin certainty, ignoring their side's screw-ups, and they exploit patriotism, labeling all critics as traitors.
 In an interview on ''Fox News Sunday With Chris Wallace,'' Limbaugh accused the president of trying to destroy the economy -- yes, the same economy that W. came within a whisker of ruining.
 ''I have to think that it may be on purpose,'' Limbaugh said, ''because this is just outrageous, what is happening -- a denial of liberty, an attack on freedom.''
 Asked about Afghanistan, another W. cataclysm that has left Obama agonizing, Limbaugh stated, ''I also don't think he cares much about it.'' Again suggesting that the president is an unpatriotic fop, the radio ranter averred: ''He wants to manage this rather than achieve victory.''
 He told Wallace that ''throughout the Iraq war, it was Barack Obama and the Democrat Party which actively sought the defeat of the U.S. military.'' Actually, rigorously examining the government's conduct of a war started on false pretenses is the best sort of patriotism. 
 Asked about fellow conservative George Will's contention that the United States should get out of Afghanistan, Limbaugh said, ''I don't have the benefit of knowledge that George Will has, so I trust the experts, and to me they're the people in the U.S. military.''
 Even a chickenhawk like Rush should remember how well that worked in Vietnam, or in the early years of Iraq. The founding fathers designated a civilian as commander in chief for a reason.
 Military brass have told the White House that this is the first time in eight years that they have gotten the attention and resources that they've needed in Afghanistan.
 If W. had gone to Dover in the middle of the night to salute the war dead, Limbaugh and Liz Cheney would have been gushing about his patriotism.
 But since it's Obama who at last showed up there to see the brutal cost of war, they simply have to dismiss the moving moment as a publicity stunt.
 Years ago, when I dubbed Dubya ''The Boy Emperor,'' Limbaugh spewed a stream of personal invective about me that embarrassed even my mother, a Limbaugh fan.
 But now Limbaugh calls Obama the ''man-child president.''
 The 48-year-old Obama is skinny and getting skinnier, but there's nothing childish about him. He more or less raised himself and came to terms with his Oedipal demons on his own, and he radiates a hard-won maturity.
 W., on the other hand, was like a kid who knew that Daddy's friends would take care of him; he was always running off to the gym or going biking, leaving the governing to his regents, Cheney and Rummy, or incompetents like Brownie.
 At our long-ago dinner, Limbaugh credited his success with being ''one-dimensional.'' ''I'm totally concerned with me,'' he said. And that was way before he got a contract for $400 million, so we can only imagine how one-dimensional he is now.
 But on Sunday, he ripped the president for having ''an out-of-this-world ego,'' for being ''very narcissistic,'' ''immature, inexperienced, in over his head.'' (Isn't immaturity scoring OxyContin from your maid?)
 It gives new meaning to pot, kettle and black. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); CONSERVATISM (67%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (63%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (63%)

PERSON: RUSH LIMBAUGH (92%); RAHM EMANUEL (51%); SARAH PALIN (51%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (76%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



123 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: A Year After Dousing, Republicans' Hope Is Rekindled

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Republican victories in the races for New Jersey and Virginia governors put the party in a stronger position to turn back the political wave President Obama unleashed last year, setting the stage for Republicans to raise money, recruit candidates and ride the excitement of an energized base as the party heads into next year's midterm elections.
 But a Democratic victory in an upstate New York Congressional district -- after an ideologically pitched battle between moderates and conservatives over how best to lead Republicans back to power -- signaled that the Republican Party faces continued upheaval. The Democratic victory came over a conservative candidate who, with the enthusiastic backing of national conservative leaders and well-financed grass-roots organizations, had forced out a Republican candidate who supported abortion rights and gay rights.
 The results in the New Jersey and Virginia races underscored the difficulties Mr. Obama is having transforming his historic victory a year ago into either a sustained electoral advantage for Democrats or a commanding ideological position over conservatives in legislative battles. 
 The coalition that swept him into the White House was absent on Tuesday night, with evidence that the young, African-American and first-time voters who supported Mr. Obama failed to turn out to help the Democrats Mr. Obama had campaigned for: Gov. Jon S. Corzine in New Jersey and R. Creigh Deeds in Virginia. (There are no exit polls in the upstate Congressional race to provide demographic information on the electoral outcome.)
 Independent voters who had flocked to Mr. Obama in Virginia and New Jersey last year shifted on Tuesday to the Republican candidates in both states, Christopher J. Christie in New Jersey and Robert F. McDonnell in Virginia, according to exit polls in both states. That is a swing that will certainly be noted by moderate Congressional Democrats facing re-election next year, who may now be more reluctant to support Mr. Obama on tough votes in Congress.
 Still, even as Republicans celebrated their first wisp of good news in more than a year, they confronted results likely to fuel a continuation of the arguments that have torn the party with increased intensity in recent days. 
 That upstate race drew national attention after conservatives pushed aside the Republican Party and rallied around their preferred candidate, Douglas L. Hoffman on the Conservative Party ticket, asserting that the party should back only fervent conservatives, rather than accept candidates who veered from party dogma on issues like abortion and financial restraint. 
 ''Conservatives can win when they emphasize the right things and don't allow their message to get co-opted,'' said Saul Anuzis, a former chairman of the Michigan Republican Party. ''The Democrats and some of their friends in the media attempt to paint all conservatives as fire-breathing cavemen.''
 The victory of the Democratic candidate, Bill Owens, over Mr. Hoffman clearly surprised Republican leaders and offered one bit of good news to the White House, which put a last-minute effort into trying to ensure a Democratic victory there. 
 ''If there is a big backlash against Democrats, why did we just pick up a Democrat in a district that hasn't elected a Democrat in 150 years?'' asked David Axelrod, a senior adviser to Mr. Obama. ''The real story here is, I think this thing is ambiguous. Yes, Democrats lost in New Jersey and Virginia, but if you look at those races, the factors were locals.''
 In those two states, which, in their size and diversity, might offer a better testing ground for a party looking for new approaches, Mr. Christie and Mr. McDonnell won after decidedly playing down their conservative views on social issues. Their relentless focus on jobs and the economy -- voters in both states listed those as their top issues in exit polls --appeared to blunt the effort of Democrats to undercut the candidates by pointing to their history of conservatism on social issues.
 That was particularly the case with Mr. McDonnell, whose long-established conservative record on issues like abortion and gay rights apparently gave him enough leeway with conservative voters to avoid any engagement on these issues.
 ''He focused on the issues that are on people's minds: jobs, taxes,'' said Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi, the head of the Republican Governors Association. ''I don't think there are a lot of governors who are more conservative than I am. But I try to run campaigns on what people are interested in.''
 The Republican candidate in the New York race, Dede Scozzafava, suspended her campaign over the weekend, pointing to diminishing contributions and polls suggesting she was heading to a defeat. Within an hour, the chairman of the Republican National Committee, Michael Steele, who had strongly backed Ms. Scozzafava, announced his support for Mr. Hoffman. 
 The critical question after this setback is whether the conservative groups who had clearly signaled that they intended to press their advantage and challenge other Republican candidates they considered too moderate would now have the impetus or support to continue down that road.
 The immediate focus of those potential challenges is in Florida, where Gov. Charlie Crist is facing a primary challenge from the right in a race for a United States Senate seat, and Illinois, where Representative Mark Steven Kirk is considering running for Senate. When Chris Chocola, the president of Club for Growth, a group that advocates conservative economic policies, was asked on ABC News if Mr. Kirk was the kind of candidate his group could support in a primary, he responded, ''Probably not.''
 The results suggested the limits of the political influence of Mr. Obama, who campaigned intensively for Mr. Corzine and reluctantly for Mr. Deeds. Mr. Obama remains popular at least in New Jersey, the exit polls showed, but that did not do much good for the state's soon-to-be-former governor. That is not the kind of lesson a president wants as he heads into tough battles on issues like health care and climate control.
 For Republicans, the results on Tuesday were welcome news after one of the party's toughest years. But the victories occurred on a relatively small playing ground. And in an off-year election, far fewer voters turn out than in a general election.
 The results will certainly lift the Republican Party for some period. Yet history suggests they will not necessarily predict what will happen in the far more consequential races next year, when 39 governors' seats, 38 Senate seats and the entire House is up for re-election.
 Indeed, Mr. Axelrod acknowledged that Mr. Obama's supporters had not shown up in New Jersey and Virginia, but he said he did not believe that meant the end of the Obama coalition.
 ''That doesn't mean they won't come out for us,'' he said. ''I think they'll come out for national races. But this wasn't a national race.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert F. McDonnell, a Republican who was easily elected governor of Virginia, celebrated Tuesday night with family members and supporters at the Marriott Hotel in Richmond. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); ABORTION (73%); GAYS & LESBIANS (68%); LGBT RIGHTS (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JON CORZINE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



124 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: BLOOMBERG WINS 3RD TERM IN TIGHT RACE; CHRISTIE TOPS CORZINE; VIRGINIA GOES C.O.P.: Governor's Races Seen as Jolts for Obama

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER and IAN URBINA; David Kocieniewski and Nate Schweber contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Republicans swept contests for governor in New Jersey and Virginia on Tuesday as voters went to the polls filled with economic uncertainty, dealing President Obama a setback and building momentum for a Republican comeback attempt in next year's midterm Congressional elections.
 But in a closely watched Congressional race in upstate New York, a Democrat who received a late push from the White House triumphed over a conservative candidate who attracted national backers ranging from Rush Limbaugh to Sarah Palin, the former Alaska governor. 
 In New Jersey, a former federal prosecutor, Christopher J. Christie, became the first Republican to win statewide in 12 years by vowing to attack the state's fiscal problems with the same aggressiveness he used to lock up corrupt politicians.
 He overcame a huge Democratic voter advantage and a relentless barrage of negative commercials to defeat Jon S. Corzine, an unpopular incumbent who outspent him by more than two to one and drew heavily on political help from the White House, including three visits to the state from President Obama. 
 ''We are in a crisis; the times are extraordinarily difficult, but I stand here tonight full of hope for the future,'' said Mr. Christie, 47, who will become New Jersey's 55th governor. ''Tomorrow begins the task of fixing a broken state.''
 Mr. Corzine, 62, who entered politics a decade ago after a career at Goldman Sachs, conceded at 10:55 p.m. ''It has been quite a journey,'' he said. ''There's a bright future ahead for New Jersey if we stay focused on people's lives, and I'm telling you, I'm going to do that for the rest of my life.''
 With 98 percent of precincts reporting, Mr. Christie had 49 percent of the vote, Mr. Corzine 44 percent.
 In Virginia, where Mr. Obama was the first Democratic presidential nominee to carry the state since 1964, Robert F. McDonnell, a Republican and former state attorney general, rolled to victory over R. Creigh Deeds, a veteran state senator.
 With 99 percent of precincts reporting, Mr. McDonnell had 59 percent and Mr. Deeds 41 percent. Mr. McDonnell's victory, along with Republican victories in the races for attorney general and lieutenant governor, ended eight years of Democratic control in Richmond.
 In New York's 23rd Congressional District, Douglas L. Hoffman, a little known accountant running on the Conservative Party line, conceded after midnight to his Democratic rival, Bill Owens, after driving a moderate Republican from the race. 
 The three races marked the first major elections since the country plunged into the worst recession in decades, and basic economic issues -- job losses, foreclosures, taxes -- were front and center.
 In Virginia, Mr. McDonnell, avoided divisive social issues, concentrating instead on his plans to create jobs, improve the economy and fix the state's transportation problems.
 In New Jersey, Mr. Christie held Mr. Corzine, a onetime Goldman Sachs chief executive, accountable for rising unemployment, persistent budget deficits, and his failure to gain control over skyrocketing property taxes, the nation's highest. Voters embraced Mr. Christie even though he offered little detail about how he would fix the state's chronic financial problems and instead appealed to voters hungry for change.
 Voters in both states remained strongly supportive of President Obama, exit polls conducted by Edison Research showed, though they said that was not a factor in their decisions. But independent voters, who in New Jersey favored the president in 2008 and in Virginia split between Mr. Obama and John McCain, delivered strong margins for both Mr. Christie and Mr. McDonnell, the surveys showed.
 In New Jersey, a sprawling corruption case begun by Mr. Christie, which culminated in July with the arrests of dozens of politicians and others, appeared to have taken its toll on the Democratic get-out-the-vote machinery. In Hudson County, a party bastion where a number of Democratic officials were charged, only 39 percent of registered voters cast their ballots, county officials said.
 The races in New Jersey, Virginia and New York attracted intense interest because they provided the first test of President Obama's ability to transfer the excitement he unleashed last year to other Democratic candidates.
 The White House, to varying degrees, became involved in all three races, worried that defeats would undermine the public's perceptions of the president's political clout and his ability to pass major legislation.
 With polls of the Virginia race showing Mr. Deeds falling further behind, the White House refrained from an all-out effort on his behalf, though Mr. Obama campaigned with Mr. Deeds twice. 
 In New York, however, the president's aides played a pivotal role in helping Mr. Owens over the weekend, engineering a surprise endorsement from the moderate Republican who had abandoned the race under pressure from conservatives. 
 And in New Jersey, the White House took a firm hand in guiding Mr. Corzine's re-election campaign, culminating in rallies featuring the president campaigning with the governor in Newark and Camden on Sunday.
 The victor in Virginia, Mr. McDonnell, 55, is a social and fiscal conservative, but ran on a more moderate platform that appealed to voters in the suburbs in Fairfax County, where he was raised. By contrast, Mr. Deeds, 51, had a difficult time introducing himself to densely populated Northern Virginia.
 Mr. Deeds sought to portray Mr. McDonnell as a radical conservative by publicizing his 20-year-old master's thesis, which criticized working women and single mothers. But polls showed voters found Mr. Deeds's commercials too negative. 
 The New York race emerged in the national spotlight after President Obama appointed the district's long-serving congressman, John M. McHugh, a Republican, as secretary of the Army. Almost immediately after local Republican leaders chose Dede Scozzafava, a supporter of gay rights and abortion rights who embraced the federal stimulus package, she came under attack by conservatives as heretical.
 Leading conservative voices lined up behind Mr. Hoffman, of Lake Placid, and opponents of same-sex marriage and abortion flooded the district with volunteers from across the country.
 In the final days of the campaign, Ms. Scozzafava stunned her party by withdrawing from the race and then backing Mr. Owens. Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. traveled to Watertown on Monday to rally Democrats and disgruntled Republicans, but the event drew only about 200 people.
 In New Jersey, Mr. Christie attacked Mr. Corzine's economic leadership, saying he had driven jobs and residents from the state. The governor countered that Mr. Christie offered no viable plan for digging New Jersey out of its enormous financial hole.
 Christopher J. Daggett, a former state and federal environmental official, made a splash with a plan to cut property taxes and a strong debate performance, but was hobbled by weak fund-raising. After reaching 20 percent in one public-opinion poll, he failed to break out of the double digits.
 New Jersey was a deep-blue state, and Mr. Obama's election boosted Democratic registration, giving the party a 700,000-vote advantage. Mr. Corzine assailed Mr. Christie, who was named United States attorney by President George W. Bush in 2001, as a philosophical clone of Mr. Bush. 
 The White House, viewing New Jersey as its best hope for victory, poured resources into the race. The president's pollster overhauled the campaign's message, White House aides reviewed Corzine commercials and attended strategy sessions, and cabinet officials lined up to appear at Mr. Corzine's side. 
 But Mr. Corzine's abiding unpopularity -- his highest approval rating followed his 2007 car accident and was chalked up to pity -- suggested that even ''Obama surge'' voters who voted for the first time last year could not tilt the outcome in the governor's favor.
 No issue loomed larger in New Jersey than the economy, which Mr. Corzine assured residents in January ranked as his No. 1, 2 and 3 priorities. But Mr. Christie never wavered from a simple strategy: making the vote a referendum on Mr. Corzine and highlighting how his supposed Wall Street financial skills had been a bust for the state. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Christopher J. Christie greeted supporters Tuesday night after defeating Gov. Jon S. Corzine in a race defined by the economy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER BARTH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A1)
Gov. Jon S. Corzine of New Jersey, a Democrat, waiting to deliver his concession speech to Christopher J. Christie, a Republican former federal prosecutor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.A23) CHARTS:THE VOTE FOR NEW JERSEY GOVERNOR
 PROFILE OF NEW JERSEY VOTERS: Results of exit polls conducted Tuesday in the race for New Jersey governor between Jon S. Corzine, Christopher J. Christie and Christopher J. Daggett. (Source: Edison Research) (pg.A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); CONSERVATISM (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); LAWYERS (72%); FORECLOSURE (61%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (61%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); SARAH PALIN (59%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); VIRGINIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



125 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: What to Make Of a Big Deal Gone Sour

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER. 
E-mail: dwyer@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Early Tuesday, Suzanne Wasserman walked into the polling place on 18th Street at First Avenue in Manhattan, then voted in a flash, a straight Democratic ticket. And yes, she knew that it would take a colossal upset for her candidate, William C. Thompson Jr., to beat Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. 
 Still. 
 ''Bloomberg represented this development gone wild,'' she said. ''That seemed like a great idea when times were flush.'' 
 Ms. Wasserman lives in Stuyvesant Town, a place that seems to be headed for one of the greatest financial collapses in city history. A third term for Mr. Bloomberg may represent the triumph of gilded politics. But Stuyvesant Town and its adjacent development, Peter Cooper Village, are the places where money has lost, at least for a round. 
 Three years ago, the largest real estate deal in American history was made for the land and 110 buildings that make up Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper. The price was $5.4 billion. By themselves, the two developments, which stretch from 14th Street to 23rd Street east of First Avenue, would make a decent-size small town in many parts of the country. More than 11,000 apartments are home to about 25,000 people. 
 Under a mountain of debt, the new owners would need the rents to shoot up quickly, and need tenants with lower rents to move out at drastically higher rates than had been customary. ''It could only be achieved by taking direct aim at many longtime, perfectly legitimate tenants, who were protected by the law,'' said Daniel R. Garodnick, a member of the City Council who grew up in Peter Cooper and still lives there.
 Before the sale went through, a group of residents had assembled a bid for the property, with help from the city pension funds, but it was the lowest of three prices. The high bidder, Tishman Speyer, was led by Jerry Speyer, an ally of Mr. Bloomberg's. 
 ''It would have been nice if the mayor had weighed in on our behalf,'' said Alvin Doyle, president of the tenants' association for Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper. ''But he just wanted things to go the way the market went.''
 At the time, Mr. Bloomberg said he was not concerned about the higher rents that the $5.4 billion price would require. ''You always feel sorry for those who can't afford it, but those who can afford it say, 'What about me?' '' he said. 
 If the considerations were strictly economic, it would be simple to say that the owners of Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper had every right to get the highest price for their property. They had earned their market. But one of the lessons of the last two years is that there are few purely economic questions. Public and social interests can be ignored only until a bailout is needed.
 The wealth in Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper was created, in significant part, by the city of New York: 60 years ago, the city acquired the land under eminent domain and turned it over to Metropolitan Life for development. 
 By 2006, when the insurance company put the property up for sale, it would have been difficult to assign a dollar value to the public investment of land and tax abatements that made Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper possible. The city's purpose was to provide decent, affordable housing for white veterans returning from World War II and their families. City officials refused to include a provision barring discrimination, arguing that integration would drive down the owners' profitability.
 So the $5.4 billion paid to Metropolitan Life in 2006 was built on its own investment, public subsidies and whatever cachet racial discrimination bestowed on the developments for the years that it was permitted. 
 Plus one other element.
 ''WE were in a bubble,'' Ms. Wasserman said. ''I could have told you in 2006 this place was not worth this much money. The bubble was about to burst. I'm just an average New York City citizen.''
 Based on its rent rolls, the value of Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper is now thought to be less than half of what Tishman Speyer and its investment partners paid for it. By every sign, they are moving toward default on the money borrowed for the purchase. 
 When Mr. Bloomberg first argued a year ago that he should be allowed to run for a third term, his surrogates said he was the essential man to lead New York after the global economic collapse.
 Among the most influential of his allies making that argument was Mr. Speyer, who bought Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper at $5.4 billion. He had better hope that Mr. Bloomberg knows what to do with a bubble that has burst. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CITIES (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); HISTORY (70%); PENSION FUNDS (67%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



126 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Christie Unseats Corzine in New Jersey; Conservative Concedes New York Race

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM; David Kocieniewski, Suzanne Moore, Adam Nagourney, Jeremy W. Peters, Nate Schweber and Ian Urbina contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Christopher J. Christie, a Republican former United States attorney who said he would vanquish corruption from the halls of New Jersey government, won the New Jersey governor's race on Tuesday, defeating the incumbent, Gov. Jon S. Corzine, and striking a blow against the Democratic party on a national stage.
 Mr. Christie, who accused Mr. Corzine of leading the state into economic turmoil, edged out Mr. Corzine by about four percentage points. 
Mr. Christie's victory was a surprising outcome to a bruising and bitterly fought race that often descended into personal attacks by both candidates. Although the campaign focused mainly on local issues, including a statewide corruption scandal, Republicans across the country were quick to portray Mr. Christie's win as a defeat for President Obama, who was in the state campaigning for Mr. Corzine just a few days ago.
 The decision by the White House to throw Mr. Obama into the race was a tacit acknowledgment that a defeat for Mr. Corzine would be interpreted as a rebuke of the president, potentially affecting the president's ability to pass major legislation and the public's perceptions of the Democratic influence.
 Republicans also captured the night's other major gubernatorial race, in Virginia, where Robert F. McDonnell, a former state attorney general, defeated the Democratic candidate, R. Creigh Deeds, a stark reversal of fortune for Democrats who have held control in Richmond for the past eight years.
 But in a significant defeat for the more right-wing faction of the G.O.P., a Democratic candidate captured a Congressional seat in upstate New York that had stayed in Republican hands for more than a century. 
 Bill Owens, the Democrat, defeated an upstart Conservative party candidate, Douglas L. Hoffman, who had gained support from prominent conservatives like former Gov. Sarah Palin and Newt Gingrich. A more moderate Republican nominee withdrew from the race days before the election, after pressure from national officials. Mr. Hoffman conceded the race. 
 In Maine, voters remained divided on a referendum to reject a law that would allow same-sex marriage in the state. Voters who opposed gay marriage held a slight edge after more than three-quarters of the vote had been counted.
 In another New England race, Boston Mayor Thomas M. Menino won an unprecedented fifth term, defeating his fellow Democrat, City Councilor Michael F. Flaherty Jr. It was the toughest re-election fight of Mr. Menino's career, but he relied on his popularity and impressive political machine to neutralize charges from his opponent that the city needed a change.
 In New York City, Michael R. Bloomberg won a third term, but his margin of victory - 5 percentage points - was relatively narrow, particularly when juxtaposed to the fact that the mayor had vastly outspent his Democratic challenger, William C. Thompson, the city's comptroller. 
 Off-year races are often sleepy affairs, and the turnout, for the most part, appeared to be low on Tuesday. Few long lines were reported, even in New Jersey, the scene of the day's toughest-to-call race. Voter apathy seemed to belie the more dramatic narrative that has been hoisted on Tuesday's races, which political officials have described as high-stakes contests that could shape next year's Congressional agenda and reveal deep divisions within a Republican party seeking a return path to power.
 In New Jersey, a fierce battle between Mr. Corzine and Mr. Christie quickly deteriorated into ad hominem attacks. Both candidates spent the final day of the campaign in a flurry of last-minute campaigning. Shaking hands with voters in Bayonne around noon, Mr. Corzine pointed to the sunny blue sky above the Broadway Diner and called it a good omen -- but only after buttonholing the city's mayor, Mark Smith, leaning in close and growling at him to ''drag, drag'' people to the polls if necessary.
 Mr. Christie held the hands of his youngest son and daughter as he walked into a voting booth in Mendham, N.J. at 7 a.m. to cast his vote. Acknowledging the uncertainty of a race that remained, in its final hours, still too close to call, Mr. Christie told his supporters, ''Life will be a lot different tomorrow, one way or another.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); SCANDALS (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); REFERENDUMS (62%); MARRIAGE (61%); GAYS & LESBIANS (61%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (61%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (51%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (79%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); SARAH PALIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



127 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Democrat Wins a Narrow Victory in Closely Watched House Race Upstate

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS; Joe Lo Templio reported from Plattsburgh.

DATELINE: SARANAC LAKE, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Democrats won a special election in New York State's northernmost Congressional district Tuesday, a setback for national conservatives who heavily promoted a third candidate in what became an intense debate over the direction of the Republican Party.
 The Democratic candidate, Bill Owens, led with 49 percent of the vote, while the Conservative Party candidate, Douglas L. Hoffman, had 46 percent. 
 Just before 12:30 a.m. Mr. Owens stepped up to a lectern at an American Legion Hall in Plattsburgh, his hometown, and urged residents of the district to put aside the partisan fighting that characterized the race. 
 ''The challenges that we face are not Democratic or Republican,'' he said. ''They are not liberal or conservative. They're challenges that Americans face and that we will overcome with American resolve.''
 Mr. Hoffman spoke to a deflated crowd of about 50 in a hotel ballroom here soon after midnight on Wednesday and said he had called Mr. Owens to concede. 
 ''Thank you to every single person out there that joined my team and fought back for America,'' Mr. Hoffman said. ''This one was worth the fight. And it's only one fight in the battle, and we have to keep fighting.''
 The district has been a Republican stronghold for generations, and the party has represented parts of it since the 19th century.
 The battle became one of the most closely followed races in the nation, drawing in some of the biggest forces in politics in both parties. Republicans who viewed the race as a test of the party's most deeply held conservative principles -- including Sarah Palin, the former governor of Alaska; Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota, a presidential hopeful; and grass-roots groups that have forcefully opposed Democratic economic and health care policies -- rallied behind Mr. Hoffman.
 Democrats threw muscle behind the race as well, eager to avoid a potentially embarrassing defeat as President Obama's approval ratings have softened and efforts to portray them as the party of big government and deficit spending appear to be sticking. A win in the Republican-leaning 23rd Congressional District would provide Democrats with a welcome boost, while a loss would reinforce the notion that the party is struggling.
 The seat became vacant after President Obama appointed its long-serving Republican congressman, John M. McHugh, as secretary of the Army.
 Leading conservative voices -- including The Wall Street Journal's editorial page and The Weekly Standard and the talk show personalities Rush Limbaugh and Glenn Beck -- took on the Republican nominee, Assemblywoman Dede Scozzafava, who supports gay rights and abortion rights and had embraced some Democratic economic policies like the federal stimulus package. They labeled her as too liberal.
 The attacks on Ms. Scozzafava eventually took their toll, and she stunned her party over the weekend first by withdrawing from the race and then by urging her supporters to vote for Mr. Owens, a 60-year-old lawyer from Plattsburgh.
 But the ballots had already been printed, and early results showed her picking up 6 percent of the vote. It was unclear how many of those were protest votes, and how many simply did not know she had left the race.
 The White House became closely involved in the efforts to boost Mr. Owens's candidacy in the final days of the campaign. They orchestrated an effort that persuaded Ms. Scozzafava to endorse Mr. Owens. Vice President Joseph R. Biden rolled through the district on Monday to support Mr. Owens.
 But the race was perhaps most notable for the fissures it opened in the Republican Party. Ms. Scozzafava, who was selected as the Republican nominee by the 11 leaders of the county committees that comprise this vast district along the Canadian border, was excoriated by Washington's conservative establishment almost as soon as she was nominated.
 Ms. Scozzafava united social and fiscal conservatives from across the country firmly behind Mr. Hoffman, a previously unknown 59-year-old accountant from Lake Placid -- which is not in the district. 
 The Club for Growth, a group that promotes limited government and lower taxes, spent about $1 million promoting Mr. Hoffman. Social conservative organizations like the Susan B. Anthony List, which opposes abortion, and the National Organization for Marriage, which fights same-sex marriage laws, joined forces in support of Mr. Hoffman. They printed literature, made phone calls and flooded the district with volunteers from across the country.
 ''This is probably the most amazing coalition-building I've seen in a long time -- probably decades,'' said Marilyn Musgrave, a former Republican congresswoman from Colorado who now works with the Susan B. Anthony List and came to New York to campaign for Mr. Hoffman.
 On Tuesday morning, Ms. Musgrave stood in frigid weather for several hours outside a state office building in downtown Watertown with a group of home-schooled students passing out blue fliers that read, ''Doug Hoffman shares our values!''
 Ms. Musgrave said the overwhelming conservative embrace of Mr. Hoffman would show leaders in Washington that political bases should not be taken for granted. ''Don't just assume we're yours.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bill Owens, 60-year-old lawyer from Plattsburgh, N.Y., won in a hard-fought campaign in the 23rd Congressional District that drew national attention. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); GOVERNORS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); ARMIES (67%); GAYS & LESBIANS (60%); LGBT RIGHTS (60%); ABORTION (50%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN LEGION (57%)

PERSON: JOHN M MCHUGH (59%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); SARAH PALIN (58%); TIM PAWLENTY (58%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (58%); GLENN BECK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



128 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 208 words

HEADLINE: Nation-Building at Home: A Call for Sacrifice

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Thomas L. Friedman is correct in saying we should be about the business of building a better nation right here in America (''More Poetry, Please,'' column, Nov. 1). 
 While we use costly human and financial resources to do nation-building in Iraq and Afghanistan, our own country's infrastructure and economic, social and political fabrics are being torn asunder. Are our wars in Iraq and Afghanistan really making us safer and more secure?
 About 30 years ago, Jimmy Carter was the last American president to call us to sacrifice. That plea was soundly rejected by Ronald Reagan and the American people. Greed and selfishness have held sway here ever since and have brought us to where we are now.
 President Obama is a great communicator. Now, he must use his skills to call on all of us to sacrifice for the common good. In times of war and peace, the middle class and the poor share the brunt of self-sacrifice in our country. What are the rich, corporations, shareholders and Democratic and Republican politicians willing to sacrifice for the common good? 
 If we don't begin to work together for the common good, we will join all the other mighty empires that rose and fell. 
 Paul L. Whiteley Sr. Louisville, Ky., Nov. 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICS (76%); IRAQ WAR (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); INFRASTRUCTURE (56%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (73%); JIMMY CARTER (56%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (50%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



129 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: Breaking an 8-Year Streak, Virginia Elects a Republican as Governor

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA; Contributing reporting were Damien Cave from Miami, Monica Davey from Chicago, Shaila Dewan from Atlanta, Abby Goodnough from Boston, and Dalia Sussman from New York.

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Va. 

 BODY:
Robert F. McDonnell, a Republican and a former state attorney general, won a decisive victory in Virginia's governor's race Tuesday, a stark reversal of fortune for Democrats who have held control in Richmond for the past eight years. 
 Mr. McDonnell defeated the Democratic candidate, R. Creigh Deeds, an 18-year state senator from rural Bath County in western Virginia. With 99 percent of the precincts reporting, Mr. McDonnell had 59 percent of the vote, and Mr. Deeds 41 percent.
 Republicans cited the victory as a repudiation of the Obama administration and the national Democratic Party's agenda, especially that of departing Gov. Tim Kaine, the chairman of the Democratic National Committee.
 Nonetheless, exit polls conducted by Edison Research on Tuesday showed that support for Mr. Obama had diminished only slightly in the state since his victory here in 2008. The polls suggested that many of Mr. Obama's voters stayed home on Tuesday, allowing Mr. McDonnell to win on strong support among white men and independents and among voters who say they are very worried about the direction of the nation's economy. 
 In Maine, voters rejected a law that allows same-sex marriage, which passed in May. With 84 percent of the state's precincts reporting, a petition drive to reject the law, begun by conservatives, had the support of 53 percent of voters early Wednesday, pointing toward a stinging defeat for same-sex marriage efforts nationwide.
 In Boston, Mayor Thomas M. Menino won an unprecedented fifth term, defeating his fellow Democrat, City Councilman Michael F. Flaherty Jr. It was the toughest re-election fight of Mr. Menino's career, but he relied on his popularity and an impressive political machine to neutralize arguments that the city needed a change.
 In Atlanta, Mary Norwood, the front-runner whose success has raised the possibility that the city could elect a white mayor for the first time since 1973, will compete in a Dec. 1 runoff with her closest competitor, Kasim Reed, a black lawyer and former state legislator. Ms. Norwood won 43 percent of Tuesday's vote, short of the majority needed to win outright. Mr. Reed had 38 percent.
 Mayor Dave Bing of Detroit, a former basketball star and founder of an auto parts supplier, won election to a full term in the financially-struggling city. The night's results may mark the city's long-awaited end to the fallout from a scandal that led to the departure of a mayor and has sent Detroiters to the polls four times since February.
 In Pittsburgh, Mayor Luke Ravenstahl won a resounding victory for a full term at the city's helm, having inherited the office in 2006 when the incumbent died. And City Commissioner Tomas Regalado of Miami easily won the race to become the city's mayor, after promising voters a ''back to basics'' approach focused on improving city services and reining in developers.
 In Ohio, voters approved a proposal to allow full-service casinos to be built in Cleveland, Columbus, Cincinnati and Toledo. 
 While the Virginia race garnered national attention, both candidates tried to focus more on local issues, like jobs, taxes and road improvements.
 Mr. McDonnell, 55, who went into Election Day with a double-digit lead in the polls, is a social and fiscal conservative, but ran on a more centrist platform that appealed to suburban voters. At the same time, Mr. Deeds, 51, had a difficult time introducing himself to densely populated Northern Virginia. 
 ''You have allowed me to represent our vision and aspirations in one of the most pivotal elections in Virginia history,'' Mr. McDonnell said in his acceptance speech. ''And I will not let you down.''
 While a sour economy and anxiety over Mr. Obama's health care proposals presented Mr. Deeds with an uphill fight, the Republicans made inroads with constituencies that Mr. Deeds had hoped he could count on.
 In recent statewide elections, Democrats have won by securing about 60 percent of the vote in Northern Virginia, mainly the affluent suburbs of Washington. Democrats had hoped that by highlighting Mr. Deeds's rural downstate roots, they would draw in new voters to build on their strength in the northern part of the state. 
 Mr. McDonnell -- though actually quite conservative, opposing abortion rights, gun control and increased taxes -- focused on appealing to moderates and independents. His campaign avoided divisive social issues, and instead highlighted his ideas to create jobs, improve the economy, and fix the state's transportation woes. He regularly emphasized that 90 percent of the legislation he proposed as attorney general passed the General Assembly with strong bipartisan support. 
 Mr. McDonnell was careful to keep his distance from the farther right end of his party. When the conservative activist Ralph Reed sponsored robocalls to voters featuring former Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska asking them to vote their values, Mr. McDonnell's campaign declined to answer questions about the calls and emphasized that the campaign had not asked Ms. Palin to make them.
 The Republicans also undercut some of Mr. Deeds' support in the state's rural, more conservative swaths by attacking him for supporting a tax increase to pay for road improvements.
 Early in his campaign, Mr. Deeds had hoped to paint McDonnell as a radical conservative by publicizing Mr. McDonnell's 1989 master's thesis, which roundly criticized working women and single mothers. The strategy failed, pollsters concluded, as voters found those advertisements too negative.
 More than 6 in 10 voters said in exit polls Tuesday that the master's thesis had no effect on their vote. The polls showed that Mr. McDonnell had strong support among men and was also backed by most women. 
 Democrats fought hard to avoid a rout. Though the Obama administration initially expressed quiet reservations about Mr. Deeds, the president campaigned twice for him, helped him raise money, appeared in his advertisements and extended the support of his political campaign arm, Organizing for America.
 Mr. Kaine also campaigned for Mr. Deeds, and, through the Democratic National Committee, put more than $6 million behind his candidacy.
 Republicans insisted that Tuesday's results represented a significant shift in national political sentiments from the 2008 vote. 
 ''Virginia can be seen as a true bellwether or a mini-national election,'' said Michael S. Steele, the chairman of the Republican National Committee, who campaigned vigorously for Mr. McDonnell and pumped more than $9 million into the race. 
 Nevertheless, some factors that played a role in Mr. McDonnell's victory might not reflect a larger shift in the state when it comes to national politics.
 In 2008, 53 percent of voters backed Mr. Obama, and exit polls on Tuesday showed that 48 percent of voters approved of his performance. 
 As predicted, minority voters and young voters turned out in fewer numbers on Tuesday than in 2008 for the presidential election. Voters under age 30 accounted for 10 percent of the electorate on Tuesday, compared with 21 percent in 2008. While about 20 percent of the electorate in 2008 was black, exit polls showed that number was 16 percent on Tuesday.
 ''Virginia is probably turning red today because turnout is well down, and the smaller voting population is among the most Republican in modern times,'' said Larry Sabato, a political scientist at the University of Virginia. ''But if Obama can pull out his large turnout again in 2012, and the economy has clearly improved, Virginia could be blue once more.''
 The economy and unemployment were by far the most important issues to nearly half of voters, and most who said the economy was their top issue backed Mr. McDonnell. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: State Senator R. Creigh Deeds, who spoke in Richmond, Va., after losing the governor's race to Robert F. McDonnell. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A21)
 Mayor Luke Ravenstahl of Pittsburgh was re-elected. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOB DONALDSON/POST GAZETTE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); PETITIONS (71%); MARRIAGE (66%); GAYS & LESBIANS (66%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (66%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (50%); BASKETBALL (50%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); TIM KAINE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (96%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



130 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 KARZAI VOWS TO TACKLE
 Corruption in Afghanistan
 President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan, in his first speech since he was declared the winner of the much disputed presidential election, said that he wanted to tackle corruption but made no specific commitments to reorganizing his administration. PAGE A12
 GUINEA FREES MERCENARY 
 Equatorial Guinea said that it had pardoned Simon Mann, a former British special forces officer jailed last year for plotting to overthrow the country's president in a conspiracy that seemed as much a throwback to the continent's past as a catalog of bungles. PAGE A6 
 National
 ILLINOIS NEARS DECISION
 On Minors' Abortions
 Illinois officials are expected to decide how soon doctors must comply with a state law requiring that parents be notified when anyone under 18 seeks an abortion. The decision could prove to be a concluding chapter in the state's debate, more than a quarter-century old, over parental notification. PAGE A16
 STUDY ON INFANT MORTALITY
 High rates of premature birth are the main reason the United States has higher infant mortality than do many other rich countries, government researchers reported in their first detailed analysis of the longstanding problem. PAGE A15
 PHILADELPHIA TRANSIT STRIKE
 The Philadelphia transit system's largest union went on strike, crippling travel in the city. The action was in defiance of Gov. Edward G. Rendell, who over the weekend had ordered the union and the transit authority, known as Septa, to remain at the bargaining table. PAGE A15
 New York
 EAST RIVER FERRY SERVICE
 Could Be Halted
 The operator of the East River's commuter ferry says it has been unable to come to an agreement with the city about continuing a subsidy, and might have to halt the service for the third time in four years. PAGE A25
 Business
 AN ECONOMIC RECOVERY GREETED BY PESSIMISM
 Given the many problems weighing on the economy, a mediocre recovery does indeed seem more likely than a strong one. But history certainly offers pessimists and semi-pessimists some cause for humility. David Leonhardt, Economic Scene. PAGE B1
 BILL FOR PAID SICK LEAVE
 In an effort to rein in the spread of the H1N1 flu, George Miller, the chairman of the House Education and Labor Committee, introduced legislation on Tuesday that would guarantee five paid sick days for workers sent home by their employers with a contagious illness. PAGE B3
 ACCOUNTANT PLEADS GUILTY
 A guilty plea by David G. Friehling, Bernard L. Madoff's longtime accountant, indicates that the criminal investigation of the Madoff fraud may be heading in a new direction -- away from securities fraud and toward criminal tax cases. PAGE B2
 JOURNAL PLANS CITY EDITION
 The Wall Street Journal plans to assemble a local news staff in New York, continuing to expand beyond its traditional focus on business news by adding city desk beats like courthouses, City Hall and the state capital. PAGE B3
 Stores Rebound in October B1
 Battle Over Skype Nears End B2 
 Sports
 N.F.L. SEEKS HELP
 In Enforcing Its Drug Policy
 Roger Goodell, the commissioner of the N.F.L., took the unusual step of asking Congress to change federal labor laws to prevent states from interfering with the league's efforts to enforce its banned substances policy. PAGE B15
 NO LOVE LOST FOR THE PHILLIES
 Though he is a die-hard Eagles and Sixers fan, Bernard Diggs, a 62-year-old Philadelphian, does not like the Phillies, and would not care if they lost in the World Series. Not the Phillies. He took pains to explain that his deep dislike for the franchise was rooted in its history as one of the last major league teams to integrate. William C. Rhoden, Sports of The Times. PAGE B13
 Arts
 CREATING DIALOGUE 
 From Body Language
 Frederick Wiseman's latest documentary, ''La Danse: The Paris Opera Ballet,'' focuses on the camera the Palais Garnier in Paris, observing rehearsals, staff meetings and performances. A. O. Scott writes that it one of the finest dance films ever made, but says that description also sells it short. PAGE C1
 TOCQUEVILLE'S LETTERS HOME
 Most of the letters that Alexis de Tocqueville wrote home to France from America have never been published in English. But samples from a translated volume set to be released next year reveal a Tocqueville different from the one we know, or think we know, based on ''Democracy in America.'' PAGE C1
 A WRAP FOR ORSO
 The Los Angeles trattoria Orso -- loved less for its food than for the gossip on its ficus-shaded patio -- is soon to become the latest entry on a list of Hollywood lunch-and-dinner power spots that used to be. PAGE C1
 Dining
 KEEPING THE DRAMA
 Out of the Kitchen
 This fall, readers of cookbooks are getting fewer convoluted recipes that are like postcards from the frontiers of gastronomy (and about as useful in the kitchen). There are more home-cook-friendly recipes, like salt-and-sugar-roasted pork belly from a New York chef or prune cake with buttermilk icing from a ranch wife in Oklahoma. PAGE D1
 Op-ed
 THOMAS FRIEDMAN PAGE A31
 MAUREEN DOWD PAGE A31

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CORRUPTION (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (87%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (87%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); STRIKES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (76%); CONSPIRACY (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (71%); CITY LIFE (71%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); PARDONS (71%); CITIES (70%); TAX LAW (69%); PREGNANCY COMPLICATIONS (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); INFANT MORTALITY (67%); INFLUENZA (65%); SICK LEAVE (65%); FERRIES (64%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); H1N1 INFLUENZA (60%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (90%); ED RENDELL (57%); BERNARD MADOFF (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



131 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: House Bill Would Assure Workers Paid Sick Days

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
In an effort to rein in the spread of the H1N1 flu, Representative George Miller, the chairman of the House Education and Labor Committee, introduced legislation on Tuesday that would guarantee five paid sick days for workers sent home by their employers with a contagious illness. 
 Mr. Miller, Democrat of California, voiced concern that more than 40 million workers did not have paid sick days and that many workers coming into contact with public -- like restaurant or school cafeteria employees -- would go to work with H1N1 and spread the virus if they could not afford to stay home.
 According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, 39 percent of all private-sector workers do not receive paid sick days, while among the bottom 25 percent of wage earners, 63 percent do not.
 ''Sick workers advised to stay home by their employers shouldn't have to choose between their livelihood and their co-workers' or customers' health,'' Mr. Miller said. ''This will not only protect employees, but it will save employers money by ensuring that sick employees don't spread infection to co-workers and customers.''
 Under Mr. Miller's, proposal, which he called ''emergency temporary'' legislation, workers would be guaranteed the five paid days if their employers sent them home or advised them to stay home or go home. 
 Under the bill, called the Emergency Influenza Containment Act, workers deciding to stay home on their own, asserting that they are sick, would not be guaranteed paid sick days.
 The Centers for Disease Control estimates that a sick employee reporting to work would infect 1 in 10 co-workers.
 Business groups have opposed legislation requiring paid sick days, calling them expensive employer mandates for something workers and their bosses can usually work out. 
 The bill would apply to businesses with 15 or more employees. Under the proposed legislation, workers who follow their employer's direction to stay home because of contagious illness cannot be fired, disciplined or retaliated against for staying home. The bill would take effect 15 days after being signed and would expire after two years.
 Mr. Miller said that he planned hearings the week of Nov. 16. ''We would like to move it to the floor as soon as possible,'' Mr. Miller said in a telephone news briefing. ''The influenza isn't waiting for the legislative calendar.''
 Robert J. Blendon, a professor of health policy at Harvard, said that if millions more people contracted H1N1, many workers living paycheck to paycheck and not receiving paid sick days could face a financial crisis if they or their children contracted bad cases that forced the parents to miss work for one or two weeks.
 The bill is co-sponsored by Representative Lynn Woolsey, a California Democrat who is chairwoman of the labor committee's Workforce Protections Subcommittee. ''This bill will ensure that workers who are directed to stay home by their employers can do so without paying a financial penalty,'' she said.
 In May, Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the late Massachusetts Democrat, and Representative Rosa DeLauro, a Connecticut Democrat, introduced bills in the Senate and House that would guarantee seven paid sick days to all workers at businesses with 15 or more employees.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SICK LEAVE (93%); LEGISLATION (92%); H1N1 INFLUENZA (90%); INFLUENZA (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (72%); STATISTICS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE MILLER (US REPRESENTATIVE) (73%); LYNN C WOOLSEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



132 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: Ayatollah Faults U.S. Attitude Toward Talks

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH; Nazila Fathi contributed reporting from Toronto.

DATELINE: BEIRUT, Lebanon 

 BODY:
Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, lashed out at the United States in a speech on Tuesday, criticizing what he called an arrogant American attitude toward nuclear talks and saying the Obama administration had not followed through on its promises of change. 
 The speech came a day before an annual anti-America rally that could turn into a confrontation between the police and antigovernment protesters, who have vowed to take to the streets in force.
 ''The Islamic republic of Iran decided from the beginning not to prejudge and instead to consider the slogan of 'change,' '' said Ayatollah Khamenei in remarks broadcast by the state-run Press TV. ''But what we have witnessed in practice during this period of time has been in contradiction with the remarks that have been made.''
 Ayatollah Khamenei also deplored the American attitude toward the draft nuclear deal hammered out last month, in which Iran would send its uranium abroad for processing. Iran has equivocated, and Western leaders appear to be losing patience. On Monday, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton urged Iran again to accept it and emphasized that the deal would not be altered.
 ''On the one hand, Americans talk of negotiations,'' Ayatollah Khamenei said. ''On the other hand, they continue to threaten and say the negotiations must have our desired results or we will take measures.''
 The speech's tone may have been dictated in part by timing: Wednesday is the 30th anniversary of the takeover of the American Embassy in Tehran in 1979, and a customary occasion for militant posturing in the streets.
 But some analysts said the speech also appeared to signal Ayatollah Khamenei's determination to reassert his authority in the face of internal threats such as June's disputed presidential election and a renewed terrorist threat near the Pakistani border.
 ''Khamenei needs enmity with the United States in order to blame Washington when, among other things, the Iranian population rises up, economic malaise worsens or terrorist attacks happen in places like Baluchistan,'' said Karim Sadjadpour, an Iran analyst at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); IRANIAN ELECTION PROTESTS (79%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (79%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (76%); ELECTIONS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); TERRORISM (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); ANNIVERSARIES (64%); RELIGION (56%)

PERSON: ALI KHAMENEI (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (77%); BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (59%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); LEBANON (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAN (59%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



133 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: BLOOMBERG WINS 3RD TERM IN TIGHT RACE; Thompson Strong in Campaign for Mayor

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN and MICHAEL BARBARO; Reporting was contributed by Flora Fair, Joel Stonington, Mathew R. Warren and Karen Zraick.

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg pulled out a narrow re-election victory on Tuesday, as voters angry over his maneuver to undo the city's term limits law and his extravagant campaign spending provided an unexpected lift to his vastly underfinanced challenger, William C. Thompson Jr.
 Unofficial returns showed Mr. Bloomberg with 51 percent and Mr. Thompson with 46 percent. The result will make Mr. Bloomberg only the fourth three-term mayor in the last century.
 ''Conventional wisdom says historically third terms haven't been too successful,'' the mayor told supporters at the Sheraton New York Hotel in Midtown Manhattan around midnight after a tense night of watching returns. ''But we've spent the last eight years defying conventional wisdom.''
 Still, the margin seemed to startle Mr. Bloomberg's aides and the city's political establishment, which had predicted a blowout. Published polls in the days leading up to the election suggested that the mayor would win by as many as 18 percentage points; four years ago, he cruised to re-election with a 20 percent margin. 
 The billionaire mayor had poured $90 million of his own fortune into the race, a sum without equal in the history of municipal politics that gave him a 14-to-1 advantage in campaign spending.
 But the turnout appeared to be on track to be among the lowest in modern New York history as the mayor's vaunted campaign machinery failed to deliver the surge of supporters his aides had predicted.
 ''Everybody was shocked,'' a Bloomberg aide said.
 Mr. Bloomberg had based his third-term campaign largely on the argument that the city has been better run since he ushered in an era of corporate efficiency and nonpartisan leadership at City Hall. He also pointed to his accomplishments in education, crime reduction and public health. 
 But voters from Park Slope in Brooklyn to Morrisania in the Bronx seemed torn. 
 While they praised his competence and intelligence, many were put off by what they saw as Mr. Bloomberg's heavy-handed move to rewrite the law that would have limited him to two consecutive terms, saying it was obviously self-serving. The mayor had previously opposed any undoing of term limits, which voters had approved twice.
 ''The main reason I didn't vote for Bloomberg was the term limits,'' said Katherine Krase, a 34-year-old professor, voting at her local school in Park Slope.
 At the same school, Gerni Oster, 34, said: ''I think that Mayor Bloomberg is too egotistical and arrogant for me to vote for at this point.''
 Exit polls indicated that 45 percent of voters said that Mr. Bloomberg's handling of term limits was a factor in their decision not to vote for him, and roughly the same number said the mayor's spending on the race was an important factor. Nearly 7 of 10 approved of his job performance.
 Bill de Blasio and John C. Liu, both Democrats, were elected public advocate and comptroller, respectively.
 The results in the mayor's race are likely to be personally bruising to Mr. Bloomberg, a man of no small ego who told the public last fall that his financial acumen made him uniquely qualified to pull the city out of a deep economic funk.
 Already, Democrats seemed emboldened by the outcome.
 ''We learned tonight that people do not forget easily,'' said Representative Anthony D. Weiner, the Queens Democrat who considered, but then decided against, challenging the mayor. ''A lot of people, whether they said it to pollsters or not, were offended by the term limits fight.''
 And, addressing a crowd at the New York Hilton in Midtown, Mr. Thompson sounded like a man who was planning another campaign.
 ''The work we started during this campaign doesn't end tonight, in fact, it's just beginning,'' he said. 
 Even those who backed the mayor seemed to do so reluctantly.
 Stav Brinbaum, 37, a Web producer from Prospect Heights, Brooklyn, described his own vote for the mayor as ''unfortunate.''
 ''I feel he bought himself the election,'' Mr. Brinbaum said, and ''ran a smear campaign against a nonexistent opponent.'' But, he added, ''He's doing a really good job.''
 ''If there were somebody stronger running against him, I would have happily voted for them,'' said Paul Ranson, 56, a designer also from Prospect Heights. ''But there's not, so I unhappily voted for Bloomberg.'' 
 Mr. Bloomberg's campaign managers prided themselves on the their communications strategy, which flooded mailboxes, e-mail inboxes and television screens. 
 But for some on the receiving end, it was just too much. Ken Ficara, 40, a Web developer from the same neighborhood, remained undecided until the day before the election, when he received six automated telephone calls from the Bloomberg campaign. 
 He updated his Facebook page, writing: ''Mike, the more you call me, the less likely I am to vote for you.''
 Still, according to exit polls, Mr. Bloomberg tapped into his historic sources of strength: Staten Island and Queens backed him by comfortable margins, as did Jews, white Catholics and those earning more than $200,000.
 Mr. Thompson did best in the Bronx, and ran even with Mr. Bloomberg among voters aged 18 to 29.
 Though he drew 46 percent of the vote, residents expressed striking unfamiliarity with him, even after a yearlong campaign. 
 The son a prominent judge, and a product of the Brooklyn Democratic machine, Mr. Thompson seemed to run a conventional municipal campaign designed for a previous decade, and rarely radiated political hunger. Those who backed the mayor pointed to the qualities that first won them over eight years ago, as he moved from the financial services empire he founded, Bloomberg L.P., to elective office: independence from campaign donors and a no-nonsense management style.
 ''I thing he's doing a good job,'' Luke Geissbuhler, 39, a cinematographer in Prospect Heights in Brooklyn, said. ''It gives me great comfort that he's less prone to be corrupt by way of his wealth.''
 A little more than a year ago, the mayoral field was crowded with ambitious Democrats from City Hall to Congress. But once Mr. Bloomberg engineered the bid to overturn term limits, only Mr. Thompson remained, and for that act of political grit, he earned admiration, though not much public support, from the Democratic establishment. 
 Yet Mr. Thompson struggled to raise money, pulling in less than $6 million, and failed to communicate his central critique of the mayor: That Mr. Bloomberg had circumvented the will of the voters, who twice approved term limits, and ignored the welfare of working-class New Yorkers, favoring his wealthy friends and developers. 
 But Mr. Bloomberg was often more adept at framing the debate. He put Mr. Thompson on the defensive early on, challenging his record at the Board of Education and at the comptroller's office. But what some voters seemed to really remember from the campaign was his spending; the mayor poured some $15,000 an hour into the race in the final months.
 ''The Yankees buy pennants and we buy mayoralties,'' said Mr. Ficara, the Web developer from Prospect Heights.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 11, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article in some editions on Wednesday about Michael R. Bloomberg's narrow victory in the New York mayoral race referred incorrectly to a voter who said Mr. Bloomberg ''ran a smear campaign against a nonexistent opponent.'' The voter, Stav Brinbaum, is a woman. The article also misstated, in some copies, the age of a second voter, Gerni Oster, who called Mr. Bloomberg ''egotistical and arrogant,'' and misspelled, in some copies, the given name of a professor who said she voted for Mr. Bloomberg's Democratic rival. Ms. Oster is 32, not 34; the professor is Kathryn Krase, not Katherine.
An article in some editions last Wednesday about Michael R. Bloomberg's narrow victory in the New York mayoral race and a correction in this space on Friday misspelled the surname of a voter who said Mr. Bloomberg ''ran a smear campaign against a nonexistent opponent.'' She is Stav Birnbaum, not Brinbaum. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Democratic challenger for New York City mayor, William C. Thompson Jr., conceded defeat on Tuesday night. He came closer to victory than expected. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A22) CHARTS: MAJOR NEW YORK RACES
THE VOTE FOR MAYOR
 PROFILE OF NEW YORK VOTERS: Results of exit polls conducted Tuesday in the race for New York City mayor between Michael R. Bloomberg and William C. Thompson Jr. (Source: Edison Research) (pg.A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (92%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); TERM LIMITS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CITIES (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



134 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Protection for Investors

 BODY:
Another day, another test of Congress's will to reform the financial system. 
 The Investor Protection Act of 2009, which faces final votes on Wednesday in the House Financial Services Committee, would make much-needed changes to protect individual investors from fraud and manipulation. 
 It imposes a fiduciary standard on brokers who offer investment advice, requiring them to act in their clients' best interest. It also requires enhanced disclosure by brokers, financial planners and investment advisers of their obligations to their clients and calls for more financing for the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
 There was a long time when even those common-sense requirements couldn't make it past the industry's lobbyists. In the wake of the financial crisis, few members of the committee are likely to vote against them.
 The fight instead is over whether the bill should be amended to block the imposition of a post-Enron auditing requirement on small publicly traded companies -- defined as those with a market capitalization of less than $75 million. Incredibly, nearly eight years after Enron imploded and more than a year after the failures of deregulation nearly brought the entire financial system down, some members are still insisting that the audit requirement will impose undue burdens on small businesses. 
 Under the post-Enron law, all public companies must have procedures in place to prevent errors and fraud in the company's financial statements and have outside auditors assess the effectiveness of those internal controls. The S.E.C. long exempted small public companies from the audit requirement, but in September, it announced the exemption would end next June. 
 Small public companies are especially prone to fraud, in part because they have less oversight. Such audits are essential protection for investors. 
 Representatives Scott Garrett, a Republican of New Jersey, and John Adler, a Democrat of New Jersey, are, nevertheless, determined to permanently exempt small public companies -- there are about 6,000 of them -- from the audit requirement. If that amendment fails Mr. Garrett and Representative Carolyn Maloney, a Democrat of New York, have another that would delay implementation until 2011. Watching this fight play out, we despair whether corporate America or Congress have learned anything over the last year. We are even more disturbed by reports that the Obama administration is supporting the Garrett-Adler amendment. 
 If Congress and the White House won't get tough on accounting fraud at small public companies, how likely are they to take on tougher issues -- and more powerful constituencies -- when it comes to controlling the multitrillion-dollar derivatives market or downsizing too-big-to-fail firms? The committee should defeat these amendments and pass the Investor Protection Act. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUDITS (90%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ACCOUNTING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (72%)

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (76%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: SCOTT GARRETT (78%); CAROLYN MALONEY (58%); JOHN ADLER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



135 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1584 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Used Hidden Muscle to Try to Stop His Campaign Rivals at the Door

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
The White House switchboard lit up with calls from Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's emissaries several weeks ago with a message that was polite but firm: The mayor is going to win re-election, they said. We think the president should stay out of the race.
 Members of Mr. Bloomberg's inner circle were especially worried because they knew President Obama planned to visit the region to campaign with Gov. Jon S. Corzine of New Jersey, and he would face pressure to support the Democratic candidate, William C. Thompson Jr., the city's first black comptroller.
 At the request of the mayor's aides, Geoffrey Canada, chief executive of the Harlem Children's Zone, telephoned Valerie Jarrett, senior adviser to the president.
 ''I know she is close to the president and has his ear,'' said Mr. Canada, whose nonprofit group has received $600,000 in personal donations from Mr. Bloomberg. 
 A close adviser to the mayor, who stayed neutral in the presidential race, described the campaign's pitch to the White House this way: ''He didn't pick sides in your race. Don't pick sides in his.''
 The president's office agreed, and in early October alerted Bloomberg aides that it would offer only a halfhearted Friday afternoon endorsement for Mr. Thompson, and Mr. Obama did not campaign with him.
 In the race for mayor of New York City, there was one campaign on the surface. But there was a more dramatic effort, unfolding behind the scenes, that really mattered: ensuring, through money and muscle, that Mr. Bloomberg faced no serious obstacle to winning a third term.
 The critical moments were not widely watched debates or speeches, but triumphs celebrated privately inside the cavernous Midtown Manhattan headquarters of Bloomberg 2009: the elbowing out of Representative Anthony D. Weiner and the neutralizing of any powerful Democrat who could hurt the Bloomberg campaign.
 Underlying it all was a sophisticated strategy, and at times intimidating tactics, seemingly at odds with Mr. Bloomberg's image as a nonpolitician, that his aides sketched out during a marathon meeting in the fall of 2008. It was a surgical, at times even brutal approach, but it seemed oddly detached from the mood of electorate.
 This account is drawn from dozens of interviews with top aides, consultants and friends of both candidates, most of whom spoke on condition of anonymity in order to talk candidly without inflaming two powerful public officials. 
 In the days after the mayor had emerged, victorious, but badly bruised, from his fight to rewrite the city's term limits law, Mr. Bloomberg and his three top deputies, Edward Skyler, Patricia E. Harris and Kevin Sheekey, gathered in the Staten Island room in City Hall and began to plot his campaign.
 They warned him that it would be entirely different from his campaigns in 2001 and 2005. ''This will be really hard,'' one participant said. 
 Mr. Sheekey, the mayor's political guru, urged him to quickly send a warning to potential challengers. He suggested recruiting a high-profile attack dog for the campaign and disclosing it to the press. The choice was obvious: Howard Wolfson, the combative former communications director for Hillary Rodham Clinton's presidential run.
 Mr. Skyler suggested that the campaign be run by his best friend, Bradley Tusk, a former deputy to Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich of Illinois, who was leaving Lehman Brothers and eager to return to politics. Mr. Tusk spent weeks last fall helping Mr. Sheekey ram the term limits legislation through the City Council. 
 Mr. Sheekey pushed what he called the Powell Doctrine -- a burst of overwhelming force that would discourage anybody who was even thinking about taking on the mayor. 
 Mr. Tusk, extremely self-confident and forceful, talked about ''taking the oxygen out of the room'': hiring so many staff members, rolling out so many endorsements, and tossing up so many television ads that opposition seemed futile. 
 A sky-is-the-limit ethos, unfettered by spending limits, infused the effort. Mr. Tusk told his outreach coordinator for Asian voters, Oliver Tan, to find him a Bollywood star to endorse the mayor. After weeks of transcontinental phone calls, he did. 
 ''It was selling inevitability,'' a campaign adviser said. 
 In many ways, what the campaign was selling was a charade. Inside the campaign, pollsters and consultants fretted over surveys that showed New Yorkers angry over term limits, anguished over the economy and eager for change. Their data showed that Mr. Bloomberg's re-election numbers were alarmingly low for a two-term incumbent, a fact the campaign consistently sought to shield from outsiders, but which embarrassingly spilled into public view on Election Day. 
 Polls showed that Mr. Weiner, a scrappy, politically agile Brooklyn Democrat, posed the greatest threat. Not only could Mr. Weiner compete with the mayor for the white middle-class vote, he was undaunted by the mayor's power in a city where most politicians bow to him. 
 Mr. Tusk started to hold daily meetings about how to knock Mr. Weiner out of the race, unleashing a two-pronged attack: making on-the-record statements belittling his record and encouraging embarrassing articles in the New York dailies. Negative articles began appearing, the most colorful of which purported to show that Mr. Weiner had skipped votes in Congress to play hockey in Manhattan.
 Despite angry denunciations of what he called a smear campaign, the congressman slowly lost his will to take on the mayor. 
 On May 26 Mr. Weiner announced he would not run, and Mr. Tusk and Mr. Wolfson held a celebratory dinner at Peter Luger's, splitting an $85 porterhouse steak.
 The only obstacle remaining was Mr. Thompson. At Thompson campaign headquarters near Union Square, Mr. Bloomberg's display of political might over the summer -- he had spent $37 million by July 11 -- was having its desired effect. By August, Mr. Thompson's advertising team had stopped trying to track the mayor's television and radio spending, standard practice in a campaign, telling colleagues it was too depressing. Anne Fenton, Mr. Thompson's press secretary, told friends that she was intimidated by Mr. Wolfson.
 At times, the Bloomberg campaign, waging what they proudly saw as a presidential-level operation, seemed puzzled by the poorly financed, sometimes loosely disciplined Thompson effort. The candidate's daily schedule was curiously light, and easy opportunities to score political points were neglected. 
 Midway into the campaign, Mr. Thompson scheduled a publicity tour through a foreclosure-battered section of Queens, , setting off fears among Bloomberg advisers that the next day's papers would be filled with articles suggesting that Mr. Bloomberg had neglected New York City's neediest.
 Team Bloomberg swung into action, dispatching a group of researchers to dig up Mr. Thompson's ties to what they called an ''anti-union developer'' and $400,000 in campaign donations from real estate companies. They tapped out a 2,000-word e-mail message to the news media, titled ''Thompson's Rhetoric on Affordable Housing Doesn't Match His Record'' and prepared to hit the send button.
 But to their astonishment, the Thompson campaign attracted almost no press to the event. The e-mail message never went out.
 Mr. Tusk's high level of organization, and his demand for corporate-style accountability, earned him admiration and occasional resentment within the campaign. He kept meticulous checklists and spreadsheets on a dozen topics at a time, and sought daily, sometimes hourly, updates from staff members. 
 Over the summer, he ordered staff members to work until 8 every night. They were unhappy, and let him know it. He refused to back down, worried the large staff was becoming complacent. Yet the campaign rarely, if ever, missed an internal deadline, and it committed few serious missteps. 
 But its emphasis on symbolic, even frivolous gestures, like an endorsement from Matt Damon and the architect Maya Lin, had little impact on the outcome, and may have backfired with voters fretting over pocketbook issues. 
 Mr. Bloomberg, satisfied with the effort, focused on his mayoral duties and tried to avoid being drawn into the campaign back-and-forth, with one exception. Three weeks before the election, former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani made an appearance with Mr. Bloomberg before a group of Orthodox Jews in Brooklyn. 
 Whatever message they had hoped to convey was drowned out by Mr. Giuliani's speech, in which he suggested the city could not afford to return to the bad days before 1993, when the city's first black mayor reigned, adding, ''And you know exactly what I'm talking about.''
 Mr. Bloomberg, who had prided himself on lowering the city's racial temperature, was furious. The mayor's advisers recognized the statement could become a nightmare if Mr. Thompson's campaign exploited it deftly.
 Mr. Thompson's advisers pleaded with him to seize the opening.
 ''I talked to the Thompson campaign and said, 'This is the decisive moment, it may be the best opportunity to change the race,' '' a Democratic leader said.
 But Mr. Thompson refused to make a big fuss about the statement. He addressed it only in passing, relying on surrogates to take on the mayor. 
 The Bloomberg campaign braced itself. But the storm never came and his aides breathed a sigh of relief.
 What they could not have predicted was that Mr. Thompson would become a vehicle for a restive electorate to express four years of pent-up anger.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg heading to his polling place. Even the White House was not immune to his efforts
 President Obama gave William C. Thompson Jr. only a tepid endorsement. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TERM LIMITS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); EXECUTIVES (72%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); ANTHONY D WEINER (58%); JON CORZINE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



136 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: Iran's Leader Faults U.S. 'Arrogance' in Nuclear Talks

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH; Nazila Fathi contributed reporting from Toronto.

DATELINE: BEIRUT, Lebanon 

 BODY:
Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, lashed out at the United States in a speech on Tuesday, criticizing what he called an arrogant American attitude toward nuclear talks and saying the Obama administration had not followed through on its promises of change. 
 The speech came a day before an annual anti-American rally that could turn into a confrontation between the police and antigovernment protesters, who have vowed to take to the streets in force.
''The Islamic republic of Iran decided from the beginning not to prejudge and instead to consider the slogan of 'change,' '' said Ayatollah Khamenei in remarks to a group of students and teachers that were broadcast by the state-run Press TV. ''But what we have witnessed in practice during this period of time has been in contradiction with the remarks that have been made.''
 Ayatollah Khamenei also deplored the American attitude toward the draft nuclear deal hammered out last month, in which Iran would send its uranium abroad for processing. Iran has equivocated, and Western leaders appear to be losing patience. On Monday, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton urged Iran again to accept it and emphasized that the deal would not be altered.
 ''On the one hand, Americans talk of negotiations,'' Ayatollah Khamenei said. ''On the other hand, they continue to threaten and say the negotiations must have our desired results or we will take measures.''
 The speech's harsh tone may have been dictated in part by the timing: Wednesday is the 30th anniversary of the takeover of the American Embassy in Tehran in 1979, and a customary occasion for militant posturing in the streets.
 But some analysts said the speech also appeared to signal Ayatollah Khamenei's determination to reassert his authority in the face of internal threats such as June's disputed presidential election and a renewed terrorist threat near the Pakistani border.
 ''Khamenei needs enmity with the United States in order to blame Washington when, among other things, the Iranian population rises up, economic malaise worsens or terrorist attacks happen in places like Baluchistan,'' said Karim Sadjadpour, an Iran analyst at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.
 The speech coincided with renewed warnings from Iran's security establishment against opposition supporters planning to capitalize on the occasion to mount large protests. The head of Iran's riot police, Ali Reza Alipour, said his forces would use all their ''power and capacity'' against protesters.
 The semiofficial ISNA news agency ran several items about the Basij militia's plans to show up in force at the anti-American rally. The Basij militia was at the forefront of the violent crackdown on opposition protests throughout the summer. On Monday, Iran's elite Revolutionary Guards issued a statement saying only chants against America would be permitted on Wednesday, and that rallies would be allowed only outside the former United States Embassy.
 Still, opposition Web sites continued to call for a massive turnout to protest the disputed election and its violent aftermath. The main opposition movement Web site (www.mowjcamp.com) also reported that Mehdi Karroubi, the reformist cleric and opposition candidate who has become the government's most outspoken critic, will be attending the protests. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (86%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (85%); IRANIAN ELECTION PROTESTS (79%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (79%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (76%); RIOTS (76%); ELECTIONS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); TERRORISM (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); ANNIVERSARIES (64%); RELIGION (56%)

PERSON: ALI KHAMENEI (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (77%); BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (59%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); LEBANON (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAN (59%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



137 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: No Walk in the Park: For Obama One Year Later, It's the Slog of Governance

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
For a president elevated to power on the back of history, the tears and euphoria of Grant Park feel like a thousand years ago. It has been just one year, of course, since Barack Obama's election, a year since that moment when supporters felt everything was possible amid lofty talk of ''remaking this nation'' and determined chants of ''Yes, we can.''
 A year later, as a few smaller elections yielded a more critical judgment, the hope and hubris have given way to the daily grind of governance, the jammed meeting schedule waiting in the morning, the thick briefing books waiting at night, the thousand little compromises that come in between. The education of a president is complicated, and as Mr. Obama has spent the last 12 months learning more about wielding power, his country has learned more about him.
 Given the enormousness of the crises he inherited and the scope of the economic package he pushed through in his early weeks in office, it might seem odd to suggest that the hardest and most defining choices are only now confronting Mr. Obama. 
 But as he reaches the endgame in his campaign to remake the health care system and determines whether to escalate the war in Afghanistan, he will have to decide how much he is willing to lead, how much of the political capital earned in Grant Park he will expend to push a nation outside of its comfort zone.
 The tough calls could help fill in the emerging picture of just what kind of president Mr. Obama has become. So far, it is safe to say he is an activist with an appetite for transformative ideas even as he avoids defining them, or himself, too sharply. 
 He is a study in dichotomy, bold yet cautious, radical yet pragmatic, all depending on whose prism you use. He has discovered that the oratory that proved so powerful on the campaign trail does not as easily move votes on Capitol Hill or stir souls in the Kremlin. His faith in his ability to bring people together has foundered in a polarized capital, as has his interest in trying.
 After tackling the deepest recession in generations, Mr. Obama now presides over an economy finally growing again but still bleeding jobs and piling on debt. He looks likely to get a health care program through, an achievement that has eluded presidents for decades, and yet none of the options for Afghanistan offer any guarantee of success. Then, beyond those issues loom Iran, climate change, Guantanamo Bay, immigration and financial regulations, among others.
 ''The central question that emerges after these months is can he make it all work?'' said Lee H. Hamilton, a former Democratic congressman who in recent years helped lead commissions on the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and the Iraq war.
 ''These problems look simpler when you're talking to an audience like that'' in Grant Park in Chicago, Mr. Hamilton said. ''But they're much harder than that. I think he's learned that governing is harder than campaigning, and I think he's learned it with a vengeance.''
 In the White House, the wistfulness for the simpler days is palpable. ''The day was just suffused with emotion and hope and warmth,'' David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's senior adviser, recalled about Election Day last year. ''But it is an emotional peak that you can't maintain day to day as you do the business of government. The challenge is to maintain that degree of idealism and optimism as you work through the meat grinder.
 ''Everything about the politics of Washington works against hope and optimism and unity. So you have to push against that every day, understanding that it's going to be an imperfect end result.'' He added: ''That night was sublime. And much of what goes on in Washington is prosaic. Or profane.''
 In the process, the romanticized, Hollywood-buffed image of Mr. Obama, captured in the HBO movie ''By the People'' that premiered Tuesday night, has given way to a more conventional picture, of a politician who inspires and disappoints, energizes and irritates. The promise of a different way of doing business has at times looked to many like politics as usual.
 ''He continues to be a very smart, energetic, charismatic figure that the American people like,'' said Representative Jeb Hensarling of Texas, a leading Republican lawmaker. ''Clearly I don't think he inhabits the lofty pedestal he occupied before the election. People are looking at this and thinking, 'If we voted for change, this isn't the change we wanted, or this is too much change.' ''
 Or not enough, depending on the view. ''If it's all give and no take, it begins to wear on you,'' said Representative Raul M. Grijalva of Arizona, a leader among liberal Democrats who think Mr. Obama has been too eager to compromise. ''Some of the base has begun saying maybe the expectations are too high; maybe this is a first-term agenda. But the base is starting to say, Where are we?''
 Little frustrates advisers to Mr. Obama more. They point to a series of mostly quick but largely overlooked victories that advanced Democratic priorities stalled for more than a decade: on children's health care, tobacco regulation, hate-crimes penalties and pay equity, to name a few. 
 At the same time, they set the goal of passing legislation on not just health care but also on climate change and the financial industry by the end of the year over warnings that they were pushing too much, too fast -- a goal that everyone agrees is now out of reach.
 ''They've seen that Congress can't digest everything they want to do,'' said Steven A. Elmendorf, a lobbyist who was the top aide to former Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri when he ran the House Democratic caucus. ''The political system can't take it. Health care has proven to be bigger and tougher than they thought. It has taken most of the oxygen in the room. You can't do everything.''
 Mr. Obama has rethought not just strategy but substance. As a candidate, he supported renegotiating the free trade agreement with Mexico and Canada, opposed a legal requirement that individual Americans have health insurance and promised to bolster the war effort in Afghanistan. As president, he has left the trade pact alone, embraced a health insurance mandate and after an initial reinforcement to Afghanistan is now rethinking his whole strategy there.
 For the moment, at least, he has also largely abandoned the promise of postpartisan bridge building after running into early and unified Republican opposition to his spending plans. It was an idea that his more seasoned Washington advisers, like Rahm Emanuel and John D. Podesta, never held out much hope for but went along with until the president figured out for himself that Washington is too divided.
 In the end, naturally, every president has to learn for himself. ''You're never prepared to be the president of the United States until you're actually president,'' said Valerie Jarrett, a senior adviser to Mr. Obama. 
 William A. Galston, a former White House adviser to President Bill Clinton, said Mr. Obama had yet to define his identity in a vivid way. 
 ''He likes big goals more than bright lines,'' said Mr. Galston, who is now at the Brookings Institution. But, he said: ''The question of who he is is still very much up for grabs. He genuinely wants to be a transformative president. He doesn't think he was elected to do small things. Some things may end up being small, but it won't start out that way.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Grant Park in Chicago on election night 2008, there was a feeling that anything was possible.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Some White House aides are wistful for the days right after Mr. Obama, shown last month, won.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); IRAQ WAR (70%); HEALTH CARE (66%); BANKING & FINANCE (65%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%); CUBA (51%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



138 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Buffett Bets Big That Railroads Have a Future

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED and ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
America's best-known investor, Warren E. Buffett, is making his biggest bet yet on the nation's economic future by buying, of all things, a railroad.
 After deftly capitalizing on the financial crisis with a series of bold deals, Mr. Buffett on Tuesday agreed to buy the 131-year-old Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation. 
 A railroad might strike many people as a bit old-fashioned -- more 19th century than 21st. But Mr. Buffett is wagering that as the economy revives, so will the demand for goods to be shipped by train. Burlington Northern carries coal and timber from the West, grain from the Midwest and imports arriving directly from Mexico and Canada, as well as through California ports. 
 And railroads, Mr. Buffett contends, are transportation for a fossil fuel-challenged future, since trains are generally more efficient and greener than trucks. 
 But for Mr. Buffett, the deal is also the fulfillment of a dream denied in childhood.
 ''This is all happening because my father didn't buy me a train set as a kid,'' Mr. Buffett joked in an interview.
 His new toy will not come cheap. Berkshire Hathaway, the conglomerate he runs, will spend roughly $26 billion for the 77.4 percent of the railroad that it does not already own, paying $100 a share in cash and stock. As part of the bid, Mr. Buffett is splitting Berkshire's class B shares 50-for-1 to pay Burlington Northern shareholders, breaking his rule of never splitting Berkshire's stock. The split increases the total number of class B shares while avoiding fractional stock ownership for Burlington Northern shareholders. 
 ''I stretched on this one,'' he said in an interview. ''I went to the last nickel.''
 Burlington Northern investors responded wildly to the news, pushing the company's stock price up nearly 28 percent to $97 a share. While other transportation stocks also gained, the deal did not light a fire under the broader stock market. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 17.53 to 9,771.91.
 Buying Burlington Northern is of a piece with the investments Mr. Buffett has made over the past year. He has positioned himself to profit from the mayhem in the markets and secure a legacy as one of the greatest investors of all time. While others were running scared last fall, Mr. Buffett invested billions in Goldman Sachs -- and reached a far richer deal than Washington. He staked billions more in other blue-chip companies like General Electric and Wrigley.
 The acquisition of Burlington Northern, based in Fort Worth, most likely concludes the investor's search for an ''elephant'' acquisition, which he first described in one of his famed letters to Berkshire investors two years ago. His last major deal was in late 2007, when he agreed to buy a majority stake in Marmon Holdings, the conglomerate controlled by the Pritzker family.
 ''From my standpoint, it's a lot easier to make a $32 billion investment than 10 $3 billion investments,'' he said.
 Even as the credit markets have improved and banks have become less skittish about lending, few companies can muster Mr. Buffett's financial firepower. Berkshire will borrow $8 billion to supplement $8 billion in cash from its books, paying off the debt in three annual installments.
 Investors big and small hang on Mr. Buffett's pronouncements, and with good reason: if you had invested $1,000 in the stock of Berkshire in 1965, you would have amassed millions of dollars by 2007. He bases his philosophy on stable, reliable investments. ''We'll make a good return, not a great return,'' he said of the Burlington Northern deal.
 Mr. Buffett heeded his own rules of investing in making his latest acquisition. 
 One is to invest in companies that you understand. For Mr. Buffett, Burlington Northern fits the bill. He first bought a stake in the company in 2006, adding to shares held in two other railroad operators, Union Pacific and Norfolk Southern. Burlington Northern emerged as his choice, and he eventually built up a stake of 76 million shares in the company.
 Another of his rules is to buy quality products at bargain prices. Burlington Northern's stock price has stayed nearly flat over the past year, as its cargo load fell alongside the economy as a whole. 
 A third maxim is to move quickly -- and Mr. Buffett did. On Oct. 22, Mr. Buffett arrived in Fort Worth as part of a visit to Berkshire's portfolio companies. There, he met with Matthew K. Rose, the chairman and chief executive of Burlington Northern, who practiced an investor presentation with him. 
 Before he left, Mr. Buffett turned to Mr. Rose and said, ''If you ever want a good home for Burlington, think of Berkshire.'' Later, he spoke with Charles T. Munger, his trusted lieutenant at Berkshire, and began discussing a price for Burlington Northern.
 The next night, Mr. Rose dropped by Mr. Buffett's hotel, and within 15 minutes, the billionaire had delivered his bid. ''There wasn't much to say,'' Mr. Buffett recalled on Tuesday. 
 By Sunday, Burlington Northern had retained advisers at Goldman Sachs and the boutique investment bank Evercore Partners, and the two sides began negotiating. Few issues emerged, other than Burlington Northern's desire for a stock component to the bid, to allow its shareholders to choose a tax-free alternative to cash. By Thursday, lawyers from Munger, Tolles & Olson for Berkshire and from Cravath, Swaine & Moore for Burlington Northern began drafting deal documents. 
 Mr. Buffett said his goal was to have the deal sealed by Sunday at noon, when he was scheduled to have a root canal. 
 ''I wanted to go into that with a mind that was at ease,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Burlington Northern Santa Fe locomotive in Seattle. The company is based in Fort Worth. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN P. CASEY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (77%); TRAINS (77%); INTERVIEWS (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); STOCK INDEXES (65%); PRICE INCREASES (64%)

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (90%); BURLINGTON NORTHERN SANTA FE CORP (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (50%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (90%); BRK.A (NYSE) (90%); GS (NYSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (50%); GEC (LSE) (50%); GE (SWX) (50%); GE (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (90%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (90%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (84%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009



139 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; WE THE PATIENTS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 209 words

HEADLINE: Insurance Out of Reach

BYLINE: By KAREN BARROW

 BODY:
In times of economic hardship, small businesses are among the first to feel the effects. As income declines and costs for employee coverage rise, health insurance is often one of the first expenses to be cut. In an audio slideshow on the Prescriptions blog, a business owner, Zoraida Reyes, tells her story. 
 Ms. Reyes, 48, owns a check-cashing business in Bridgeport, Conn. She has never been able to afford to offer health insurance to her few employees. Recently, she and her husband dropped their own insurance policy. 
 Ms. Reyes was paying $800 a month last year in premiums for a high-deductible health insurance plan. ''With the economy being affected the way it has been,'' she said, ''I've had to cut down on my expenses. And one of the things that had to go was health insurance.''
 Ms. Reyes still goes to the doctor when she must, but now she pays out of pocket for tests and medications. 
 ''I find that it's cheaper,'' she said. Still, Ms. Reyes worries about what would happen should she or her husband become seriously ill. Like many small-business owners, she prays the economy will improve.
 ''I work six days a week, and I can't afford insurance,'' she said. ''So you can imagine the people that have a lot less than me.'' 
 KAREN BARROW 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (71%) CONNECTICUT, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



140 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: 11th Cleveland Victim Confirmed and First Is Identified

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER MAAG

DATELINE: CLEVELAND 

 BODY:
The number of women found dead in the home of a convicted sex offender here rose to 11 on Wednesday, and the police announced their first identification of one of the victims. 
 The victim, Tonia Carmichael, was 52 when she disappeared last November, the police said. She lived in Warrensville Heights, a Cleveland suburb, but her car was found about a mile from the Imperial Avenue home of the sex offender, Anthony Sowell, the police said.
 Ms. Carmichael's mother, Donnita Carmichael, told The Cleveland Plain Dealer: ''We expected the worst when these bodies starting popping up. We knew she could be one of them.'' 
 The remains were buried in Mr. Sowell's backyard, the police said, and it appeared that Ms. Carmichael had been strangled.
 Lt. Thomas Stacho, a police spokesman, said the coroner's office had determined that a skull found in a bucket in the basement of Mr. Sowell's home belonged to an 11th victim, not to one of 10 other women whose bodies had been found.
 In his initial court appearance, Mr. Sowell was denied bond on Wednesday. He faces five murder charges and one charge of rape, with more charges likely, the police said. 
 ''After 26 years on this bench, this is by far the most serious set of allegations I've ever faced,'' Ronald B. Adrine, a municipal court judge, said as he bound the case over to a county grand jury.
 Mr. Sowell, 50, is likely to be charged with capital murder and could face the death penalty, an assistant county prosecutor, Brian P. Murphy, said in court. 
 ''The state believes he is an incredibly dangerous threat to the public,'' Mr. Murphy said in his request that Mr. Sowell be held in jail without bond.
 Asked to describe the scene inside Mr. Sowell's house, Deputy Police Chief Edward Tomba said, ''I've spent 24 years in law enforcement, and I've never seen anything like it.''
 Mr. Sowell shuffled into the courtroom in handcuffs. He was wearing a dark blue zippered jumpsuit and was surrounded by seven police officers and bailiffs. Judge Adrine asked if he wished to waive his right to an examination hearing.
 ''That's correct, sir,'' Mr. Sowell said in a whisper, bending forward at the waist.
 Kathleen S. DeMetz of the county public defender's office requested that Mr. Sowell be listed as a psychological and medical case; Mr. Sowell has a pacemaker and requires regular heart medication. He held a job until two years ago, when he was laid off and began receiving unemployment benefits, Ms. DeMetz said. 
 Concerned that they might find more bodies, police officers and sheriff's deputies planned to search unsecured abandoned houses within a half-mile radius of Mr. Sowell's house, Chief Tomba said. 
 There have been foreclosures in the neighborhood and many homes stand empty and are boarded up.
 The police have parked a mobile command unit near Mr. Sowell's house and are asking residents to provide information about Mr. Sowell or anyone they know in the neighborhood who may be missing. Chief Tomba said ''about half a dozen'' people had come forward.
 Mr. Sowell was convicted of rape in 1990 and spent 15 years in prison, according to Cuyahoga County court records. The state parole board had repeatedly refused to release him early. 
 Since Mr. Sowell's return to Cleveland, two women have filed police reports accusing him of rape or attempted rape, records show. 
 Another resident accused Mr. Sowell of armed robbery in 2007, but it was not clear from police or court records whether charges had been filed in the case. 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 6, 2009

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Thursday about the identification of one of the 11 bodies found in a Cleveland home misstated the relationship between the victim and a woman who said, ''We expected the worst when these bodies started popping up.'' The woman, Donnita Carmichael, is the victim's daughter, not her mother.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Investigating a rape, the Cleveland police found bodies on Friday in a search of the home of Anthony Sowell, who was arrested. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN KUNTZ/THE PLAIN DEALER, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Mr. Sowell, right, in court on Wednesday with a public defender, Kathleen DeMetz. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK DUNCAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); WOMEN (90%); MURDER (89%); CAPITAL CRIMES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (87%); POLICE FORCES (78%); SHERIFFS (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); JUDGES (78%); BAIL (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (73%); GRAND JURY (71%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (69%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%)

ORGANIZATION: POLICE FOUNDATION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%) OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



141 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 212 words

HEADLINE: Helping Older Americans: The View From AARP

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''A Drop in the Wrong Bucket,'' by David Leonhardt (Economic Scene column, Business Day, Oct. 28): 
 AARP disagrees that relief for older Americans who are dealing with dramatic declines in jobs and home values, unprecedented losses in retirement accounts and rising health care costs is ''a drop in the wrong bucket.'' The announcement of no cost-of-living adjustment next year is just one more piece of bad news. 
 It is misleading to imply that older Americans as a group have ''survived the recession better than most.'' Older adults want to remain in the work force in larger numbers than ever before to increase their retirement security, but the unemployment rate for older workers is the highest in decades. If they lose their jobs, they face a longer time out of work than any other group. 
 In addition, older workers and retirees have about 60 percent of their retirement savings in stocks, which have lost 25 percent or more in value at a time when they rely on these savings for daily expenses. 
 AARP will continue to work with members of Congress from both sides of the aisle who have sponsored legislation to offer relief for older Americans who rely on Social Security.
 Tom Nelson Chief Operating Officer, AARP Washington, Oct. 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (91%); OLDER WORKERS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COST OF LIVING (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HOME PRICES (72%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (65%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



142 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1557 words

HEADLINE: Building With Whole Trees

BYLINE: By ANNE RAVER

DATELINE: STODDARD, Wis. 

 BODY:
 ROALD GUNDERSEN, an architect who may revolutionize the building industry, shinnied up a slender white ash near his house here on a recent afternoon, hoisting himself higher and higher until the limber trunk began to bend slowly toward the forest floor. 
 ''Look at Papa!'' his life and business partner, Amelia Baxter, 31, called to their 3-year-old daughter, Estella, who was crouching in the leaves, reaching for a mushroom. Their son, Cameron, 9 months, was nestled in a sling across Ms. Baxter's chest.
 Wild mushrooms and watercress are among the treasures of this 134-acre forest, but its greatest resource is its small-diameter trees -- thousands like the one Mr. Gundersen, 49, was hugging like a monkey.
 ''Whooh!'' he said, jumping to the ground and gingerly rubbing his back. ''This isn't as easy as it used to be. But see how the tree holds the memory of the weight?'' 
 The ash, no more than five inches thick, was still bent toward the ground. Mr. Gundersen will continue to work on it, bending and pruning it over the next few years in this forest which lies about 10 miles east of the Mississippi River and 150 miles northwest of Madison. 
 Loggers pass over such trees because they are too small to mill, but this forester-architect, who founded Gundersen Design in 1991 and built his first house here two years later, has made a career of working with them. 
 ''Curves are stronger than straight lines,'' he explained. ''A single arch supporting a roof can laterally brace the building in all directions.''
 The firm, recently renamed Whole Tree Architecture and Construction, is also owned by Ms. Baxter, a onetime urban farmer and community organizer with a knack for administration and fundraising. She also manages a community forest project modeled after a community-supported agriculture project, in which paying members harvest sustainable riches like mushrooms, firewood and watercress from these woods, and those who want to build a house can select from about 1,000 trees, inventoried according to species, size and shape, and located with global positioning system coordinates, a living inventory that was paid for with a $150,000 grant from the United States Department of Agriculture. 
 According to research by the Forest Products Laboratory in Madison, run by the USDA, a whole, unmilled tree can support 50 percent more weight than the largest piece of lumber milled from the same tree. So Mr. Gundersen uses small-diameter trees as rafters and framing in his airy structures, and big trees felled by wind, disease or insects as powerful columns and curving beams. 
 Taking small trees from a crowded stand in the forest is much like thinning carrots in a row: the remaining plants get more light, air and nutrients. Carrots grow longer and straighter; trees get bigger and healthier.
 And when the trees are left whole, they sequester carbon. ''For every ton of wood, a ton and a half of carbon dioxide is locked up,'' he said, whereas producing a ton of steel releases two to five tons of carbon. So the more whole wood is used in place of steel, the less carbon is pumped into the air.
 These passive solar structures also need very little or no supplemental heat.
 Tom Spaulding, the executive director of Angelic Organics Learning Center, near Rockford, Ill., northwest of Chicago, knows about this because he commissioned Mr. Gundersen to build a 1,600-square-foot training center in 2003. He said: ''In the middle of winter, on a 20-below day, we're in shorts, with the windows and doors open. And we don't burn a bit of petroleum.''
 ''It's eminently more frugal and sustainable than milling trees,'' he added. ''These are weed trees, so when you take them out, you improve the forest stand and get a building out of it. You haven't stripped an entire hillside out west to build it, or used a lot of oil to transport the lumber.''
 Mr. Gundersen had a rough feeling for all of this 16 years ago, when he started building a simple A-frame house here for his first wife and their son, Ian, now 15. He wanted to encourage local farmers to use materials like wood and straw from their own farms to build low-cost, energy-efficient structures. So he used small aspens that were crowding out young oaks nearby.
 ''I would just carry them home and peel them,'' said Mr. Gundersen, who later realized he could peel them while they were standing, making them ''a lot lighter to haul and not so dangerous to fell.''
 Mr. Gundersen, who built most of the house singlehandedly, also recognized the beauty of large trees downed by disease or wind, and used the peeled trunks, shorn of their central branches a few feet from the crook, as supporting columns in the house. ''I thought they were beautiful, but I didn't think how strong they were,'' he said.
 ''In architecture, how materials come together and how they are connected is really the god in the details,'' he continued. ''The connection is where things will fall apart,'' he said, adding that the crook of a tree ''has been time-tested by environmental conditions for 200 million years.'' 
 He refers to that first house -- which cost $15,000 (for plumbing, electrical, septic and other basic amenities, as well as $4,000 in paid labor) and a year of his own labor -- as his master's degree in architecture. Divorced in 1997, he now lives there with Ms. Baxter and their two children.
 After finishing the A-frame, Mr. Gundersen built a 100-by-20-foot solar greenhouse next door with thick straw-bale walls on three sides, banked into the north slope. He used small-diameter, rot-resistant black locust trees for the timber framing.
 A wall of double-paned glass, positioned to optimize the low-angle winter light, faces south. Growing beds angled slightly toward the sun are planted with rows of mustard greens, kale, chard, arugula, lettuces and herbs. Hanging trays of micro-greens and a fig and bay tree promise fresh food for the fall and winter. 
 But it is the Book End -- the little house attached to the greenhouse, which is home to the firm's project manager and his wife -- that quietly vibrates with the spirit of the forest.
 ''We used a lot of standing dead elm here,'' Mr. Gundersen said, pointing out the delicate trails, or galleries, left by the beetles that killed the tree. Peeled of their bark and satiny smooth, these trees have a presence that seems to draw one's arm around their trunks and invite a viewer to lean into them, to soak up strength from these powerful old souls.
 In this quiet farming community, where people may not have a lot of money to spend, but do have plenty of wood and straw, word of the beauty and practicality of Mr. Gundersen's structures has spread. Solar greenhouses made of local materials can extend the growing season through winter, even in a place where temperatures can drop to 30 or 40 below. In the last 18 years, Whole Trees has built 25 of them here.
 It's part of a vision Mr. Gundersen developed after spending three years as a project architect on Biosphere 2, the three-acre glass-enclosed miniature world constructed near Tucson in the 1980s, which tried to replicate the earth's systems, but foundered on carbon dioxide, acidic seas, failed crops and internal intrigues. After that experience, he wanted to build something more basic to human needs.
 Mr. Gundersen grew up in nearby LaCrosse, where his Norwegian great-grandfather, a doctor, founded a local institution, the Gundersen Clinic; he comes from a clan of doctors and tree lovers. ''There are 23 doctors in the family,'' he said, including his father and uncle and four great-uncles, but he seems to be wired more like his great-grandmother Helga, whose family still owns a tree farm in Norway. He and his grandmother would often picnic on this piece of wild land, where he remembers picking watercress and wildflowers and building tree forts.
 Now, to be in his buildings is to be among the trees.
 ''It almost feels like we're in a forest, the trees have such a presence,'' said Marcia Halligan, a client who is a farmer and Reiki instructor, standing among the birch posts of her airy bedroom.
 She and her partner, Steven Adams, who grows seed for organic seed companies, worked with Mr. Gundersen on a design that uses 22 different kinds of wood, most of it from their own land outside Viroqua, southeast of Stoddard.
 The economic downturn has put commissions for several large buildings for nonprofits and a 4,600-square-foot residence on hold, Mr. Gundersen and Ms. Baxter say, but the demand for small houses like theirs is up.
 ''It's remarkable how many people have called this last year asking for 1,000-square-foot houses,'' Ms. Baxter said. ''People are downsizing for their retirement homes, and even younger folks are thinking about energy costs, environmental awareness and simplicity.''
 Whole Trees can keep construction costs as low as $100 a square foot, not including site preparation, if the client is willing to shop for secondhand fixtures and the like.
 As people begin to see forests as a resource, they may begin to take care of them rather than cutting them down to make room for cornfields or pastures. And the forests keep giving back.
 ''I've taken 20 trees per year off one acre, for 12 buildings,'' Mr. Gundersen said. ''You can never tell that we've taken out that much wood.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NATURE GIRL: Roald Gundersen's daughter, Estella, climbs down from a loft built of whole trees. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL KELLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D1)
 INTO THE WOODS: Roald Gundersen, far left, built his home and greenhouse, top and above, using whole trees for structure and support, after first pruning and bending them, center. The small house attached to the greenhouse, left,was constructed out of elm and ash trees. (PHOTOGRAPHS AND PHOTOMONTAGE, TOP, BY PAUL KELLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORESTRY & LOGGING (89%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (85%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (77%); FUNDRAISING (69%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (61%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI RIVER (55%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



143 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: Senate Approves a New Extension of Jobless Benefits

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Senate voted unanimously Wednesday to offer up to 20 more weeks of unemployment benefits to those who have been out of work a long time, after weeks of delay in which hundreds of thousands of Americans exhausted their government aid. 
 The measure will increase to 99 weeks, or nearly two years, the maximum length of time that a jobless worker can get benefits in some states. 
 As early as Thursday, the House is expected to approve the Senate version, which differs from the measure it passed six weeks ago, so the legislation can be signed into law by President Obama.
 The Democrats feel an urgency to act now because the monthly labor report that comes out Friday is expected to show that the nation's unemployment rate in October continued to be at or above 10 percent. Also, more than 600,000 workers had run out of benefits at the end of October, according to the National Employment Law Project, a liberal advocacy group. 
 The Senate added two unrelated provisions to extend and liberalize tax breaks that were in this year's $787 billion economic stimulus package.
 One would continue for five months a popular $8,000 credit for many first-time home buyers, which was to expire Nov. 30, and create a $6,500 credit for some homeowners who want to buy a new residence. The other would allow businesses to deduct losses from their income in five profitable years instead of two; the stimulus law had limited the break to small businesses.
 The Senate's 98-to-0 vote disguised the partisan divisiveness of past weeks. After Democrats settled their internal differences a month ago, Republicans objected to acting until Democrats allowed votes on amendments opposing illegal immigration, the liberal organization Acorn and the financial rescue program. The Democrats refused, saying that Republicans were trying to score political points.
 By this week, pressure to act was building from states with double-digit unemployment rates. One Republican senator, George V. Voinovich of Ohio, suggested impatience with his colleagues' demands. 
 ''This is serious business, and we ought to get on with it,'' Mr. Voinovich said in an interview. ''We've got to keep these families together so they don't fall through the cracks. I mean, this is what keeps them going so they get through this period.''
 On Wednesday, the Senate voted to end the filibuster, 97 to 1. The holdout was Senator Jim DeMint, a Republican from South Carolina, which has the nation's fifth-highest unemployment rate, 11.6 percent. Hours later, he joined supporters on the vote to pass the bill.
 A spokesman for Mr. DeMint, Wesley Denton, said, ''He's disappointed it is being paid for by increasing burdens on small businesses that create jobs instead of using unspent stimulus funds.''
 The tax provision that would offset the $2.4 billion cost of the extra benefits so they do not add to the budget deficit is a longstanding one. The bill would extend a 33-year-old surcharge on the tax that employers pay to finance unemployment compensation. First imposed in 1976 as a temporary levy, the surcharge has been $14 a worker since 1983.
 The Senate bill would extend benefits by 14 weeks nationwide for those whose relief has run out, and up to 20 weeks in states -- 26 currently -- where the unemployment rate is over 8.5 percent. 
 The House-passed bill would limit the extended benefits to those states with the highest joblessness but Senate Democrats in other states pushed for a nationwide extension. The effort for the nationwide extension was led by Senator Jeanne Shaheen of New Hampshire, where the unemployment rate is 7.2 percent.
 The nation's unemployment compensation system is a patchwork of state programs; federal benefits are available when state aid runs out, typically after 26 weeks. Reflecting the severity of the recession, the number of workers who have been out of a job longer than that comprise about a third of the total unemployed -- the highest share since data collection began in 1948, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal policy group.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); FILIBUSTER (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); POLITICS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (75%); TAX LAW (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); TAX INCENTIVES (72%); TAX RELIEF (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); IMMIGRATION (50%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%)

PERSON: JIM DEMINT (58%); GEORGE VOINOVICH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



144 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: Some Wall Street Year-End Bonuses Could Hit Pre-Downturn Highs

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Now is the time of year when a Wall Streeter's fancy turns, not so lightly, to thoughts of bonuses. 
 Inside major financial companies, the annual rite of tallying bonuses is about to begin, with a sense of relief and even elation that would have been unthinkable only a year ago. After all those federal bailouts, many banks are turning handsome profits. Top producers are looking forward to blowout paydays once again. 
 In financial circles, the question on everyone's mind is this: Just how big will this payday be? 
 The answer, it seems, is extremely big -- perhaps the biggest industrywide since 2007, at the height of the bubble, according to a study released on Wednesday by the pay consultant Johnson Associates.
 The annual report, a closely watched signpost for the bonus season, projected that the financial industry payouts would be up 40 percent from 2008, when they plunged in the midst of the financial crisis. In 2008, Wall Street handed out nearly $20 billion in cash awards and billions more in stock and other incentives to employees based in New York. 
 What is most remarkable about the estimate, compiled by Johnson Associates, is how quickly pay is expected to rebound for traders -- Wall Street's current kings and queens of ka-ching. 
 For people who trade bonds, commodities and currencies, bonuses are expected to soar as much as 60 percent, to around their pre-crisis levels. A typical senior fixed-income trader can expect a total pay package of about $930,000 in cash and stock, compared with a package last year of about $695,000. Paychecks for stock and derivatives traders are likely to jump by half that much. Bonuses for investment bankers, by contrast, are projected to rise 15 to 20 percent. Star performers could see their paychecks surge even higher.
 Whatever the actual numbers, the bonuses -- most of which will be calculated between now and the end of the year and paid out in early 2009 -- are bound to be controversial given the hard economic times many Americans are facing and the resentment directed at the financial industry. 
 The Obama administration's special pay master, Kenneth R. Feinberg, has restricted pay at the seven companies that received extraordinary government support, but most of the industry is outside his purview. Big banks are grappling with changes to their bonus systems, which regulators claim may have encouraged employees to take excessive risks. Many banks are planning to increase the percentage of bonuses paid in the form of stock or options. 
 ''It's going to be a political and optical problem for the banks,'' said Michael S. Melbinger, an executive compensation lawyer at Winston & Strawn. 
 But while the economic fortunes of Wall Street and Main Street have diverged, so too have the fortunes of certain employees within the financial industry. This will be an unusually lopsided year for bonuses. While traders are looking forward to fat bonuses, payouts for people working in asset management, corporate and retail banking and the insurance businesses are expected to be flat or even down, according to the study. 
 Given the decline in the once-booming mergers and acquisition business, bonuses for certain dealmakers could fall 10 to 15 percent. And the once-gilded paychecks of hedge fund managers are expected to decline 15 to 25 percent. Private equity executives will be among the hardest hit, with their year-end bonuses falling 20 to 25 percent as they struggle to sell many of their investments. 
 ''This is a year of two different worlds,'' said Alan Johnson, of Johnson Associates. ''It's not a broad-based recovery.''
 The firm's study by no means provides a complete view of bonuses. For example, it did not examine specific dollar amounts for individual employees; instead, it looked at the projected increase to the bonus pool for several different financial businesses. In addition, it looked only at year-end bonuses and long-term stock awards, leaving aside large salary increases and option grants that several big banks made earlier this year. ''Main Street is ticked off that Wall Street is making all this money,'' said Joseph E. Bachelder, a compensation lawyer. 
 Still, after traumas of the last year exposed how poorly many banks managed their risks, many Americans might be relieved to know that experienced risk managers are a hot commodity on Wall Street. For them, according to the Johnson study, annual bonuses are expected to rise 40 percent this year. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: IN THE MONEY AGAIN: Wall Street pay is expected to rebound strongly this year. (Source: Johnson Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (74%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (73%); BONDS (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); INVESTMENT BANKING (71%); LAWYERS (70%); BOND MARKETS (66%)

COMPANY: WINSTON & STRAWN LLP (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541199 ALL OTHER LEGAL SERVICES (50%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (50%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



145 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: Resignations Point to New Woes for Players Union

BYLINE: By JEFF Z. KLEIN

 BODY:
The N.H.L. Players Association is facing an uncertain future after another round of upheaval with the resignation of its interim director, outside counsel and six-member advisory board. 
 At the center of the resignations were accusations that the union was being ''hijacked'' by a four-member panel of veteran players appointed in mid-October to investigate the August firing of Paul Kelly, the former union chief, and to review the union's constitution and operations.
 It's the latest episode of turmoil for a union with a tumultuous history, and it comes on the threshold of critical negotiations with the league over a new collective bargaining agreement. 
 The current agreement, which is set to expire at the end of next season, was forged in the aftermath of the lockout that canceled the 2004-5 season. A new agreement could prove crucial to the league's improving but still-precarious financial health amid the current economic slump. 
 Chris Chelios, the 47-year-old defenseman and longtime union activist who now plays for the Chicago Wolves of the American Hockey League, was the most criticized of the four panel members in several resignation letters that were made public. Chelios, a Kelly supporter, and Detroit defenseman Nicklas Lidstrom, San Jose defenseman Rob Blake and Boston forward Mark Recchi were appointed to the panel by the player representatives.
 On Friday, Ian Penny, who took over as interim director Aug. 31 after union representatives overwhelmingly voted out Kelly, resigned but wrote in his resignation letter that he was ''constructively dismissed.'' 
 Penny added that it had ''simply become impossible to work for the players in the environment that has been created.''
 ''Chelios has staff members spying on their colleagues so that he can intimidate and harass the targeted staffers,'' Penny said in his letter, referring to the staff review the panel was conducting as part of its investigative mandate. Penny called it ''completely inappropriate conduct'' that ''has created a hostile, fractured and distrustful work environment.''
 Steve Larmer, a former teammate of Chelios's, resigned from the advisory board. He said in his letter, ''If you allow Chris Chelios to continue to lead a charge for what appears to be a personal grudge for terminating Paul Kelly, whom he fully supports, that is your decision and you will be left to face the long-term damage that will occur.'' 
 Chelios, reached through the Chicago Wolves, declined to comment on Tuesday. But on Sunday, he sent a memo to union members that read, ''We are disappointed by the suggestions made by Steve Larmer and others that the N.H.L.P.A. has suspended operations or that our review committee has hijacked the union somehow.'' The memo also denied the panel had employees under surveillance as well as other accusations.
 The panel quickly appointed Mike Ouellet, the union's chief of business affairs, to run the union temporarily, and Roland Lee to replace Paul Cavalluzzo as outside counsel, actions that prompted an emergency conference call by the player representatives Sunday night to discuss whether the appointments violated the union's constitution. On Tuesday, the union's executive board announced that Ouellet and other senior staff members could ''help run the office until further notice'' but clarified that Ouellet was not to be considered the union's interim director.
 In his letter of resignation from the advisory board, the former N.H.L. player Ken Baumgartner said, ''I have grave concerns around the direction that the review committee is taking you.''
 Larmer and Baumgartner did not return calls Tuesday seeking comment.
 Ron Pink, a lawyer in Halifax, Nova Scotia, who also resigned from the advisory board, said in his letter that ''individuals have assumed control'' of the union and ''are dictating actions likely contrary to its constitution.'' He said those actions have probably subjected the union ''to potential legal liability.''
 The current collective bargaining agreement runs through the 2010-11 season, although the players have the option of extending it through 2011-12. 
 Ian Troop, a former president of the food conglomerate ConAgra who also resigned from the advisory board, said on Monday, ''It's not too late for the members to get a new executive director in place in enough time to negotiate a new collective bargaining agreement.''
 But, he added, ''For that to happen, the players have to start now -- they ought to be looking forward, not backward.'' 
 With the resignation of Penny, who had served as the union's general counsel since 2000, there is no executive left at the union with extensive experience in negotiating the complicated collective bargaining agreement with the more tenured management of the N.H.L. 
 The players union has been racked by turmoil for much of its existence. Its founder and first executive director, Alan Eagleson, served from 1967 until 1991, when he was dismissed amid charges of double-dealing with league owners. He later pleaded guilty to fraud in the United States and Canada and served 18 months in jail.
 His replacement, Bob Goodenow, took a hard line against the owners and led the union to impressive gains. But he resigned after the lockout that canceled the 2004-5 season and resulted in the current collective bargaining agreement, considered a victory for the owners.
 Goodenow's replacement, Ted Saskin, was fired in 2007 after it was determined that he had covertly gained access to players' e-mail accounts. Chelios was among those who led the movement to dismiss Saskin.
 Saskin was replaced by Kelly, who had been one of Eagleson's prosecutors. As executive director of the union, Kelly spoke publicly far more often than any of his predecessors on issues like moving teams to Canada, the effects of players taking hits to the head and the supposed desire of certain players to return to the N.H.L. from Russia. His outspokenness, and his pronouncements on the need for cooperation with the owners, did not sit well with all union members. 
 At a meeting in Chicago on Aug. 31, Kelly was dismissed after admitting that he had gained access to a transcript, constitutionally restricted to players only, that discussed his tenure. Kelly was fired by a vote of 22-5 and Penny agreed to take over.
 Penny said he would serve until the new year, when he expected a new executive director to be in place.
 Now, given all the tumult, recruiting a new director -- the union's fifth in nearly five years -- may prove difficult.
 Brian Leetch, the former Ranger, said Tuesday that he was disappointed by the union's state.
 ''It's much different from when I was playing,'' he said. ''We had players like Gretzky, Messier and Lemieux leading us, and we were all working for the same goal. There was trust of the union executives and all the players trusted each other. Now it seems they're trying to figure out which direction to go.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Repercussions continue for the N.H.L. after the ouster in August of the union chief Paul Kelly.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ADRIAN WYLD/CANADIAN PRESS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE HOCKEY (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); LOCKOUTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); ATHLETES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN HOCKEY LEAGUE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



146 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; HOW THEY DO IT OVER THERE; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 257 words

HEADLINE: The Taiwanese Project

 BODY:
William Hsiao is a professor of economics at the Harvard School of Public Health. He served as a health care adviser to the Taiwan government in the 1990s, when officials decided to revamp that country's health care system. Here is an excerpt of his conversation with the writer Anne Underwood. A fuller version appears on the Prescriptions blog. 
 Q.What was Taiwan's health care system like before 1995?
 A. Only a portion of the people were insured, including civil servants, employees of large firms and farmers. The military had its own system of coverage. But 45 percent of the population did not have insurance. 
 Q.What was your assignment?
 A. We had to design a national health insurance plan for Taiwan based on international experience. I made a study of the systems in six high-income countries -- the United States, the U.K., Germany, France, Canada and Japan. 
 Q.And what was your conclusion at the end of this study?
 A. We adopted a single-payer system along the Canadian lines. It offers people free choice of doctors and hospitals, and it has competition on the delivery side between public and private hospitals. The quality of health services is very high, and people were very satisfied with the system from the 1980s through the mid-1990s. 
 Q.How long did it take to implement this program?
 A. Less than a year. 
 Q.What does the system do particularly well?
 A. It's a paperless system. That's why it keeps administrative costs down to 2.3 percent of the total premium. In the United States, it's more than 10 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); HOSPITALS (78%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN (96%); CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (54%); FRANCE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



147 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: Report Says Big Buyouts Are Likelier To Default

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
Apparently, bigger isn't always better -- especially on Wall Street. 
 The 10 largest companies bought by private equity companies are performing worse than similar stand-alone companies or smaller private equity deals, according to a new report from Moody's, the rating agency. 
 Four of the 10 companies have defaulted on their debts, one is about to, and at least three have done special deals -- called distressed exchanges -- to reduce the debt loads placed on them by private equity transactions, the report says.
 ''It appears that when you do a large dollar value transaction and you lever that company up, you seem to be at more risk of having problems in a downturn,'' said John Rogers, a senior vice president at Moody's and the lead author of the study. 
 The report found that deals by two private equity firms, Cerberus and Apollo, have performed the worst among their peers. Four of Cerberus's six buyouts are in distress or in default, and about two-thirds of Apollo's companies are in equally dire straits. Moody's defines default as the nonpayment of debt on time and it includes various types of debt exchanges. Representatives for Cerberus and Apollo said they had not seen the report so could not comment on it. 
 In the go-go days of easy credit, private equity firms could borrow more money at cheaper rates, enabling them to buy bigger companies, which they then saddled with more debt. During the height of the boom, Cerberus bought Chrysler for $25 billion; Apollo and TPG bought Harrah's Entertainment for $31 billion; and Goldman Sachs, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and TPG bought the Dallas-based power producer TXU -- now named Energy Future Holdings -- for $42 billion. 
 When the credit markets froze and the economy stalled, these companies faced the double whammy of a global recession and enormous debt loads. 
 The Moody's report concludes that about 19.4 percent of companies bought by the 14 largest private equity firms from January 2008 to September 2009 have defaulted, slightly more than the 18.6 percent default rate for similarly rated companies (a rating is an evaluation of the company's creditworthiness, or likelihood of default). 
 But Moody's concludes that those companies are at higher risk than companies not owned by private equity, with almost 20 percent having a very low rating and negative outlook, compared to 14 percent for similarly rated companies. ''The default rates may be similar now, but in the future they may be higher,'' Mr. Rogers said. 
 The report concludes that private equity firms invest virtually no capital in the companies they buy, especially those in distress. 
 It warns that many of the companies owned by private equity face significant refinancing risks in the next one to three years as more debt comes due. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (94%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); RECESSION (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); POWER PLANTS (63%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (63%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S CORP (92%); KKR & CO LP (66%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CAESARS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (53%); ENERGY FUTURE HOLDINGS CORP (53%)

TICKER: MCO (NYSE) (92%); KKR (NYSE) (66%); GS (NYSE) (58%); CZR (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (66%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (53%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (53%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (53%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (53%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (53%); NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (53%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (53%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (53%) TEXAS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



148 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; PRACTICALLY SPEAKING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: One in Four Businesses Calls the Owner 'Ma'am'

BYLINE: By MICKEY MEECE

 BODY:
The Center for Women's Business Research was founded nearly two decades ago by a group of women seeking to win respect for businesses run by women. But even center officials were surprised by the findings in their own report: that those businesses play a significant role in the economy. 
 The report, which was released last month, estimated that eight million businesses -- or 28 percent of all businesses -- were owned by women, and that those businesses created or maintained 16 percent of all jobs in a range of industries like business services, personal services, retail, health care, communications and real estate.
 ''Impressive,'' said Gwen Martin, the center's interim executive director. ''It was something many of us knew intuitively. For the first time, we said, 'We're going to figure out how to quantify it.' I think everyone was pleasantly surprised with the results.'' 
 Still, Ms. Martin said, ''As good as it is, it also points out how much better it could be.'' Only 4.2 percent of all revenue is generated by businesses owned by women in the United States, the report found.
 Armed with the new research, center officials and other women business leaders are approaching the Obama administration, the Small Business Administration and House and Senate small-business committee members to ask for more resources and new programs to support women-owned businesses.
 Margaret Barton, executive director of the National Women's Business Council, a bipartisan federal advisory group that helped pay for the research, will be doing the same thing. ''It certainly strengthens our hand,'' Ms. Barton said.
 ''We've never done a study like this before,'' Ms. Barton said of the report, which was also underwritten by Wal-Mart Stores. ''We'd seen anecdotally about the number of women entrepreneurs. This is a confirmation of that.'' 
 The economic impact report, Ms. Barton said, offers ''recognition on the Hill and in the marketplace that women are doing much more than holding baby-sitting jobs, or proofreading papers or knitting macrame wall hangings.'' 
 But, she acknowledged, ''it's the glass half full,'' citing a finding in the report that only 20 percent of women-owned businesses had employees. She said she would like to see those numbers increase. ''We see that as an area of great growth and opportunity.''
 Ms. Martin agreed that that should be a priority. Most private and public programs focus on starting a business, she said. While those programs are still important, she said, ''we need to really teach how to grow a business,'' which requires different skills and motivations. 
 ''Women really have to fall in love with running a business,'' she said. ''They have to move in to the stage about being excited and motivated by running a business. We need help with that area.''
 Letty Hudson, president of Chicago Mini Bus Travel, is a prime example of the owner these groups are trying to spur on. She recently attended a meeting of Women Impacting Public Policy, a national bipartisan nonprofit group, trying to find ways to increase her business activity, which is down this year. While participants learned of the research on women and business, Ms. Hudson was able to share her own experience.
 She spoke of how she had created an ''inner circle'' group of five people whose mission was to make strategic contacts, and of how successful the group had been. ''It's a new way of doing business,'' Ms. Hudson said. ''Let's help each other. Look at our own history and go back and connect people.''
 After she finished, a participant at her table asked her to run a national bus tour. That happened, she said, ''just from me sitting there explaining how we can connect.''
 ''Business as usual has changed,'' she said. Relationships are now the key, she said. ''This is the new wave on how we change the economy.'' 
 Ms. Hudson runs a business that produces revenue of more than $1 million. 
 Ms. Barton, of the business council, said that she and others were particularly concerned about helping the ''missing middle,'' the majority of business owners who struggle to push annual revenue past $50,000. 
 ''We need to continue to look at that point on the spectrum,'' she said. ''We do well starting them out and encourage them at the top with mentoring, but it's the missing middle we need to help nourish.''
 Since 1999, Count Me In for Women's Economic Independence, a nonprofit organization founded by Nell Merlino, who created the Take Our Daughters to Work campaign, has concentrated its efforts on helping businesses owned by women grow. Count Me In runs a program called Make Mine a Million $ Business, which attracts hundreds of businesses each year hoping to reach the $1 million revenue threshold.
 In the third quarter, the leader board -- the program is a yearlong race -- showed that revenue for the top 25 businesses had grown 30 percent from a year earlier and that employment, along with the use of contract workers, had increased 86 percent, Ms. Merlino said. 
 Even in this tough climate, she said, these women are moving forward. ''This tells me that for all the focus the administration has on getting money moving, it is important, but it is not the only thing. It's got to be more about the middle -- it's where the jobs come.'' 
 ''The reason most business don't grow, but particularly women, is they try to do everything themselves,'' Ms. Merlino said. ''Here you have this economic calamity -- the most important thing to do is to hire people.'' With 10 million out of work, she added, there is an extraordinary labor pool.
 Colette Chapman, president of Chapman Concierge, based in Morristown, N.J., which works with corporations and residential management companies to provide services to employees and residents, took advantage of that talent this year, hiring a former chief financial officer and a former equities trader. ''Two years ago, I would never found that caliber of employees,'' Ms. Chapman said. ''They would never have consider doing it.''
 The recession has been good for her in other ways as well, she said, as overworked clients have taken advantage of her residential and corporate concierge services.
 She joined the Make Mine a Million challenge this year at the $344,000 revenue mark, hoping to raise that to $450,000 or higher. ''I set the bar high,'' Ms. Chapman said. ''We'll be very, very close.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Colette Chapman at the Henley on Hudson residential community in Weehawken, N.J., where her company provides service. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (91%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (54%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (53%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



149 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STATE OF THE ART; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: A Place To Put Your Apps

BYLINE: By DAVID POGUE. 
E-mail: pogue@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Last week, I reviewed not one, but three new phones. You'd think that would be enough for a while, but fall is peak season for new mobile devices, and another major release -- Motorola's Droid -- is upon us this week.
 But before we get to today's big review of the Droid, we need a noun.
 What should we call these iPhone-like, touch screen Wi-Fi phones with music and video, real Web browsers, e-mail, sensors (light, tilt, location, proximity), and, above all, app stores? These machines can download thousands of free or cheap add-on programs -- ''apps'' -- and become GPS units, musical instruments and medical equipment.
 ''Smartphone'' is too limited. A smartphone is a cellphone with e-mail -- an old BlackBerry, a Blackjack, maybe a Treo. This new category -- somewhere between cellphones and laptops, or even beyond them -- deserves a name of its own. 
 I invited suggestions on Twitter. The best came from @mentalworkout: ''app phone.'' Bingo. Apps distinguish iPhonish phones from mere smartphones, so ''app phones'' it is. 
 The latest hotly anticipated app phone is the Motorola Droid, which Verizon will offer on Friday. (It's $200 after $100 mail-in rebate, with contract. Tip: Get it at Best Buy, where you get the rebate on the spot.)
 The name fits. First, it runs Google's Android mobile operating system. In fact, it's the first phone with Android 2.0, which offers a number of touchups and refinements.
 Second, the Droid's design screams ''Star Wars,'' if not ''Darth Vader.'' It's jet black, all sharp angles and industrial-looking edges. Verizon asked Motorola to soften the design for better female appeal, but it's hopeless: Droid is all masculine, all the time. When you slide the screen up to reveal the thumb keyboard, there's no spring-assisted snap; it drags like a plow through soil. It's all part of the manly man design concept. 
 Verizon is clearly taking aim at the iPhone. especially in its recent TV ads, which mock: ''I don't have a real keyboard. I don't run simultaneous apps. I don't have interchangeable batteries. Everything iDon't, Droid does.''
 So is it true? Is the Droid an iPhone killer? 
 No, but it's certainly a killer phone. It runs on Verizon's superior cellphone network, so it won't drop your calls in New York City and San Francisco (as AT&T often does on the iPhone). 
 The Droid is just incredibly fast, so it's a delight to use. Audio quality is superb, both on phone calls and music. 
 The gorgeous screen is slightly bigger than the iPhone's; on close examination, its higher resolution (854 x 480 pixels) make text look sharper and curves smoother.
 And the Droid multitasks -- it can keep multiple programs open at once. Now, the usual response to this subject is: ''Ooh, so you can check your calendar or e-mail while you're on a call! You can listen to your music while surfing the Web!'' True, but even the ''nonmultitasking'' iPhone does all that.
 Still, the Droid's multitasking pays off in two situations: when you want to listen to Internet radio while you work in other apps, and when you're switching between programs a lot. Since they're already open, you don't have to wait for them to start up again with each switch.
 Anyone who hates typing on glass will love that the Droid gives you a choice: on-screen keyboard or illuminated, slide-out physical keyboard. The Droid's battery gets you through one day, just like the iPhone's, but you can carry a spare. 
 (Apple has always argued that a keyboard and swappable battery would make the phone too thick. Motorola points out that even with these elements, the Droid is only 1.4 millimeters thicker than the iPhone: 13.7 versus 12.3. That's not quite fair, though, because the iPhone's curved case tapers in your hand; it's 12.3 millimeters at its thickest point, so it still feels much thinner.) 
 In addition to great speed, great audio and great cell signal, the Droid offers Android 2.0's new navigation software. It's as close to a suction-cup GPS unit as you can get on a cellphone, with spoken street names, color coding to indicate traffic, map icons (for parking, gas and so on), satellite view and even street photos of any address. Buy the $30 windshield bracket, which fires up the GPS automatically when you insert the Droid, and nobody will know you're not running some $500 GPS unit.
 The real mind blower/game changer? This software is free. All of it. I'm guessing there wasn't much cheer at Garmin's Halloween party this year.
 You can also buy a $30 home dock. When you insert the Droid, an alarm-clock/weather display appears. Why not let your app phone do something useful while it's charging? 
 Meanwhile, Droid brings all the advantages of Google's open, customizable, now more refined Android software: a single Inbox can consolidate all of your e-mail accounts; the software now handles corporate Microsoft Exchange e-mail/calendar systems; there's a system-wide Search command (and a dedicated button) and voice search; you can put a Facebook widget on your Home screen; and so on. 
 For lots of people, these breakthroughs will be irresistible. But the Droid has its weak spots, and some of them are heartbreaking. The big one is polish and simplicity; the Droid just doesn't have enough. Techies may go nuts over its flexibility, but normal people are in for some floundering. Sometimes the keyboard doesn't light up when it should. Sometimes the screen image doesn't rotate when it should.
 The camera has an LED flash, which helps at close range at night, but the camera itself is balky and slow to focus and fire. You can record videos (at a high 720 by 480 resolution, although they don't look any sharper) and upload them to YouTube, but you can't trim the dead air off the ends first. 
 The Droid doesn't work outside the United States, as the iPhone does (for an added fee). There's no iTunes-like auto-synching software for the Droid, either, so loading music, photos and videos is a drag-and-drop operation.
 The Droid's Web browser is good, but slower than the iPhone's. And you have to zoom in and out by tapping +/- buttons or double-tapping the screen. That is, you can't control how much to zoom, so you get far less control (and pleasure) than ''pinching and spreading'' with two fingers on the iPhone and Palm Pre. Ditto with maps and photos.
 The real bummer, though, is the apps. The Android Market may offer 12,000 of them, but the iPhone store has 100,000 -- and over all, they seem to be more useful and imaginative. 
 Shopping is more awkward on the Droid, too, because you have to do it all on the phone; you can't use your computer, as you can for the iPhone. There's not much room for the apps on the Droid, either. Although Verizon includes a 16-gigabyte memory card for your music and photos, apps have to be stored in a 560-megabyte chunk of built-in memory. Some Droiders will fill that up quick.
 Droid-versus-iPhone deciders should also take into account the iPhone economy: that universe of docks, cases, chargers, Web sites and information that surround Apple's hype monster. The Droid will sell like crazy, but 30 million iPhones is quite a head start. 
 But never mind. Motorola's new team faced a spectacularly difficult task and did a spectacularly great job. Since Verizon seems to want a Droid-iPhone faceoff, here it is: the Droid wins on phone network, customizability, GPS navigation, speaker, physical keyboard, removable battery and openness (free operating system, mostly uncensored app store). The iPhone wins on simplicity, refinement, thinness, design, Web browsing, music/video synching with your computer, accessory ecosystem and quality/quantity of the app store. 
 You'll be very happy either way -- with your shiny new app phone.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Motorola Droid is jet black, all sharp angles and industrial-looking edges, and it goes on sale Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B10) DRAWING (DRAWING BY STUART GOLDENBERG) (pg.B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (95%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); SMARTPHONES (90%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (90%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); INTERNET TELEPHONY (76%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (76%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (75%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (72%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (72%); MUSIC (71%); SALES REBATES (70%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (69%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (67%)

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (58%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (56%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); MSI (NYSE) (58%); RIM (TSX) (56%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%) NEW YORK, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



150 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Voters Roll Back Democratic Gains in New York Suburbs

BYLINE: By LIZ ROBBINS

 BODY:
Voters in two of New York City's wealthiest suburbs, where Democrats had established a stronghold in recent elections, shocked the incumbents by backing virtual unknowns in contests that left one three-term county executive defeated, and another, a former rising star, hanging on for his political life. 
 In Westchester County, where Democrats have had nearly a 2-to-1 advantage in voter registration, a Republican challenger, Rob Astorino, upset the Democratic county executive, Andrew J. Spano, who was seeking his fourth term. 
 In Nassau County, Republicans apparently recaptured control of the County Legislature, and the Democratic county executive, Thomas R. Suozzi, was hanging on to a 237-vote lead over the Republican challenger, Edward P. Mangano with absentee and provisional ballots not yet tallied.
 ''The reality is, I'm luckier than a lot of incumbents,'' Mr. Suozzi said at a news conference Wednesday afternoon on Long Island. 
 Turnout was noticeably low on Tuesday in Westchester and Nassau, as voters there seemed to both mirror the national trend of frustration with the economy and express their outrage over high local property taxes. 
 These suburban races also echoed voters' weariness with incumbents in two of the higher-profile elections in the nation -- the defeat of Gov. Jon S. Corzine in New Jersey and the surprisingly narrow re-election margin for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York.
 ''I didn't think that the race would be this close,'' Mr. Suozzi said. ''Given the way the tide is, I'm happy to be ahead by 237 votes.'' 
 But with about 12,000 paper ballots (including absentees) still to be counted, and voting machines to be recanvassed, it may take a month or more to determine the winner, Mr. Suozzi said. Even if he is able to pull out victory, Mr. Suozzi, an outspoken politician with statewide ambitions, might be hamstrung by a newly hostile County Legislature.
 ''Yesterday, the Republicans stopped the wave in suburbia,'' said Lawrence C. Levy, the executive director of the National Center for Suburban Studies at Hofstra University. ''Whether that is a permanent trend or this is a momentary pause, and whether the Republicans have a real chance to regain the chance to power in New York State is yet to be seen.''
 Mr. Levy added, ''There was a general tarnishing of the Democratic brand, from Washington to Albany to Mineola.''
 In 2001, Mr. Suozzi, then the mayor of Glen Cove, defeated a Republican machine that had dominated the county for decades; he later competed for the 2006 nomination for governor against Eliot Spitzer. 
 ''I don't think this is about Ed Mangano, I think a lot of people still don't know who Ed Mangano is,'' Mr. Suozzi said. ''This is a referendum on what's going on with property taxes.''
 The problem, he said, is that voters in Nassau County might have focused only on the bottom line. County residents pay the second-highest total property taxes, on average, in the nation, according to the Census Bureau, but only about one-sixth of the revenue goes to county government; a very large share, 65 percent, is school tax, Mr. Suozzi said. 
 In Westchester County -- which leads the nation in property taxes, according to the Census Bureau -- Mr. Astorino was surprised that his victory over Mr. Spano was by so wide a margin: 15 percentage points. 
 ''The message was very simple: Enough was enough on taxes,'' Mr. Astorino said in a telephone interview. ''This was a referendum on property taxes.''
 That was just one of a number of factors in his victory. At 42, Mr. Astorino provided a charismatic contrast to Mr. Spano, 73, who admitted that voters might have been swayed by his age. 
 Mr. Spano said he was surprised to learn that Mr. Astorino's campaign had been infused with about $500,000 in the final two weeks. Mr. Spano said his challenger hit voters with three issues: high property taxes, the money Mr. Spano spent for personal security (Mr. Spano said that it was $300,000, and not $400,000, and that a security allowance had been in the budget for 40 years), and a controversial fair housing plan. 
 ''I don't want to sound like sour grapes, it's just that there is a tenor out there and it's legitimate,'' Mr. Spano said. ''If a candidate is able to tap into it, it resonates.'' 
 While Mr. Spano underestimated Mr. Astorino's reach, it hurt countywide that Democrats ran uncontested races in several Democratic bastions, including Greenburgh, where Paul Feiner won the town supervisor race. 
 Westchester County has 537,458 registered voters, according to the county's Board of Elections. (Of those voters, 257,758 are Democrats, and 136,381 are Republicans.) But according to the board's Web site, unofficially fewer than 160,000 people voted for county executive.
 Both candidates said that Democrats approached them in the days before the election and told them they were voting Republican for the first time. 
 ''This is just an aberration -- it has nothing to do with me, as far as I'm concerned,'' Mr. Spano said. 'They're mad at Albany, and Washington.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTY GOVERNMENT (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (92%); COUNTIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SUBURBS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (79%); BALLOTS (79%); GOVERNORS (78%); TRENDS (77%); EXECUTIVES (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (53%); PROPERTY TAX (52%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (58%); JON CORZINE (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



151 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: Christie Vows to Find Ways To Cut Homeowners' Taxes

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER; Nate Schweber contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Governor-elect Christopher J. Christie of New Jersey, basking in praise from Republicans who hailed him as the party's new star, said Wednesday that he would move quickly to suspend new regulations on business and find ways to lower crushing property taxes, the nation's highest.
 Mr. Christie also said he would enforce a stricter cap on increases in spending at the local level -- the primary driver of the rising property taxes that have set off anger among voters. 
 In Newark, the governor-elect sought to show that he would make urban education a priority, traveling to a charter school and pressing his argument that children in the poorest cities were being held back by teachers' unions blocking school vouchers and merit pay. Democrats have accused Republicans of ignoring the state's ailing cities.
 ''Other than taxes and funding issues, the most important issue to me is fixing our urban education problem,'' he said. ''I am not going to allow public school children to be cheated by public schools.''
 Mr. Christie, 47, the former United States attorney for New Jersey, became the first governor in New Jersey to oppose abortion since the Roe v. Wade decision. But as he did during the campaign, he signaled on Wednesday that his focus would be on bread-and-butter fiscal issues. 
 His election gave hope to the state's Republicans, whose party was nearly written off a year ago, that they can still win the support of so-called Reagan Democrats and independent voters.
 Mr. Christie was praised by Republican leaders, including Gov. Charlie Crist of Florida, Rudolph W. Giuliani, and the national party chairman, Michael Steele, for his decisive defeat of Gov. Jon S. Corzine despite being outspent two to one. 
 He faces some of the most daunting challenges in decades: high unemployment, a projected $8 billion deficit, a suffocating tax burden, crumbling roadways, an impatient electorate and a Democratic Legislature that could be as loath to help him succeed as Republicans in Congress have been to aid President Obama.
 He acknowledged the dimensions of the state's economic crisis. ''We've got a lot to do and we know it,'' he said. ''The reality of last night sinks in slowly.''
 Still, Mr. Christie, who warmed New Jerseyans with his love of diners and Bruce Springsteen songs, brings distinct advantages to the job. He is not beholden to public unions and he kept his campaign promises vague, and his forceful persona and prosecutorial style offer a sharp contrast to the weak public perception of his predecessor. 
 ''His first task will have to be to make New Jersey's governor the most powerful governor's office in the country again,'' said Pete McDonough, a top adviser to former Gov. Christie Whitman, the last Republican to win the job. ''Corzine ceded the agenda to the Legislature very early. Christie's got to be the new sheriff in town. If you're really in charge, you can instill a sense of reality in Trenton: 'I'm going to change it, and you're not going to stop me.'''
 Mr. Christie, however, strove to sound conciliatory on Wednesday. ''Am I willing to fight? Of course I am,'' he said. ''I'm not a wallflower. But I don't go in with that attitude.''
 But having vanquished Mr. Corzine in Democratic areas like Gloucester County, the home of the incoming State Senate president, Stephen M. Sweeney, Mr. Christie has a strong hand to play, Mr. McDonough said. ''He can turn to the Democrats in the Legislature and say, 'Guys, your people supported me,' '' he said.
 The new governor's biggest obstacle will be an economy in which jobs keep disappearing and foreclosures keep rising. 
 ''Things are not as bad here as in Florida or California, the housing bust states, or the legacy automotive states,'' said James W. Hughes, dean of the Bloustein School of Planning and Policy at Rutgers. ''But people are going to want jobs, and a lot of focus is going to be on how effective he can be in getting job growth to resume.''
 Dan Clifton, a veteran Republican budget analyst, said there were few options for major spending cuts by the state, short of privatizing the prisons or selling off assets like the toll roads, which Mr. Corzine attempted in a disastrous political failure.
 ''How does he not cut tax rebates?'' Mr. Clifton said, referring to Mr. Christie's campaign promise to restore the yearly checks to many homeowners that went by the wayside in this year's budget. ''The campaign is over. It's time to think about governing.''
 Ed Rollins, the Republican strategist who worked for Mrs. Whitman in 1993, said Mr. Christie would have a short honeymoon. ''But if he can clean up New Jersey, which has been known for being corrupt and inefficient, at the end of the day he's a national player,'' he said.
 Still, Mr. Christie's communication skills and Jersey-guy affability could help him make his case to the public. After aristocrats like Thomas H. Kean and Mrs. Whitman, technocrats like Jim Florio and James E. McGreevey, and the Manhattan-centric Mr. Corzine, the state is getting a governor many New Jersey residents can identify with. 
 ''If you think of how we view ourselves, that's Chris Christie,'' said Bill Baroni, a Republican state senator and close ally. ''This is a guy who drives the turnpike, who knows every word to every song ever written by Springsteen, who loves his wife, who he met in college, and who moved back from college to his home state. He just loves New Jersey, and that came across.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The mayor of Newark, Cory A. Booker, left, with Mr. Christie and Lt. Gov.-elect Kim Guadagno. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A26) CHART: A STATEWIDE SHIFT: In the race for governor, counties across New Jersey voted more Republican than they did four years ago, with the sharpest shifts occuring in heavily Republican areas. These areas also had some of the biggest increases in turnout. (Sources: Associated Press
 Dave Leip's U.S. Election Atlas) (pg.A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (75%); POLITICS (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TEACHER UNIONS (69%); MERIT PAY (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); ABORTION (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (62%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (55%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (55%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (59%); CHARLIE CRIST (59%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); MICHAEL STEELE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



152 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE WORK-UP; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1602 words

HEADLINE: To Their Own Devices

BYLINE: By BARRY MEIER

 BODY:
When makers of heart defibrillators wanted Medicare to vastly expand the types of patients eligible to receive the devices, which can cost upward of $25,000, agency officials were skeptical. It was not clear how many of those patients would actually need a defibrillator, a device that can deliver a life-saving shock to restore a faltering heart to normal rhythm.
 So government and industry struck a deal back in 2004. Medicare agreed to expand the device's use, nearly doubling the number of patients who qualified for one. The companies, in return, agreed to pay for a study to see which patients really benefited. 
 Five years later, Medicare underwrites more than half of the $4 billion the nation now spends annually on defibrillators, but the agency is no closer to knowing how many lives that big investment is saving. That is because the device companies did not finance the study beyond their initial $4 million commitment, and Medicare did not pick up the slack. As a result, researchers still cannot gather data that would identify the types of patients who would most benefit from a defibrillator. 
 And so, doctors keep implanting costly defibrillators in patients who may not benefit from them. And doctors and patients have no way of knowing whether one producer's model performs better than a competitor's. 
 The picture is no clearer for the many other types of medical devices that taxpayers, through government-run programs like Medicare, underwrite. Every year, for instance, doctors give patients tens of thousands of artificial hips and knees, without having the data to indicate how long they will last or which ones work best, and Medicare picks up the bills.
 As Congress seeks to revamp the nation's health care system, medical devices might seem an inviting target to better control Medicare spending. Outlays on implanted devices stand at about $76 billion annually in this country and are rising at a rate faster than the cost of drugs, according to a recent study by the McKinsey Global Institute, a consulting group. With an aging population in America, Medicare is picking up more of those costs.
 But legislation pending in the House and Senate may not help, some experts say, because the proposals do not require device makers to compete on the same ground as other manufacturers -- product performance and price.
 Medical devices pose unique challenges for lawmakers. Medicare does not set or negotiate prices for the implants. Instead, it pays a flat rate to a hospital for procedures to give a patient a defibrillator or a hip, leaving it up to the hospital to negotiate the price of the device with the maker -- a negotiation in which hospitals may have little leverage. 
 Unlike other hospital products, implants are so-called physician preference items, meaning that doctors -- not the hospitals -- often choose which manufacturer's implant to use. It is a decision that can be skewed by a doctor's relationship to a company and can also undercut a hospital's ability to negotiate the best price, experts say. 
 Medicare's laissez-faire approach has big implications for taxpayers because every year, spending on device-related procedures soars ever higher. 
 ''This is a dysfunctional market if you take the perspective of the consumer or public programs like Medicare,'' said Jeffrey C. Lerner, the president and chief executive of the ECRI Institute, a nonprofit organization in Plymouth Meeting, Pa., that evaluates medical devices for clients that include hospitals. 
 No one questions that implants like defibrillators and artificial hips extend and improve lives. But profit margins on medical devices are also among the highest for any medical products -- over 20 percent, in the case of a defibrillator or an artificial hip, according to analysts. 
 In an effort to slow federal spending, the bill passed by the Senate Finance Committee would require the device industry to pay the government $4 billion a year for five years, with the portions allocated among individual companies based on their market shares. But device makers, including the ones that initially financed the defibrillator study -- Medtronic, Boston Scientific and St. Jude Medical -- have fiercely resisted the provision, calling it an unfair ''tax'' that will stifle innovation and cause job losses.
 The companies have the support of some elected officials from the device makers' home states, including Al Franken, the freshman Democratic senator of Minnesota, where Medtronic, the nation's biggest device producer, and St. Jude Medical and some other device companies are based. 
 Although a political compromise over the issue is expected, the type of revenue claw-back contained in the Finance Committee bill would do little to address the underlying scientific and economic challenges that devices pose, several experts said. 
 The big problems, in such experts' view, is that there is little data available to compare the benefits of competing makers' products or to determine how much buyers, like hospitals, should be paying for them, said Eugene Schneller, a business professor at Arizona State University in Tempe.
 For example, even doctors acknowledge that they typically have little reason to be concerned about a device's costs when it comes to deciding which one to use. One doctor compared it to giving a car buyer a blank check and letting him choose between a Maserati or Honda. 
 ''You are going to walk out of a dealership with a really nice car, if you don't have to pay,'' said William Maisel, a cardiologist at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston.
 However, unlike a car buyer, who can see a vast array of comparative information about competing products, a cardiologist or an orthopedic surgeon has little if any comparative data when choosing a device. 
 Also, many doctors are unlikely to shop around, because they tend to stick with a single producer -- either because they have been trained on a particular maker's devices or because they have financial ties to the company. 
 Meanwhile, hospitals are often hampered in their ability to negotiate prices with device makers because the selling price of a defibrillator or hip joint is not easy to determine. In selling products, device companies have required hospitals to sign contracts that contain confidentiality clauses under which facilities agree not to disclose what they paid for the product. 
 As a result, a big hospital that is a large-volume buyer of heart devices or hips may pay higher prices than a smaller one that buys fewer units, said Dr. Lerner of ECRI.
 In 2007, Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, helped introduce legislation that would have required device makers to regularly disclose the average selling price for their products. Current health care reform proposals do not contain such a provision, said a spokeswoman for the Advanced Medical Technology Association, the device industry's trade group. 
 In some other countries, medical device databases have been established to provide both doctors and patients with more data about how competing products differ. In such a database, or a registry, information about a product and the surgical technique used by a doctor is recorded at the time of an implant. And then by tracking whether and when the patients return for a replacement procedure, or experience other problems, registries can show which producers' models are failing faster than others. 
 The information can help doctors and insurers avoid less reliable devices, while also avoiding the high additional medical costs of remedial treatments and replacement procedures. 
 But while the United States is the world's largest user of orthopedic devices, efforts to set up registries have largely failed. The result is that orthopedic patients here are twice as likely to require an earlier-than-expected replacement procedure for a hip or a knee than in countries, like Australia, that have registries. 
 Doctors in such countries often are less eager to embrace newer, more costly models than doctors in the United States because evidence shows that new models are more prone to failure during their initial years of use. 
 Eliminating unnecessary replacement procedures could potentially save Medicare hundreds of millions annually. But Medicare has not pushed the use of registries, and the industry has also not embraced it. To date, hip and knee producers have contributed $500,000 to underwrite an effort by the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons, a professional group, to create a national artificial hip and knee registry. But that is a relative pittance -- about what many individual companies pay to a few doctors each year to retain them as consultants. 
 Some experts like Dr. Maisel, the cardiologist in Boston, said it was naive to expect the industry to underwrite registries, because it was not in a company's interest to see its products compared against those made by competitors. 
 The federal government could also play a more aggressive role in making sure it is getting better value for its money, he added. A case in point -- requiring that makers of heart devices use batteries that last longer than five years, the period of time when patients must now undergo an additional, potentially dangerous operation to have a costly device replaced.
 Dr. Maisel said, ''Why would you build a better light bulb that lasts longer if it is going to reduce your profits?'' 
 THE WORK UP: Articles in this series are analyzing the economic and financial issues at the heart of the health care debate in Washington. 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 16, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Nov. 4 about a lack of data on the benefits and relative performance of many medical devices described incorrectly the findings of a McKinsey Global Institute report on the rising costs of such devices. Current spending on the six highest-cost implanted devices alone is about $13 billion annually, not $76 billion. (While a chart in that report described current annual spending on medical devices as about $76 billion, McKinsey said that the figure reflected not just spending on implanted devices but also on other hospital products like X-ray film and surgical gloves.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A researcher at the device maker Medtronic in Memphis examining a spinal system. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LANCE MURPHEY/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg.B1)
A Medtronic heart pacemaker. Unlike other hospital products, implant brands are often chosen by the doctors, not hospitals. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B6) CHART: OPERATING PROFIT MARGINS (Source: Credit Suisse estimates based on company reports) (pg.B1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (91%); MEDICARE (90%); MEDICAL DEVICES (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); ELECTROMEDICAL APPARATUS MFG (89%); HEALTH CARE (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (69%); LEGISLATION (68%); AGING TRENDS (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); AGING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



153 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: Getting Real About House Prices

BYLINE: By KATE MURPHY

 BODY:
WHEN Matthew White, a landscape architect, decided two years ago to sell his 1,300-square-foot apartment in Philadelphia, he knew real estate prices were plummeting. Nevertheless, he thought he could get $760,000, about what he had paid two years earlier, because he had made many improvements to the space, an airy penthouse with two verdant terraces. 
 ''It's an incredible property, with spectacular views,'' he said. Within a month, he got what he considered an ''insulting'' bid of $525,000. Five price reductions later, he wishes he had taken that offer. ''I wasn't realistic about what I could get,'' said Mr. White, whose apartment is currently listed for $449,900. ''It is such a special place, but now I realize that doesn't matter during a recession.'' 
 Even in the best of times, it's hard for individuals to objectively value their homes, which often reflect their sense of self and personal style. Making things even more difficult has been general market inactivity lately, if not paralysis, which has provided little in the way of pricing guidance. But by using online resources, investigating neighborhood trends, consulting real estate experts and perhaps even asking the opinions of brutally honest friends, homeowners can arrive at a reasonably accurate appraisal even in these uncertain times. 
 A good place to start is your local tax assessor's or county clerk's office, many of which post real estate transactions on their Web sites. Links can be found at onlinedetective.com (parts under construction) and netronline.com. Those records will tell you what has recently sold in your neighborhood and for how much. Look for comparable homes with similar features and square footage.
 Be aware that prices may not always totally reflect reality. ''The house could have been sold to a sister or been part of a larger transaction,'' said Dean Gatzlaff, a professor of real estate investment and urban economics at Florida State University in Tallahassee, like maybe a 1970s Eldorado convertible was thrown into the deal. 
 People living in ''nondisclosure'' states (Alaska, Idaho, Indiana, Kansas, Louisiana, Maine, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, New Mexico, North Dakota, Texas, Utah and Wyoming), where the sale prices of homes in most jurisdictions are not public information, have to approximate by looking up mortgages on transferred deeds of trust and factoring in typical down payments and interest rates. In any event, don't trust tax appraisals, as they are notoriously inaccurate. 
 ''Look for sales within the last two to three months if there are any,'' said David Kupfer, a real estate agent with Keller Williams in Phoenix, where prices in some neighborhoods have fallen as much as 50 percent in the last two years. ''Six months ago is obsolete,'' he said, because markets have been changing so rapidly. 
 Indeed, real estate agents and appraisers from Manhattan to Menlo Park said they now consider sales figures older than six weeks unreliable. Other sources of information are free online home value estimators on sites like zillow.com, trulia.com and forsalebyowner.com. But these derive some of their information from public records, including tax appraisals, and are thus subject to error. A test of those sites using various residences nationwide provided valuations that ranged from exactly right to incredibly inflated. Most estimates, however, were within the rough range of reality.
 Compare the estimates with prices of homes on the market now. ''These are your direct competition even if the homes are foreclosures'' or fire sales by distressed home builders, said Jim Amorin, a real estate appraiser in Austin, Tex., and president of the Appraisal Institute, a trade organization. ''That's hard for a lot of people to accept,'' he said, when their homes weren't abandoned, repossessed or otherwise forsaken. 
 Leonard Calandriello, a retired banker in Chandler, Ariz., said he felt ''entitled'' to $500,000 for the 1,975-square-foot town house he bought new in 2007 for $470,000, then upgraded with enhancements like plantation shutters and a travertine patio, spending another $30,000. But with nearby foreclosures and the developer of his community cutting deals, he has had to reduce his asking price twice since May, to $399,000. ''We may have to come down more,'' he said. ''Psychologically it can really get you down.''
 Real estate experts recommend that homeowners do as Mr. Calandriello did and attend nearby open houses to see how their homes compare in size and amenities. But be realistic about what truly adds value and perhaps consult the Marshall & Swift Residential Cost Handbook, which professional appraisers use to assess how much, say, a fireplace or three-car garage is worth. The $300 tome is available in some business school libraries, but you can also pay $10 to use the SwiftEstimator at swiftestimator.com, which lets you do an item-by-item calculation of the value of your home. 
 The attractiveness of construction and design elements is subjective, so experts said it might be as meaningful to poll your most straight-talking friends. ''You may love your new sauna and think it's a wonderful and attractive feature, but someone else may not care, or even think they need a deduction so they can rip it out,'' Mr. Amorin said. 
 That's a lesson that Michel Shanks, a financial adviser, learned over the last year as she and her husband, Rick, a lawyer, tried to sell their 4,000-square-foot Mediterranean-style house in Bellaire, Tex., a suburb of Houston. Against the advice of their real estate broker, they listed their home for $825,000, more than the prices of nearby homes. 
 ''You're emotionally attached, so you think your home is worth more,'' she said. ''I had a landscape service and a Sub-Zero refrigerator and an icemaker on every floor, but buyers don't care, they want deals.'' The house eventually sold last February for $605,000 after 10 months and four price reductions. 
 Indeed, real estate experts said the only things that command premiums these days are location, light and space. ''These are immutable, everything else can change,'' said Carey Adina Karmel of the Corcoran Group in New York. Even so, she said, these attributes are not worth what they once were: ''Sellers have had to lower their expectations, and it's painful.''
 Seeking pricing advice from real estate agents or paying $250 to $500 for a professional appraisal are options. But know their respective biases. ''The Realtor has the incentive to start high to get a bigger commission, so if you are not in a rush to sell and can accept having to lower your price later, then go with the Realtor's price,'' said Karl Case, a professor of economics at Wellesley College and a founder of the Case-Shiller home price index. ''Appraisers are worried about getting sued for inflating prices, as we saw leading up to the mortgage meltdown, so their natural bias now is to quote low. So if you want to be realistic, go with their estimate.''
 In the end, the value of a home is the price the buyer is willing to pay. It's chance, circumstance and psychology as much as location, square footage and design that ultimately determine the price someone will pay for your house.
 ''Your home is where you live,'' said Kathy Wetmore, a Houston real estate agent, not an investment with a guaranteed return. Recalling several boom and bust cycles in her 22-year career, she added, ''You make money in business, not in real estate.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BUY IN THE SKY: Four years ago, Matthew White, right, paid about $760,000 for a penthouse in a Philadelphia building, top left. Now he can't get $450,000 for the apartment, despite the fact that it has amenities like a roof deck off the kitchen, left, and the living room, top right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D8) DRAWING (DRAWING BY HARRY CAMPBELL) (pg.D1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); HOME PRICES (91%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); DEEDS & RECORDINGS (78%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RECESSION (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); HOMEOWNERS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); TRENDS (71%); TAX ASSESSORS (70%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); INTEREST RATES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); WYOMING, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



154 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: The Voters Barked. Now What?

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
Email: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS 

 BODY:
 The dog finally barked. Now we'll see if it can bite.
 If ever an Election Day had a clear theme in the cities and suburbs outside New York it was this one: property taxes.
 Contemplating the election landscape and the region's high property tax burden a month ago, Richard Nathan, who was retiring as co-director of the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government at the State University of New York at Albany mused: ''When is this dog going to bark? And the numbers make you think it's going to be soon.''
 On Tuesday night Christopher J. Christie became the first New Jersey Republican elected statewide in 12 years. In Westchester, Rob Astorino defeated the county executive, Andrew J. Spano, a Democrat who had served 12 years. In Nassau, County Executive Thomas R. Suozzi, a Democrat, was in a dead heat with the challenger Edward P. Mangano, and Republicans had recaptured the County Legislature. The sounds heard in all three were the barks, yelps and growls of angry voters who had had enough. 
 ''Clearly the theme of this campaign was property taxes, and this is a referendum on taxes,'' Mr. Astorino said on Tuesday on the kind of night Westchester Republicans have seldom had since the era when Don Draper was taking the train from Ossining to Grand Central. Once solidly Republican, Westchester has nearly twice as many registered Democrats as Republicans. 
 ''You heard it all over,'' Mr. Astorino said. ''The people were frustrated, and they were angry. A lot of incumbents for a long time saw this, but felt it will always bend but it never breaks. Well, it broke tonight.''
 There were differences in the three races -- the taint of failure and corruption in New Jersey politics, the perception that Mr. Spano had lost touch with voters, the low-visibility race in Nassau that left Democratic voters complacent. But fundamental to them all was the toxic combination of the Great Recession and the highest property taxes in the country.
 The 10 counties in the nation with the highest median property taxes are all in New York or New Jersey, with Westchester first and Nassau second. Of the 10 counties with the highest real estate taxes as a percentage of home value, all 10 are in New York. Of the states with the highest median real estate taxes overall, New Jersey is No. 1, Connecticut is No. 2 and New York is No. 4, behind tax-averse New Hampshire, which does not have a general sales tax or a personal income tax.
 SO after years of appearing out of touch with their own party and with the socially moderate voters in suburban New York and New Jersey, the region's Republicans, at least for a night, had a winning message. 
 ''Republicans historically have stood for lower spending, lower taxes, fiscal responsibility,'' Elizabeth N. Feld, the mayor of Larchmont, said as Mr. Astorino's victory celebration wound down. ''They got away from that under Bush and the Republican Congress. But Rob's message about taxes resonated because it was the right message.''
 Ironically, Mr. Suozzi, chairman of New York's commission on property tax relief, has been one of the most insistent voices on addressing property tax issues. And how much Republicans can actually do about taxes is another question. Asked if voters can expect Republicans in both states to lower taxes, Robert Ward, deputy director of the Rockefeller Institute, answered simply: ''No.''
 He continued: ''The best that we can hope for is moderating the growth in taxes. Property taxes will almost certainly continue to go up, but it matters a great deal if they go up at a rate of 3 percent every year rather than 6 percent every year.'' With the bulk of property taxes going to schools, it's uncertain whether angry voters want to consolidate school districts, increase class size or lay off teachers.
 Property taxes can be parochial issues, but that doesn't mean the shift in the political weather from a year ago is necessarily transitory. 
 ''On substantive issues like taxes, people feel like there's a runaway train of big government spending,'' said William Lalor, a lawyer and freelance political consultant. ''Obama's been in office a year. He's taken on a lot of big issues and doesn't have much to show for it.'' 
 He added, ''So, yes, there are a lot of local issues, but when you see New Jersey and Westchester, of all places, going Republican, you have to say that there's something going on.''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 6, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Thursday with the Our Towns column, about anger over property taxes among voters in the New York suburbs, misstated the outcome of Thomas R. Suozzi's race for re-election as Nassau County executive. Mr. Suozzi, a Democrat, has a slight lead over his Republican challenger, Edward P. Mangano, but the winner has not yet been determined; Mr. Suozzi did not lose the race.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thomas Suozzi lost his race.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); REFERENDUMS (73%); SALES TAX (72%); INCOME TAX (72%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (71%); CORRUPTION (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



155 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: Energized G.O.P. Looks to Avoid a Party Feud

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Carl Hulse and Jeremy W. Peters contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Republicans emerged from Tuesday's elections energized by victories in Virginia and New Jersey, but their leaders immediately began maneuvering to avoid a prolonged battle with conservative activists over what the party stands for and how to regain power.
 The victories, in races for governor, were cast by the party's national chairman, Michael Steele, as a sign of a ''Republican renaissance.'' In New Jersey, Gov. Jon S. Corzine, a Democrat, was toppled by the Republican nominee, Christopher J. Christie. In Virginia, Robert F. McDonnell, the Republican, defeated his Democratic opponent, R. Creigh Deeds. 
 Republicans said the victories showed that President Obama and his party were vulnerable on the economy, government spending and other issues.
 Yet throughout the day Wednesday, Republicans grappled with the disappointing outcome of a special election for what had been a reliably Republican House seat in upstate New York. That contest became a battleground between the party establishment and a conservative insurgency demanding more ideological purity from candidates. 
 The race was won by a Democrat, Bill Owens, after the Republican nominee, Dede Scozzafava, a moderate, quit as conservative leaders and grass-roots organizations rallied around Douglas L. Hoffman, who ran on the Conservative Party line.
 Despite Mr. Hoffman's loss, many conservatives promised to press on with opposition to centrist Republican candidates. That vow intensified concerns among party leaders that the opportunities they see coming out of Tuesday's results could be dimmed by intramural battles over whether to reach for the political center or do more to motivate the base on the party's right.
 ''When our party is united, whether you run in a Northern state or a Southern state, our party can win,'' said the House Republican whip, Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia. ''But when you are divided, you can lose a seat that has been in the Republican column for quite a long time.''
 The debate has been fueled by a somewhat inchoate populist anger that has taken hold among grass-roots conservatives, encouraged in part by political leaders like Sarah Palin, the party's vice-presidential nominee last year, and commentators like Glenn Beck of Fox News. In that sense, the divisions within the party extend beyond the traditional strains between the shrinking ranks of Republican moderates and the social and economic conservatives who have dominated the party in recent years.
 The situation is all the more complicated because, after the party's defeats in 2008, it has no dominant leaders or cohesive establishment to bridge the divides and help articulate a positive agenda. In that vacuum, the conservative activists and party leaders were both jockeying for advantage on Wednesday. 
 Mr. Steele, the party chairman, said in an interview that the outcome in New Jersey and Virginia, where Mr. Christie and Mr. McDonnell had played down their conservative views on social issues, instead focusing on the economy, should go a long way toward relieving the divisions and showing the party how to win next year.
 Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota, a potential 2012 presidential candidate who backed Mr. Hoffman in the New York race, told reporters in Iowa that he would not get involved in an intraparty battle again. He said the New York contest, as a special election, had been unusual in that the nominee had been chosen by party leaders rather than by primary. 
 Mike Huckabee, a former Arkansas governor who is also a possible 2012 contender, urged Republicans not to support third-party candidates, warning that doing so was a recipe for defeat. ''There is potential danger if people believe the way to get the attention of Washington is through third-party candidates,'' he said. ''Typically what a third-party candidate does is ensure the election of the one you like the least.''
 But Mr. Huckabee, eager not to alienate conservatives, made clear that he would support primary challenges to Republican candidates who he thought strayed from the party's values. As one example, he said he was supporting a conservative challenger to Gov. Charlie Crist of Florida, who is seeking the nomination for a Senate seat in a primary that is shaping up as the next big showdown between Republicans. 
 Senator John Cornyn of Texas, chairman of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, told ABC News that the committee would not spend money on behalf of candidates it is supporting in contested Republican primaries, like Mr. Crist in Florida. Although the committee typically does not spend money in a primary, Republicans said Mr. Cornyn's remark was intended to relieve some of the anger being directed at the party establishment.
 Ms. Palin, who had endorsed Mr. Hoffman in the upstate New York race, indicated that she had not been dissuaded by his loss.
 ''To the tireless grass-roots patriots who worked so hard in that race and to future citizen-candidates like Doug,'' she wrote on her Facebook page, ''please remember Reagan's words of encouragement after his defeat in 1976: the cause goes on.''
 And Senator Jim DeMint, Republican of South Carolina, announced that he was endorsing Chuck DeVore, a conservative, in the California race for a Senate seat. Mr. DeVore is opposing Carly Fiorina, former chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, who was encouraged by party leaders to seek the nomination.
 Other conservatives, too, were not deterred by the New York defeat. Marjorie Dannenfelser, president of the Susan B. Anthony List, a conservative organization that strongly supported Mr. Hoffman, said that conservative activists intended to play a role in Republican primary and general elections next year and that it was just as important to keep unacceptable politicians out of Congress as to help others win.
 Chris Chocola, president of the Club for Growth, another conservative group that campaigned heavily on behalf of Mr. Hoffman, said the organization was now considering issuing endorsements in contested Senate and House Republican races in New Hampshire, Florida, Kentucky and California. 
 Former Speaker Newt Gingrich, who had endorsed the moderate Republican in the New York race, said the opportunity suggested by the results in New Jersey and Virginia should be an impetus to resolve tensions.
 ''I think the conservative movement and the Republican leadership can pretty rapidly come to an agreement that defeating Pelosi in 2010 and Obama in 2012 is worth sorting things out for,'' Mr. Gingrich said.
 Mr. Gingrich said that throughout history, political leaders had emerged to steer parties to power by reconciling competing factions. Asked which Republicans had the stature to do so now, he replied: ''That will happen. Or it will not.''
 Mr. Steele said he hoped that the party would be able to skirt further divisive battles.
 ''You know what the reality is?'' he said. ''This is healthy, in that it exposes fault lines that we can learn to avoid.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Republican national chairman, Michael Steele, said victories in New Jersey and Virginia should help relieve divisions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.A28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CONSERVATISM (91%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); GOVERNORS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (63%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (63%)

PERSON: MICHAEL STEELE (79%); ERIC CANTOR (59%); JON CORZINE (59%); SARAH PALIN (59%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); GLENN BECK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



156 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 601 words

PERSON: Michael Ronis 

HEADLINE: Michael Ronis, 60, Manhattan Chef

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Michael Ronis, who helped conceive Carmine's, an Italian restaurant that lures masses of New Yorkers and out-of-towners to Times Square and the Upper West Side with gargantuan portions and moderate prices, died last Thursday in Greenwich, Conn. He was 60 and lived in Stamford. 
 The cause was brain cancer, his wife, Elle Ronis, said. 
 Carmine's was the brainchild of Arthur Cutler, who asked Mr. Ronis, who had previously worked with him, to come up with a menu and concept reminiscent of Dominick's, a famed Italian restaurant in the Bronx. 
 The idea they reached was to serve every meal in the style of an Italian wedding feast, offering piles of spaghetti and meatballs and other Italian-American standards in a nostalgic environment.
 As for the menu, the distinctiveness they sought is suggested by their early attempts to develop what became Carmine's best-selling chicken dish, chicken scarpariello.
 ''Michael, it needs to be 'Carmineized,' '' Mr. Cutler insisted, coining a new word. So Mr. Ronis accentuated tastes and worked on the marinade to boost flavors. 
 Carmine's first location opened in 1990 on Broadway near 91st Street, and its medium-budget fare struck a responsive chord during a lingering recession. Two years later a second branch opened on 44th Street west of Broadway, and its popularity only increased as Times Square rebounded.
 An outpost followed in Atlantic City, and another at the Atlantis Resort in the Bahamas. The concept was widely imitated in New York and other cities. 
 Carmine's is noted for churning out food in great quantity, but Mr. Ronis kept the process individualized, requiring that no pasta be cooked until an order was placed.
 The result, the chef Drew Nieporent said, was that Mr. Ronis ''made a lot of people happy.'' In an interview on Monday, Mr. Nieporent, the proprietor of Nobu and TriBeCa Grill, said that Mr. Ronis ''very quietly, in his own way, made a big impact on our industry.''
 Michael Ronis was born on July 31, 1949, in Norma, N.J., and grew up on a farm. In an interview in 2007 with The Daily Journal of Vineland, N.J., he said that he concocted his first original recipe, for cheese steaks, at 11 or 12, and that his family loved it. He later picked up cooking experience in England, Italy, California and New York.
 He joined with Mr. Cutler, a real estate expert who was the majority investor, and Godfrey Polistina, who became the manager of the front part of Carmine's, while Mr. Ronis ruled the kitchen. Other participants included Barry Corwin and Howard Levine.
 At a rehearsal for the opening in 1990, one patron, Elle Libman, tasted the Caesar salad and, as she recalled in an interview on Monday, turned to a tablemate and remarked that she wanted to marry its creator. She did, four years later.
 In addition to his wife, Mr. Ronis is survived by two sisters, Shelly Ronis Ross and Susan Ronis. 
 Mr. Ronis became executive chef for the Alicart Restaurant Group, which owns Carmine's and other restaurants. He traveled with Mr. Cutler and others for six weeks through the South to gather inspirations to open Virgil's Real BBQ, a barbecue restaurant on 44th Street near Times Square. It opened in 1994, with Mr. Ronis as founding chef, and it became a big draw.
 In 2008 St. Martin's Press published ''Carmine's Family-Style Cookbook: More Than 100 Classic Italian Dishes to Make at Home,'' written by Mr. Ronis with Mary Goodbody, a food writer and editor. In writing that book, he reversed the partners' vow never to share Carmine's secrets.
 ''After many, many years, we feel we own this market,'' Mr. Ronis said. 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 6, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Thursday about Michael Ronis, who helped conceive the Manhattan restaurant Carmine's, misstated the profession of Drew Nieporent, who said Mr. Ronis ''made a big impact on our industry.'' While he is indeed a restaurateur, he is not a chef.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael Ronis (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX MARTINEZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); RESTAURANTS (90%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); BRAIN CANCER (57%); CANCER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); BAHAMAS (78%); ENGLAND (51%)

CATEGORY: Food and Restaurants

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



157 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1711 words

HEADLINE: Home, Alone

BYLINE: By PENELOPE GREEN

 BODY:
WELCOME to home interrupted, Leslie Williams said, opening the door to what appeared to be just the opposite: a bright TriBeCa loft with near-lapidary finishes.
 A slight, blue-jean clad figure, Ms. Williams padded barefoot past the smoky green onyx panel and the Venetian plastered walls in the front hall, where old-fashioned filament bulbs hung like giant fireflies from the ceiling. There were 19th-century wallpapers and 60's era fixtures designed by Arne Jacobsen, hand-made beech kitchen cabinets and pickled maple floors, and a 14-foot ash table that marched alongside a white-washed brick wall.
 It was the kind of place many New Yorkers dream about, the sort of impossibly beautiful apartment movie directors cast as home for ''arty'' characters who would more likely be living in a cold-water collective in Bushwick in the real world. 
 For a time, it was Ms. Williams's dream home. She and her husband, both of whom are in television production, moved in two days before Christmas in 2007 after a renovation, at the time not yet complete, that had already taken about a year. 
 Two weeks later, Ms. Williams's husband moved out. He was done, he told his wife, with the renovation, and the marriage. 
 Perhaps there were unseen fissures in the marriage that the stress of the renovation cracked wide open; perhaps the 14-year relationship had run its course. Whatever Tolstoyan truth Ms. Williams and her husband embodied is not the subject of this story. (He has asked not to be mentioned by name.)
 This tale begins with Ms. Williams, alone in a nearly finished loft with 200 cardboard boxes. For it fell to her to finish the apartment by herself, gussying it up for sale so it could be someone else's dream home. And as universal as Ms. Williams's experience may be -- Harriet N. Cohen, a Manhattan matrimonial lawyer, calls it ''the renovation divorce'' -- its resolution is unique.
 First, the apartment sold for not too much less than the asking price of $2.6 million, even in the lousy market over the summer, going into contract after a few weeks. (By contrast, Ms. Cohen told of gruesome scenarios ramped up by the tanking economy: one divorcing couple, who lost their jobs in the midst of the proceedings, are stuck, she said, with ''the marvelous apartment that won't sell, and the bank is foreclosing and the co-op is evicting''; in another instance, one spouse is buying out the other at the appraiser's valuation, which is considerably less than the amount they invested to buy and renovate it.)
 More important, as rueful and regretful as Ms. Williams, 53, still feels, she is on balance hopeful about the new life that has been afforded her. 
 ''I've put a lot of my life in a box to be married,'' she said. ''I'm taking the box down. I'm going to India. I want to go to Egypt.''
 ''It was nice to be here once it was all fixed up,'' she admitted. ''A tiny piece of me wishes I could stay here forever. But as my mother said, 'A house is only four walls. You can't tear your heart out.' ''
 THREE years ago, Ms. Williams, her husband and her daughter from a previous marriage, Quincy Kevan, who is now a college senior, were living in a rental loft in the West Village. When the landlord wanted their place for someone else, they looked for a place to buy. It was an opportunity, Ms. Williams said, to put their stamp on a home. 
 What would it look like and feel like to design a place from scratch?
 Ms. Williams, whose first job in television was as a wardrobe and personal assistant to Pee-wee Herman, had been collecting objects for years -- like huge globe light fixtures from Laurel, a '60s-era manufacturer. ''She's a great collaborator and had all these great ideas,'' said Laura Gottwald, who designed the TriBeCa loft with the architects Maria Ibanez and Todd Ruhe.
 ''The architects made this beautiful plan,'' continued Ms. Gottwald, an interior and furniture designer, describing bedrooms built a step up from the common areas, with sliding doors made from different materials. ''It was about exploring ideas about what it means to be a family, or how a family changes, what's public, what's private. It was almost like a Case Study house, in that it examined how people really want to live now.'' 
 They had seen about 50 places, Ms. Williams said, before they found ''this hippy haven'' on North Moore Street. ''There was a wooden hot tub on a platform -- everything smelled like chlorine. There was lattice everywhere, a huge mahogany bar.''
 It was goofy, she added, ''but it had a really good vibe. You could tell it was a place where people had been happy. It just needed the layers stripped away.'' 
 It was 2,100 square feet, and they bought it for $2.12 million, at the top of the market. Unfortunately, others in the building were moving in as well, and at the point Ms. Williams and her husband began their renovation, which ended up costing about $500,000 (at least 20 percent more than they had budgeted), so did two other new owners.
 ''It was horrible,'' Ms. Williams said. ''It was very traumatic. The stars had aligned for a huge explosion.'' 
 The money was pouring out, she said, but worse, for her, was the physical chaos. Because the building was old and tiny -- a '70s-era co-op with few residents, no real construction rules at that point and a minuscule elevator -- and because there were three renovations happening at once, the building, and its residents, began to show the strain. ''Everybody in the building was mad and rightly so, and it really started to feel out of control,'' said Ms. Williams, who was becoming more and more agitated. A turning point was the day she walked in and discovered a construction worker urinating in her daughter's bathtub. 
 ''I freaked out,'' she said, while her husband became ''more and more quiet. It's hard to know what was going on for him. It got to the point where he'd say, 'Let's go down and take a look at the work,' and I couldn't. I almost felt like I wasn't going to be able to live there.''
 Her husband, she has since deduced, interpreted her agitation as unwillingness to participate in the project. ''My way of handling it was running for cover,'' she said. ''His way was to get in there and push through. It seemed like a good pairing, but there was a lot of emotion and the move was horrible and we were both beaten up by the process. All of a sudden he stopped talking. Somewhere along the way he made a decision, but I didn't know it was in the works.''
 When he left, she remembers him saying, ''If we hurry, we can get this done in three weeks.'' He was not referring to the renovation.
 After that, communication was terse, conducted through e-mail, and concerned money only. 
 All that winter, Ms. Williams dug in at work, which was her haven in a way the apartment -- not yet a ''home'' -- could not be. Construction was ongoing, and she still owned the loft with her husband. (The maintenance and mortgage were too high for either Ms. Williams or her husband to carry alone, she said, and she had asked her husband to wait until Quincy finished her junior year of college before putting the place on the market.) 
 At 7:30 most mornings, ''three guys and their lunch would appear, and there's me and my nightgown.'' She'd put in a 10- or 12-hour-day at her job as an associate director on the ''Rachel Ray'' show, come home, sidle around the boxes, hold the dog (Ruby, a 7-year-old Yorkie) and watch ''Law & Order.'' 
 There were tears, but only at home. She told no one at work, or in the building, about her separation.
 ''It's embarrassing when your husband dumps you,'' she said. ''It's shameful. You wonder if you are as bad as they think you are.''
 Five months went by. It wasn't until Quincy was due back from college in May 2008 that Ms. Williams roused herself with a marathon of unpacking, though she kept a ''giant island'' of boxes by the windows. 
 By Thanksgiving, she had fully rallied. There were 22 for dinner, including her mother, Quincy and Quincy's father, and college students Ms. Williams had been mentoring. The still-unopened boxes by the window were covered in a white tablecloth and made a pretty nice bar, she said. It was the first time anyone had sat at the long table, and in Ms. Williams's mind, it exorcized the bad feelings that had blanketed her. 
 ''It was a good way to say, 'O.K., this place is for human beings,' '' she said. 
 By spring, the loft was finished, and in June, she called Richard Orenstein, a Halstead broker, who has made a specialty of TriBeCa real estate. ''I said, 'I've been watching your career. My husband and I are splitting. It's been horrible, but I have a really amazing space and I need to have it shown by someone with good taste.' ''
 Mr. Orenstein wasn't fazed. ''Divorce is as old as the hills,'' he said, and in real estate, it's a constant. 
 ''It can be very acrimonious. Sometimes couples use the broker to get back at each other,'' he continued. ''This was different. They are both realists and they wanted to get the place sold for the best price possible in a tough market.''
 Which it did. Next month, a young couple will move in, which Ms. Williams feels is a nice resolution. ''I'm trying to do everything right, so when they move in it will be positive,'' she said. ''If I can do that, then it's good for me.'' 
 Her own plans are not finalized, but she is circling in on two rental apartments, where she would have a friend on the same floor. 
 ''I have a lot of regrets,'' she said, explaining that the renovation brought out the most basic differences between herself and her husband -- their ideas about money, their long-term goals, all the big stuff.
 ''I regret that we bought the apartment and tackled such a big project when clearly our relationship needed to be attended to. I regret that I wasn't better at handling the stress of the renovation and at not taking my stress out on my husband. I regret not being better at handling the money part of the renovation.''
 Still, she is looking forward. Maybe in a year or so, she'll find a place in Brooklyn, a house she can do on a budget, with friends; a place where her mother could live too, with room for a garden.
 ''I'm thinking, 'commune,' and I'm ready,'' she said. ''Let's go!'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 12, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article last Thursday, about the renovation of a TriBeCa loft and the subsequent divorce of the couple who owned it, misspelled the surname of one of the project's architects. He is Todd Rouhe, not Ruhe.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PARADISE LOST: Leslie Williams is the only one sleeping in this sleek TriBeCa loft, which was designed for a family of three. (pg.D1)
ON HER WAY: Leslie Williams recently sold the now-pristine, exhaustively renovated TriBeCa loft, once a ''hippy haven'' with a hot tub, that she envisioned as a dream home for herself and her husband.
 OPEN AND SHUT: Rooms were designed with sliding panels to accommodate a family of three. ''It was about how a family changes, what's public, what's private,'' said Laura Gottwald, who designed the finishes and the light fixtures, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (88%); MARRIAGE (87%); FORECLOSURE (78%); EVICTION (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (74%); FAMILY LAW (72%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (69%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (66%); FILM DIRECTORS (54%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (52%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



158 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: J.P. Morgan Settles Alabama Bribery Case

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH; Kyle Whitmire contributed reporting.

 BODY:
J. P. Morgan Securities will forfeit hundreds of millions of dollars in fees on derivatives contracts that it sold an Alabama county, under a settlement announced Wednesday that could offer hope to other governments staggering under similar deals. 
 The Securities and Exchange Commission charged in a lawsuit on Wednesday that J. P. Morgan had made unlawful payments to friends of Jefferson County's commissioners in a scheme to win lucrative business from the county to sell bonds and trade in derivatives.
 The lawsuit also named two former J. P. Morgan employees. One of those men has already served a short prison term for manipulating similar bond deals in Philadelphia. 
 To settle the lawsuit, J. P. Morgan will drop its claims for $647 million in termination fees it had been trying to make Jefferson County pay on the derivatives. The settlement also calls for J. P. Morgan to pay a $25 million penalty to the commission and $50 million to the county. 
 Over the last decade, thousands of governments around the country entered into deals linking bonds with derivatives, forming complex structures that were supposed to hold down borrowing costs. Many of the deals did not work out the way officials expected them to, partly because financial markets froze last fall and partly because interest rates moved sharply in unexpected directions. 
 But not every local government can count on relief just because a financial mistake was made. The Jefferson County case involved clear-cut bribes and a criminal conviction, and other governments may be hard pressed to persuade their bankers to change their financial contracts unless they can show laws were broken. 
 The S.E.C. says the definition of improper activity varies by state, and it is pressing for a uniform federal standard. 
 Municipalities have another vexing problem as well. If they complain to their bankers about illegal activity in connection with a bond sale, the federal government could find that tax laws were violated, jeopardizing the important tax-exempt status of a town's municipal bonds. 
 No other place has had problems on the scale of Jefferson County, the most populous county in Alabama. It has been sinking under a $3 billion debt burden for several years, and the hundreds of millions of dollars in fees it owed J. P. Morgan on the derivatives compounded the problem. The county has made drastic cuts in services and has warned for months that it might have to declare bankruptcy. 
 The S.E.C. did not point to anything improper about Jefferson County's bonds, its derivatives, or with the once-popular concept of linking the two. Its complaint focused solely on what it called unlawful activity in J. P. Morgan's efforts to win the business. 
 It said the two former bank employees, Charles LeCroy and Douglas MacFaddin, had arranged for illegal payments of more than $8 million to friends of the county commissioners, who then worked to make sure the commissioners voted to give J. P. Morgan contracts to underwrite the county's bonds and provide the derivatives, known as interest-rate swaps.
 A lawyer for Mr. LeCroy, Lisa Mathewson, said the S.E.C. had overstepped its jurisdiction and labeled permissible business practices as fraudulent.
 A lawyer for Mr. MacFaddin, Richard F. Lawler, said his client denied violating any securities laws and believed he would be vindicated at trial. 
 The former County Commission president, Larry Langford, was convicted last week of accepting luxury gifts and cash totaling $235,000 in connection with the scheme. He was serving as mayor of Birmingham, Ala., Jefferson County's largest city, but was automatically removed when he was convicted. The two former bank employees did not settle with the S.E.C. The suit said that J. P. Morgan passed the cost of the illegal payments to the county by charging above-market prices on the interest-rate swaps. 
 J. P. Morgan did not admit or deny any of the government's accusations. It said in a statement that it had discontinued its business of trading in derivatives with states and local governments. It also pointed out that the settlement did not impair any of Jefferson County's bonds. 
 ''J. P. Morgan continues to work to achieve a responsible restructuring of Jefferson County's financial affairs,'' the bank said. 
 In Jefferson County, word of nearly $650 million worth of debt forgiveness was not met with universal rejoicing. One former financial adviser to the county, Jim White, said the bank's forfeiture was not nearly enough to end the county's financial troubles.
 Dropping the fees ''has no practical consequence to Jefferson County, as there was no possible way the county could pay them,'' he said. As to J. P. Morgan, ''I am morally certain that they wrote those termination fees off 18 months ago, since the claim is subordinate to $3.2 billion of debt.'' 
 The county will still have to honor the payment schedule on that debt, which financed a sewer project. The bonds were of the type known as auction-rate securities, whose interest rates reset regularly and shot up during last year's financial turmoil. 
 Jefferson County embarked on the sewer project after its existing sewer system was condemned by the federal government. It had to raise a lot of money quickly, and was told it could save on the borrowing costs if it sold bonds with a floating rate. The interest-rate swaps were intended to provide a hedge in case interest rates rose. But interest rates fell sharply, making the hedge worthless to the county, despite all the high costs attached to it. 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 6, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Thursday with an article about J.P. Morgan Securities' settlement of a bribery case involving derivatives contracts misidentified, in some copies, the state in which Larry Langford, who was convicted in the case, served as mayor of Birmingham. It was Alabama, not North Carolina. (There is no Birmingham, N.C.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Larry Langford, a former Birmingham, Ala., mayor, was convicted. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DUSTY COMPTON/TUSCALOOSA NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (91%); BRIBERY (90%); COUNTIES (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); LITIGATION (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); BONDS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%); TAX LAW (69%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (58%) ALABAMA, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



159 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: Credit Card Bill Wipes Out Investor Optimism

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average erased almost all of a 156-point rally after the House of Representatives passed a bill to curb rate increases on credit cards, touching off concern about bank earnings. The news outweighed investor optimism after the Federal Reserve said it planned to keep interest rates at a record low. 
 ''Businesses are still cutting back on fixed investment and staffing, though at a slower pace,'' the Federal Open Market Committee said in a statement on Wednesday after meeting in Washington. ''Activity in the housing sector has increased over recent months.''
 Gold surged, settling at $1,092.20 an ounce, after the Fed announcement. The dollar, meanwhile, slipped as much as 1 percent against a basket of six currencies.
 This year, gold has soared 24 percent, heading for a ninth annual gain, as the dollar fell 6.8 percent. Gold has climbed on speculation that central banks and investors will buy more metal to hedge against a falling dollar. India's central bank said this week that it bought 200 metric tons of gold from the International Monetary Fund last month. 
 ''With interest rates so low, money is seeking markets that have an upside,'' said Leonard Kaplan, the president of Prospector Asset Management in Evanston, Ill. ''Momentum is crucial, and gold has a lot of momentum.''
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index wiped out most of a 1.5 percent rally that began after the Fed said it would leave interest rates at ''exceptionally low'' levels for an extended period.
 ''If you're going to limit how much banks could charge in their credit cards, that's going to limit profits,'' said Art Hogan, the chief market analyst at Jefferies & Company. ''So it's certainly another source of pressure.''
 At the end of the day, the S.& P. 500 added 0.1 percent, or 1.09 points, to 1,046.5. The Dow increased 30.23 points, or 0.3 percent, to 9,802.14. About five stocks fell for every four that rose on the New York Stock Exchange.
 Wells Fargo, JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup led financial shares to the steepest loss among 10 industries. The House legislation would move up the start date of many rule changes that will make it more difficult for banks to increase rates on credit cards. 
 The S.& P. 500 rallied in morning trading after the Institute for Supply Management's report on nonmanufacturing businesses showed 1.4 percent growth in new orders and a 2 percent increase in the backlog of orders. The main index in the report fell to 50.6, below analysts' estimates but still signaling growth.
 Some traders may have sold shares in anticipation of the Friday report on the job market in the United States. Economists on average are estimating that the unemployment rate increased to 9.9 percent in October, according to a Bloomberg survey.
 The Treasury's 10-year note fell 16/32, to 100 26/32. The yield rose 3.52 percent, from 3.47 percent late Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: THE DOW MINUTE BY MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); NEW ORDERS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (74%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); JEFFERIES & CO INC (65%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (61%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



160 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 317 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Service Sector Grew in October

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The United States service sector continued to grow in October, for the second consecutive month, though its pace eased a bit from September, according to a report released Wednesday.
 The Institute for Supply Management's services index was 50.6, compared to 50.9 in September. That was below economists' median forecast for a rise to 51.5, but still above 50, which is the dividing line between growth and contraction. 
 The services sector represents about 80 percent of the nation's economic activity, including businesses such as banks, airlines, hotels and restaurants. 
 The growth in the services sector came as a private firm reported that American companies reduced jobs in October at the slowest pace in more than a year, suggesting some stabilization in the labor market as the economy emerges from recession.
 The report, from the private firm ADP Employer Services, showed that private employers in the United States shed 203,000 jobs in October, fewer than a revised 227,000 jobs lost in September.
 The September fall was originally reported at 254,000.
 The median of estimates from economists surveyed by Reuters for the ADP report, jointly developed with Macroeconomic Advisers, was a decline of 190,000 private-sector jobs last month.
 The October private job loss was the smallest since July 2008.
 The ADP figures are seen by some analysts as a proxy for the government's closely watched report on nonfarm payrolls. Analysts polled recently by Reuters projected that United States payrolls most likely shrank by 175,000 in October, compared with a 263,000 decline in September.
 Economists do not expect job growth to take place until 2010.
 Still, the pace of private job losses has slowed since the 736,000 drop in March, according to ADP data.
 Earlier, a separate report showed planned layoffs by American companies in October slowed for a third consecutive month to a 19-month low.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); SERVICE SECTOR OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); DISMISSALS (74%); RESTAURANTS (73%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INC (84%)

TICKER: ADP (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (84%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



161 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: Questions on Accuracy Delay Much-Awaited F.H.A. Audit

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
A much-anticipated audit of the Federal Housing Administration was abruptly postponed just before it was supposed to be made public, after questions arose about its accuracy.
 The auditor, Integrated Financial Engineering, said it notified the F.H.A. late Tuesday that its computer models were creating unexplained inconsistencies. A news conference scheduled for Wednesday morning was canceled. 
 The delay came amid broad public concern about the financial condition of the F.H.A., and appeared likely to add to questions about whether the agency is running excessive risks with taxpayers' money.
 The annual audit calculates the solvency of the agency's insurance fund under a range of possible economic assumptions. F.H.A. officials have insisted that even in a worst case, where home prices continue to fall and many more F.H.A.-insured loans go into foreclosure, the agency will not need a taxpayer bailout.
 Spokesmen for the F.H.A. and Integrated Financial said it was not clear whether there would be changes in the report's conclusions. ''We are still analyzing,'' said Barry Dennis, Integrated Financial's president. 
 In the last year, the F.H.A. has insured nearly two million purchases and refinancings of single-family homes, a 62 percent jump from the previous year. The agency credits itself with keeping the housing market alive, but critics wonder about the long-range cost. The delinquency rate on F.H.A. loans was 14 percent in the second quarter.
 This year's financial report was the focus of particular attention because agency officials had already said the insurance fund's reserves would, for the first time, fall below a Congressionally mandated minimum of 2 percent.
 Integrated Financial took credit on Wednesday for discovering the problems before turning a final report over to the F.H.A. But in the F.H.A.'s version of events, it discovered the problems after asking that additional economic assumptions be included in this year's report.
 Neither party would spell out exactly what seemed incorrect about the models. No new date for the report's release was announced.
 Integrated Financial, of Rockville, Md., describes itself as ''highly skilled'' at financial modeling. Among its clients, other than the F.H.A., are Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, two huge housing agencies that required taxpayer bailouts during the financial crisis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); AUDITS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (88%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); FORECLOSURE (74%); HOME PRICES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



162 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: Democrats in Congress See Election as Giving New Urgency to Their Agenda

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Blaming election setbacks on a drop in voter enthusiasm, Congressional Democrats said Wednesday that losses in governors' races in Virginia and New Jersey -- and a striking House win in New York -- should give new urgency to their legislative agenda, including a sweeping health care overhaul.
 As they assessed the results, Democratic lawmakers and party strategists said their judgment was that voters remained very uneasy about the economy and did not see Democrats producing on the health, energy and national security changes they promised when voters swept them to power only a year ago. 
 ''Most of us ran on that,'' said Representative Gerald E. Connolly, Democrat of Virginia and president of the party's freshman class. ''We must deliver. I need to give Democrats something to be excited about.''
 Democrats still face the political dilemma that has dogged their health care efforts this year and will continue to face tough choices as they take up issues like curbing global warming. Should they concentrate on motivating their core supporters, many of whom appeared to stay away from the polls in New Jersey and Virginia, by taking a more liberal approach, for example by embracing a public health insurance option?
 Or do they try to write health, energy and fiscal policies that can attract independents, who broke for Republicans in Tuesday's voting, in order to protect more moderate Democrats in conservative districts where spending and the rising debt are top worries?
 ''We have to do something, but it has to be right,'' said Representative Frank Kratovil Jr., a first-term Maryland Democrat who won his seat away from a Republican last year. ''My biggest concern is cost. The impact on the deficit is a real problem.''
 Republicans portrayed the election outcome as a repudiation of Democratic policies and predicted significant Congressional gains next year despite Tuesday's embarrassing loss in a longtime House Republican stronghold in upstate New York.
 ''If we can continue to stand on principle and oppose these liberal policies and show the American people that we have better solutions that are common sense solutions, we are going to do fine,'' Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the Republican leader, said. He predicted that the Democratic rank-and-file, fearing for their political futures, would press its leadership to rethink the party's direction.
 Yet several Democratic lawmakers said the election could have the opposite result and spur Democrats on in an effort to recapture the coalition of young, minority, urban and suburban Democrats and independents who were central to the 2008 election victories. 
 ''I think the issues of health care and energy independence are important issues the president has outlined early on, and those are issues we ought to focus on,'' said Representative Allen Boyd, a centrist Florida Democrat. 
 From a purely Congressional perspective, Tuesday was a positive night for Democrats as they retained a California seat in a special election and picked up the seat in upstate New York partly as a result of a Republican Party feud. The winner of that race, Bill Owens, has already assured Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California that he will support the party health care proposal that could reach the floor this weekend, aides said.
 Mr. Owens and John Garamendi, a California Democrat who won a House seat in the Bay Area vacated by a Democrat, could be sworn in as early as Thursday, bringing the party breakdown in the House to 258 to 177 in favor of Democrats, a net increase of one.
 ''This was a victory for health care reform,'' Ms. Pelosi said. ''From our standpoint, we picked up votes last night.''
 While not discounting the Republican wins in Virginia and New Jersey, Democrats said the New York and California House races were the only contests that centered on Congressional issues and Democrats won both despite months of Republican attacks on the legislative priorities of President Obama and Congressional Democrats.
 ''The governors of Virginia and New Jersey don't have a vote on the Obama agenda,'' said Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.
 Yet there were ominous signs for Congressional Democrats in the results, notably in Virginia, where Democrats picked up three Republican seats last year and acknowledge that they will have difficulty holding on to them. Republicans noted that in two of those freshman districts, the Republican victor for governor, Robert F. McDonnell, won by a more than 20-point margin.
 ''The election in New York may provide a momentary victory for Democrats, but the results in two gubernatorial contests tell us more about what 2010 holds in store for the party in power,'' said Representative Pete Sessions of Texas, the chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee.
 In the Senate, some Democrats said the voting on Tuesday was likely to give some lawmakers from more conservative parts of the country further pause in considering how to vote on health care. But Democrats in both chambers said that their views on how to vote on the issue were being shaped by multiple factors and that the election results would play little role.
 ''My decision is based on the substance of the bill and how it affects my constituents and nothing else,'' said Mr. Boyd, the Florida Democrat.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Gerald E. Connolly of Virginia, a freshman Democrat, said, ''We must deliver.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); GLOBAL WARMING (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%)

PERSON: GERRY CONNOLLY (73%); ALLEN BOYD (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); BARNEY FRANK (58%); FRANK KRATOVIL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



163 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: Finally, an Authentic G.O.P.

BYLINE: By ALEX CASTELLANOS. 
Alex Castellanos is a Republican political strategist.

DATELINE: Alexandria, Va. 

 BODY:
 DID Republicans win so many of the elections on Tuesday because of their conservative base or because they went beyond it? The answer to both questions is yes. 
 In some places in 2009 it was enough to not be a Democrat, just as it was sufficient for Barack Obama to be an alternative to President George W. Bush in 2008. In Greensboro, N.C., an unknown 70-year-old conservative who has never held elective office beat the incumbent mayor, the first such defeat there since 1973. Message to Republicans: When only 20 percent of Americans self-identify as Republicans, it is not our brand voters are buying. It's the other guy's brand they are rejecting. 
 Republicans won, fundamentally, because President Obama and the Democratic leadership in Washington have rebranded themselves as the party of economic irresponsibility. In New Jersey, where the Republican, Chris Christie, won the governorship, 57 percent of voters said the economy and taxes were the top issues. In Virginia 60 percent said the same -- and Bob McDonnell, the Republican governor-elect, won economic voters by 15 percentage points. As my friend James Carville might now say, ''It's the economy, again, stupid.'' 
 While the conservative base was energized yesterday -- conservative turnout was up 7 percent in Virginia and 5 percent in New Jersey from 2008 -- something else took Republican candidates across the finish line: They remembered that their principles were good for more than saying no. Republicans won't find a more conservative candidate than Bob McDonnell if they draw lots from National Review's subscription list. He didn't abandon or ''moderate'' his principles to win the middle. Instead, he complemented them with an optimistic, populist vision of economic success. 
 Mr. McDonnell offered suburban voters, working women and independents a better way to increase jobs and expand the economy, from the bottom up. It was a stark contrast to what Americans are seeing in Washington, where elitist Democratic politicians, in bed with the Wall Street establishment, are taking Americans' tax dollars away to invest in arrogant, top-down public-sector schemes. This helped Mr. McDonnell forge a powerful coalition involving not just independents but also young voters; he won the under-30 vote by 10 percent. Thanks for the opportunity, President Obama. On Tuesday, Nov. 4, in Virginia a New Republican Party was born. See you in 2010.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICS (78%); MAYORS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); BRANDING (69%); WOMEN (68%); WOMEN WORKERS (62%); SUBURBS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENSBORO, NC, USA (72%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



164 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 U.S. OFFICIAL IN MYANMAR MEETS WITH TOP DISSIDENT
 The highest-ranking American official to hold substantive talks in Myanmar in more than a decade said relations between the nations would improve if the government reconciled with democratic dissidents. PAGE A6 
 RIVAL CRITICIZES KARZAI WIN 
 The former presidential candidate Abdullah Abdullah denounced President Hamid Karzai's new administration as illegal. PAGE A12 
 U.N. DEBATES GAZA INQUIRY
 The General Assembly is preparing to approve a resolution that would endorse a United Nations report calling on both Israel and the Palestinian Authority to investigate possible war crimes in the Gaza strip within three months. PAGE A13 
 RUSSIAN NATIONALISTS HELD
 Two former members of Russian National Unity, a neo-fascist group, have been arrested in the killings of a human rights lawyer and a reporter. PAGE A13 
 National
 SENATE VOTES TO EXTEND UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
 The Senate's 98-to-0 vote to extend up to 20 weeks of additional unemployment benefits belied partisan divisiveness that caused weeks of delay in which hundreds of thousands of Americans exhausted their aid. PAGE A22 
 CALIFORNIA WATER OVERHAUL
 California lawmakers approved bills that call for new dams, aggressive new conservation goals and other measures. PAGE A16 
 New York
 LOOKING BACK 
 At the Election of 2009
 The mayoral election of 2009 produced the lowest turnout since 1917, and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's record personal investment of about $100 million in his re-election campaign means a third term cost him about $200 a vote. PAGE A29
 Business
 FED SIGNALS A RATE INCREASE
 Is Far Away
 The Federal Reserve signaled it was not close to raising interest rates, saying that the economy remained weak even though the recession appeared to be over. The central bank said it would keep its benchmark interest rate at virtually zero. PAGE B1
 COSTS SURGE FOR DEVICES
 As Congress seeks to revamp the nation's health care system, medical devices might seem an inviting target to better control Medicare spending. But some experts say that the pending legislation may not help because the proposals do not require device makers to compete on product performance and price. PAGE B1
 HOUSE APPROVES REGULATIONS
 A House committee approved a bill its supporters say would provide greater protection to investors, and added a provision to ease new auditing standards for small and medium-sized companies. Meanwhile, the full House overwhelmingly passed a bill to accelerate restrictions on credit card companies that President Obama signed into law last May. PAGE B3
 Arts
 FOR THRILLERS, GLENN BECK 
 Is Becoming the New Oprah
 At a time when the book industry is struggling, an endorsement from Glenn Beck, the outspoken media darling of populist conservatism, goes a long way to attract new readers. PAGE C1
 In the Footsteps of Levi-Strauss C1
 Sports
 MARTINEZ HAS PROVED TOUGH 
 In Elimination Games
 When Pedro Martinez took the mound on Wednesday night at Yankee Stadium, it was the sixth time he was pitching in a postseason game in which a loss would eliminate his team, the Phillies. In four of the five previous games, his team survived. PAGE B16
 PROBLEMS FOR PLAYERS UNION
 The N.H.L. Players Association is facing an uncertain future after another round of upheaval with the resignation of its interim director, outside counsel and six-member advisory board. PAGE B13
 Toyota Pulls Out of F1 B13
 Home
 GETTING REAL
 About Home Prices
 By using online resources, investigating neighborhood trends, consulting real estate experts and perhaps even asking the opinions of brutally honest friends, homeowners can arrive at a reasonably accurate appraisal, even in these uncertain times. PAGE D1 
 The Renovation Divorce D1
 Styles
 RECESSION PUSHES VERSACE
 To Rethink Its Approach
 Is there a future for relatively small, privately owned fashion houses like Versace in an industry dominated by multinationals like LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton? PAGE E1
 Actor, and Serious Cyclist E10 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); RANKINGS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); MAYORS (77%); MEDICARE (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); HEALTH CARE (76%); RECESSION (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); LAWYERS (71%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); AUDITS (70%); WAR CRIMES (70%); ARRESTS (70%); HOMICIDE (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (68%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (67%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%); CREDIT CARDS (63%); MEDICAL DEVICES (62%); ACCOUNTING (60%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (50%)

COMPANY: LEVI STRAUSS & CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (50%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (72%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%); GLENN BECK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) MYANMAR (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



165 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: Fed Signals A Rate Rise Is Far Away

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve signaled on Wednesday it was not close to raising interest rates, saying that the economy remained weak even though the recession appeared to be over.
 The central bank said it would keep its benchmark interest rate at virtually zero, and it made no change to its longstanding mantra that economic conditions were likely to warrant ''exceptionally low'' rates for ''an extended period.''
 For practical purposes, analysts said, policy makers are still at least six months away from tightening monetary policy. 
 ''Economic activity has continued to pick up,'' the central bank said in a statement after its two-day policy meeting. But policy makers quickly cautioned consumer spending would be sluggish, businesses were still cutting back and economic growth would be ''weak for a time.''
 Despite speculation that the Fed might hint about raising interest rates in order to head off future inflation, it was unclear on Wednesday whether policy makers even discussed a change in the wording of their guidance. 
 Policy makers did elaborate on the economic indicators they will be watching most closely. Those will be the level of ''resource utilization,'' which primarily means the unemployment rate, the trend in inflation, and the stability of inflation expectations.
 The government estimated last week that the nation's economy grew at an annual pace of 3.5 percent in the third quarter, its first quarterly expansion in a year. But much of that activity stemmed from temporary stimulus measures like the home buyers' tax credit and the ''cash for clunkers'' program.
 The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, has cautioned that the recovery was fragile and that unemployment would remain high through the end of next year. The average forecast of Fed policy makers anticipates that the jobless rate, now 9.8 percent, will peak above 10 percent next year and remain well above 9 percent until some time in 2011. 
 Within the central bank, officials have begun debating when they should start signaling a rollback of its rescue measures. But while some of the Fed's more hawkish policy makers have publicly suggested it might soon be time for tighter policy, Mr. Bernanke and other officials have made it clear they thought unemployment and slow growth were still the main economic threats. 
 The central bank did make a tiny reduction in its effort to prop up the mortgage market. It said it would buy slightly fewer bonds issued by agencies that guarantee home loans -- $175 billion, rather than $200 billion it originally expected. But it said the change stemmed from a shortage of such securities. The Fed made no change to its much bigger program to buy $1.25 trillion worth of mortgage-backed securities by the end of next March.
 ''The one consistent theme with all the Fed speakers is that they're not going to raise rates any time soon,'' said Drew Matus, a senior economist at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch. ''That is the one consistent theme that gets hammered home time and again.''
 Beyond saying that ''economic conditions'' would continue to warrant ''exceptionally low'' rates, policy makers said those conditions included ''low rates of resource utilization,'' ''subdued inflation trends'' and ''stable inflation expectations.''
 Fed officials face competing challenges as they try to get monetary policy back to normal over the next several years. They need to make a judgment about timing -- tightening too early could send the economy back into a downturn, as happened during the late 1930s; waiting too long would set the stage for inflation. 
 But policy makers also want to avoid jolting financial markets, which will require them to communicate their plans in advance. They are also grappling with novel questions about their exit strategy. In their statement on Wednesday, Fed officials made it clear they were still seeing little risk of higher inflation, adding that ''substantial resource slack'' -- a euphemism for high unemployment and unused factory capacity -- would keep inflation ''subdued.''
 The Fed's preferred measure of inflation, which excludes prices of food and energy, has climbed by less than 1.5 percent over the last year, well within Mr. Bernanke's unofficial comfort range of 1 to 2 percent.
 The overnight Federal funds rate, the interest rate that banks charge for lending their reserves to each other, has been held between zero and 0.25 percent since last December. 
 In addition, the Fed has tried to pump up financial markets and the economy by more than doubling the size of its balance sheet, creating more than $1 trillion in new money for its emergency credit programs and to drive down long-term interest rates by buying Treasury bonds and mortgage-backed securities.
 Fed officials have already cut back some of their emergency loan programs and stopped buying Treasury bonds, and they have said they would soon stop buying mortgage securities.
 To tighten monetary policy, Fed officials will have to raise interest rates and start cutting the size of its balance sheet by selling the securities it has acquired.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A screen at the New York Stock Exchange delivered the word that the Fed was leaving the benchmark rate unchanged. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); TRENDS (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (64%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (63%); BOND ISSUES (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



166 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: The Off-Off-Year Elections

DATELINE: Tuesday's vote 

 BODY:
particularly the election of Republican governors in New Jersey and Virginia -- has produced heated predictions about the revived power of Republican social conservatism and the declining fortunes of Barack Obama and his 2008 coalition. 
 If there were broad messages in the grab bag of contests, they were for both parties: Voters remain fearful about the economy. Independent voters are a force to be reckoned with. And everyone wants results.
 In New York City, Mayor Michael Bloomberg narrowly won a third term. It is impossible to link that to President Obama -- who nominally endorsed the Democrat, William Thompson Jr., but left little doubt that his affection lay with the mayor. Mr. Bloomberg won on competence. Voters who said they cared most about experience and knowledge of the city's problems voted heavily for him. 
 The closeness of the race contained another message for Mr. Bloomberg: Tone down the arrogance. Voters who said they most valued a leader who understood them went overwhelmingly for Mr. Thompson. If the mayor wants to create a legacy of leadership to match his legacy of competence, he needs to be less imperious and listen more closely to his constituents. 
 Competence was also the issue in New Jersey. Gov. Jon Corzine, a Democrat, failed to deliver on the promise of his financial expertise and could not get even party loyalists to vote for him in sufficient numbers. Independents who were still more fed up with Mr. Corzine voted for the Republican, Christopher Christie, who won with just under 49 percent of the vote.
 That election was not about Mr. Obama, although he is probably regretting the three visits he made there. It certainly was not a referendum on Republican orthodoxy, since Mr. Christie did not run as a social conservative. And while Mr. Christie did run a traditional anti-tax campaign, most voters polled on the eve of the election said they did not know much about his views. 
 In Virginia, Republican Robert McDonnell also avoided trademark social conservative issues like abortion and same-sex marriage. His two main pledges were to create jobs and fix the public transportation system. He handily beat R. Creigh Deeds, even in the state's more Democratic and liberal precincts. 
 One race, a special election for the House of Representatives in upstate New York, did turn on an ideological divide -- but it was within the Republican Party. The party's leadership drove its candidate, Assemblywoman Dede Scozzafava, out of the race because she crossed the line on issues like abortion. The anointed conservative, Douglas Hoffman, then lost to the Democrat, Bill Owens.
 So what does this all mean for next year's election? Above all, it means that voters want their leaders to focus on sound policy making, not party orthodoxy. And the No. 1 issue in every poll is the economy.
 That means that Mr. Obama and Democrats in Congress should not draw the wrong conclusion and get timid about vital tasks like health care reform or more stimulus spending to ensure that any recovery also creates more jobs. At some point, they are going to have to bite the bullet and raise taxes to pay for all of this. 
 Mr. Christie and Mr. McDonnell, who promised to do more for their citizens, will also have to deliver. And we suspect that they are going to find it very hard do that and cut taxes. The voters are not in a forgiving mood.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); REFERENDUMS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (67%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (63%); GAYS & LESBIANS (61%); JOB CREATION (50%); MARRIAGE (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%); JON CORZINE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



167 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: The Political Map After the '09 Vote

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Bloomberg Wins 3rd Term in Tight Race; Christie Tops Corzine; Virginia Goes G.O.P.'' (front page, Nov. 4):
 One of the first bona fide tests of the popularity of the Obama administration came through this week's election of governors in the two populous states of New Jersey and Virginia. In electing Republican leaders in both states, voters dramatically and decisively put a shot across the bow to the White House, which it would behoove the president to take notice of and to heed. 
 Faced with the choice of expensive big government versus the promise of fiscal prudence, the electorate in these critical bellwether states chose fiscal prudence, delivering a clear message that they wish for the new Obama era of big government and entitlements to be reined in. 
 In the presidential election of 2008, New Jersey and Virginia were in Barack Obama's column. Their jump to install Republican governors so soon into the Obama presidency should serve as a reliable barometer of disapproval of the president's strategy to explode the deficit and the national debt, the harm from which will become apparent in the years to come as the nation tries to grapple with choking debt, resurgent inflation and tax increases to pay for the largess of today.
 If the president elects to ignore the cries of grass-roots voters in New Jersey and Virginia, he risks suffering a midterm electoral blood bath next year that would imperil any initiative he elects to pursue.
 Oren M. Spiegler Upper St. Clair, Pa., Nov. 4, 2009
 To the Editor:
 So it begins. The next few weeks will see the talking heads of TV, the Beltway mentioners and the pundits of print endlessly dissecting what the returns of Election 2009 portend for Election 2010. Best advice: Pay no attention. There is no way that Tuesday's mixed and scrawny returns have anything meaningful to say about what will or won't happen a year from now.
 A year from now, the nation either will or will not have a national health care system that will or will not be working successfully. It will either have more unemployment or less unemployment. It will be deeper in Afghanistan, or less involved; it will be visibly winning, or visibly losing, or something more opaque. And then there's Iraq. And Iran.
 All of those factors, and others we haven't even thought of, will control Election Night 2010. None of them can possibly be predicted from Tuesday's sparse returns.
 Ron Bonn San Diego, Nov. 4, 2009
 To the Editor:
 So much for the so-called historic Democratic realignment heralded by the election of Barack Obama. How quickly things change.
 Donald Lyman Jr. Wilmington, Mass., Nov. 4, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re ''A Year After Dousing, Republicans' Hope Is Rekindled'' (news analysis, Nov. 4):
 While the Republican wishful thinking may be believable in the short term, we must take this election, a remarkable one for an off-year election, in context with the two elections preceding this one, wherein the American people's voices, despite party affiliation, were heard.
 A trend is taking place, through activism and the polling booth, to make government officials understand that their office is about ''the people's business.'' Regrettably, officeholders have not understood this very simple concept too clearly. 
 The current presidential administration might take note that its existence is owed to a rejection of the outgoing administration's mistaken notion of political capital. 
 I see a new ''reactivism'' being awakened within a generation who invented activism as younger people over 40 years ago. President Lincoln was correct about not fooling all the people all the time. 
 John J. Murphy Jr. Wantagh, N.Y., Nov. 4, 2009
 To the Editor:
 President Obama wasn't on the ballot Tuesday in New Jersey or Virginia. These races were decided on local issues and on the strengths and weaknesses of the various campaigns and candidates. 
 Clearly, voters in New Jersey were ready for a change given the economic upheaval there and Jon S. Corzine's high unfavorability. And in Virginia, the Democrat R. Creigh Deeds's campaign was widely panned as ineffectual. 
 I fail to see how either contest can be a referendum on President Obama, especially when Democrats won a House seat in New York that's been in Republican hands since the 1800s.
 Casey Conley Portland, Me., Nov. 4, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Congratulations are in order for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg; now candidates are lining up to run for mayor of New York City in 2013. Here's a word of advice: the election will be won or lost in the battle over term limits that is certain to arise very shortly. 
 Politicians are crafty; the lesson they have learned is that the battle over term limits needs to be effected sooner rather than later in the election cycle. This abuse should be stopped A.S.A.P., and fair elections will finally be had by the citizens of New York. 
 It would also help to have mandatory public financing of all campaigns, thus preventing another election from being so blatantly bought.
 Adam Stoler Bronx, Nov. 4, 2009
 To the Editor:
 I would argue with the conventional wisdom that expresses surprise that Michael R. Bloomberg's margin of victory in the New York City mayoral race was so unexpectedly close in spite of the amount of money he spent campaigning. Instead, I believe that his huge and intrusive election campaign may have worked against him, not for him. 
 I, for one, was pleased with his track record and had planned on voting for him. But he gradually lost my vote by bombarding me with almost daily phone calls and frequent junk mail. 
 Elliot Vermes New York, Nov. 4, 2009
 To the Editor:
 ''Loss in Maine Sets Back Drive for Same-Sex Marriage'' (news analysis, New York Times on the Web, Nov. 4):
 For all of the strengths of our nation, founded on the principles of justice for all, one sad and unforgivable flaw remains: we allow the majority to decide the rights of a minority. 
 If I were a citizen of Maine, I'd awaken this morning very embarrassed to be a part of that otherwise very beautiful state. You have denied people I love a basic human right; you should not be proud of yourselves.
 Toni Weaver McHenry, Ill., Nov. 4, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY EDEL RODRIGUEZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); HEALTH CARE (72%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



168 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Committee Allows a Break On Certain Auditing Rules

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Legislation that its supporters say would provide greater protection to investors sailed through a House committee on Wednesday, but not before the lawmakers added a provision to ease new auditing standards for small and medium-size companies.
 The full House, meanwhile, overwhelmingly approved a bill to accelerate restrictions on credit card companies that had been signed into law by President Obama last May. That law was scheduled to take effect in February, but in response to consumer outrage over moves by some banks and credit card companies to raise rates and fees before then, the House moved to make it effective next month. 
 That move faces significant obstacles in the Senate, however. 
 By a vote of 37 to 32, the House Financial Services Committee moved to permanently exempt companies worth less than $75 million from the auditing provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, a change that was promoted by the White House chief of staff, Rahm Emanuel. 
 The amendment was criticized by senior Democrats, including Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, the chairman of the committee. But at a news conference on Tuesday, Mr. Frank defended Mr. Emanuel's involvement, saying he had helped to negotiate a substantial narrowing of the provision. 
 The companies that would be permanently relieved of auditing requirements under Sarbanes-Oxley have repeatedly won temporary exemptions from the Securities and Exchange Commission. The amendment approved by the committee was sponsored by two New Jersey congressmen, John Adler, a Democrat, and Scott Garrett, a Republican. Supporters said the more stringent auditing provisions were overly burdensome to small companies and that easing them would encourage job growth.
 Consumer groups said the provision had no place in a bill that its sponsors say is supposed to help protect investors.
 ''The supporters of this amendment, including apparently the White House, have suggested that weakening protections against accounting fraud is justified in order to promote job growth,'' said Barbara Roper, director of investor protection at the Consumer Federation of America. ''That is precisely the sort of thinking that landed us in the current mess and precisely the sort of thinking Democrats criticized when they were blaming Republicans for the current financial crisis.''
 The bill, part of a broader effort to overhaul the regulatory system in response to the crisis in the financial markets, would provide new powers and increased resources to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The legislation, approved 41 to 28, would give the commission the authority to end mandatory arbitration agreements that investors must sign with their brokers and financial advisers. And it would establish a whistle-blower bounty program for Wall Street employees. 
 The vote cleared the way for the committee to begin considering a plan by Mr. Frank and the administration to give the government broad new powers to shift the cost of rescues of big financial institutions from taxpayers to other large companies.
 The legislation tries to respond to the outcry over taxpayer bailouts of some of the nation's biggest financial companies, including Bear Stearns, Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, the American International Group, Citigroup and Bank of America. 
 The measure, directed at institutions whose troubles might pose risks to the financial system, would create a powerful oversight council, led by the Treasury secretary and composed of top regulators, to set policy and tougher regulations for the largest companies and mediate disputes between federal agencies. It would also give the Federal Reserve a lead role in directly supervising many of the largest financial conglomerates. 
 The legislation accelerating the effective date of the credit card law was approved 331 to 92 after lawmakers criticized companies that had moved to raise rates and fees before the new law takes effect. The law, passed last May, would require banks and card companies to give 45 days' notice before changing interest rates. The law also makes it harder to issue credit cards to students and prevents companies from charging fees to those who exceed their credit limit. 
 Representative Carolyn Maloney, Democrat of New York and the sponsor of the measure, said it would prevent issuers of credit cards from ''getting in under the wire with a last gasp of unfair practices.''
 Industry executives, however, said the move could backfire by prompting companies to restrict the availability of credit at a time when the economy is in a recession.
 ''This will create significant confusion for consumers and will further restrict access to credit for both consumers and small businesses, all to the detriment of the broader economy,'' said Kenneth J. Clayton, a senior vice president at the American Bankers Association.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Barney Frank, chairman of the House Financial Services Committee. His panel voted to exempt companies worth less than $75 million from Sarbanes-Oxley auditing rules. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); AUDITS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (90%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); SPONSORSHIP (87%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (86%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CREDIT CARDS (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (77%); BAILOUTS (74%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (73%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (89%); RAHM EMANUEL (73%); SCOTT GARRETT (59%); JOHN ADLER (59%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



169 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: The Morning After, Democrats Regret Lost Chances to Win

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL

 BODY:
As the cheering dies down over at William C. Thompson Jr.'s headquarters, where close almost passed for victory on Tuesday evening, New York's Democrats are left to consider a colder reality:
 This was a race most Democrats now believe they could have won. Numbering among the co-conspirators in the Democrats' defeat, in the view of some party leaders and activists, are Democratic grandees, from President Obama -- who did not campaign for Mr. Thompson -- to the City Council speaker, whose support could not have been softer, to two powerful labor unions that remained studiously neutral.
 By the next mayoral election, it will have been 20 years since a Democrat occupied the mayor's office, and the second guesses were many on Wednesday. 
 ''Bill Thompson was always closer than people thought, and on our side, if people had been behind him more, there would have been more checks, more endorsements, more attention, and that might have made the difference,'' said State Senator Eric T. Schneiderman of Manhattan. ''It really is disgraceful that a lot of people in the Democratic Party stayed home or kept their checkbooks closed.''
 Barbara Fife, a deputy mayor under David N. Dinkins, acknowledged many ills, from an honorable but lackluster candidate to a too-quick willingness of many prominent Democrats to write off Mr. Thompson's campaign as stillborn. 
 But she wondered at a Democratic president who could barely bring himself to utter the mayoral candidate's name, much less to make a swing through New York. ''He made people feel this was not winnable; Bill got lumped in with Paterson in many minds,'' Ms. Fife said. ''Obama had lists he could have given, and support. But he never said boo.'' 
 The mystery of Democrats' mayoral failures is considerable, not the least to Democrats. Registered Democrats outnumber Republicans by about five to one in New York City, and unemployment is in the double digits, with joblessness among black males near 50 percent. 
 ''This was a winnable race, no two ways about it,'' said Bill de Blasio, who was elected public advocate. ''The first and most dominant factor was Bloomberg's spending. But the spending was a double-edged sword, as it thoroughly alienated people.''
 Mr. Thompson, too, had the advantage of a considerable racial and ethnic base, which has been gold to city candidates for close to two centuries. And the city's economy was listing toward the water line. ''The conditions were there all along for a formidable challenge to the mayor,'' said Andrew Breslau, an observer of city politics and the executive director of City Futures, a nonpartisan urban policy group. ''There was class resentment in this economically fraught time.''
 And yet, once again, Democrats struggled to run an effective mayoral campaign. The causes for this are many.
 The Democratic political machines stand covered with rust, with bosses ruling as minor potentates rather than boroughwide forces. Mr. Thompson was Brooklyn's native son, yet the borough president, Marty Markowitz, piped up that he was a Bloomberg guy. The City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, a Democrat, endorsed Mr. Thompson with the enthusiasm of someone facing a tooth extraction.
 ''The fact is that some leading Democrats took a walk,'' said a prominent Democratic councilman. ''There were people who fought hard. And people who took a big long walk. And people who went to the other side.''
 The ideological battles and racial ascendancies that once fired the blood of Democrats also sound passe. Since 1993, a white woman, a white man, a Puerto Rican man and a black man have run as Democrats and lost. 
 And voter turnout has headed toward the subbasement, as Democrats fashioned victories by mobilizing tiny slices of the electorate.
 ''The Democratic Party is winning elections by reducing turnout,'' says Fred Siegel, a historian at the Cooper Union. 
 Nor did Mayor Bloomberg offer an easy mark. He had good favorability ratings and lavished more than $90 million on his campaign, collecting prominent Democratic consultants as a schoolboy might collect stamps. He created an aura of gilded invincibility, which the media retailed. For labor unions like 1199 S.E.I.U. United Healthcare Workers East and the United Federation of Teachers, whose leaders are acutely sensitive to power, it seemed wise to stay silent.
 ''Politics is partly about perception, and Bloomberg effectively portrayed this as inevitable,'' said Dan Cantor of the Working Families Party, a labor-backed party that endorsed Mr. Thompson but watched two of its unions remain neutral. ''Had some of the big institutional players felt it was going to be closer, we might have had a different outcome.''
 The party, Mr. Cantor noted, ''is most powerful when we're all walking in the same direction.''
 All of this said, Mr. Thompson might be cautioned against trying to claim the party banner in the next election. Many Democrats view his campaign as unfocused and curiously passive. As George Arzt, a political consultant, noted, Mr. Thompson's profile was so underdeveloped that Mr. Bloomberg's campaign did him a favor by running months of relentlessly negative commercials. ''It let people know who he was,'' Mr. Arzt said. 
 Representative Anthony D. Weiner peered into the bottomless money pit that was the Bloomberg re-election machine and thought the better of his mayoral ambitions this year. But many Democrats guessed that his kinetic energies might have been better suited to the task.
 ''Tony knows how to get out there and run against the Manhattan elite, and he has the fire in the belly,'' said Ms. Fife. ''He's the one a lot of people are looking at now.''
 But then, for city Democrats, the next election often looks more promising than the last.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: William C. Thompson Jr. conceding the mayoral election.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS: Where Bloomberg Lost Ground: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg won re-election Tuesday, but voters were less enthusiastic about him than the last time he ran in 2005. Here is how the mayor's narrow margin was achieved.
Hispanic vote: In heavily Hispanic areas, the mayor did better than in 2005, when he was running against Fernando Ferrer. Turnout in these districts, however, was among the lowest in the city.
Affluent whites: The mayor did very well in highincome white areas of Manhattan and Queens. In Douglaston, turnout was 43 percent, very high for this election.
Black middle class: Mr. Bloomberg's vote fell most sharply in southeast Queens, where the black middle class has been hard-hit by foreclosure.
Immigrants: The mayor did relatively well in election districts dominated by immigrants, like Flushing and Brighton Beach.(Source: Andrew Beveridge, Queens College sociology department (results)
Edison Research (exit poll responses)
 (CHART BY FORD FESSENDEN AND ARCHIE TSE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); MAYORS (90%); POLITICS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (74%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (70%); LABOR UNIONS (55%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



170 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1960 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Bask in Glow of Victories in N.J. and Va.

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER and IAN URBINA; David Kocieniewski, Nate Schweber, Carl Hulse and David Stout contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Savoring their victories in gubernatorial contests in New Jersey and Virginia, Republicans were trying on Wednesday morning to build momentum, in a time of economic concern, for a strong challenge to President Obama's party in next year's midterm Congressional elections. 
 The White House insisted that the Republican victories in the two races for governor were not referendums on President Obama but rather the reflections of ''very local issues that didn't involve the president,'' as Robert Gibbs, the chief administration spokesman, told reporters.
 Michael Steele, the Republican national chairman, was jubilant at a Wednesday morning news conference in Washington. ''As recently as a couple of months ago, Republicans were written off,'' Mr. Steele said. ''Many of you were writing our epitaph and reminiscing of the good old days, whatever they happened to have been.'' 
 The ''real heroes'' of Tuesday's victories, Mr. Steele said, were ''the Republicans and independents and, yes, even Democrats who spoke up against an incredibly arrogant government in Washington that has put our country, our freedoms and our economy at risk with unprecedented spending.'' 
 Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the Republican whip, took a similar tack. ''I think that the victories last night here and in New Jersey indicate that when Republicans stand united we can win, whether it's in a northern state or a southern state, and we can appeal to the independent voters,'' Mr. Cantor said Wednesday morning on Fox News. ''What's important to take out of these elections is that voters in both states were very concerned about the direction of the economy and rejected out of hand the economic policies being pursued by the White House and Speaker Pelosi.''
 As they assessed the results, Democratic lawmakers and party strategists said it was their judgment that voters remained very uneasy about the economy, and did not see Democrats delivering on the health, energy and national security changes they promised a year ago when they strengthened their hold on Congress and won the White House.
 ''Most of us ran on that,'' said Representative Gerry E. Connolly of Virginia, president of the party's freshmen class in Congress. ''We must deliver.''
 Contrary to the view that losses in the off-year elections would make Democrats reluctant to take up such contentious issues, Mr. Connolly and other lawmakers said the outcome on Tuesday could have the opposite result, and spur Democrats on.At the White House on Wednesday morning, Mr. Gibbs said it was hardly news that the people are concerned about the economy. ''I don't think the president needed an election or an exit poll to come to that conclusion,'' Mr. Gibbs said.
 Local issues were dominant concerns in both of the gubernatorial races, exit polls indicated, and the results seemed to carry cautions for both parties. Still, a collective frustration with the economy and anxiety over high property taxes helped Republicans regain some ground that they had ceded to Democrats in recent years. The trend was especially evident in the New York suburbs, where Republican challengers unseated a three-term county executive in Westchester County, retook control of the legislature in Nassau County and came tantalizingly close to winning the county executive race there as well.
 Democrats, meanwhile, took heart from a closely watched Congressional race in upstate New York, where a Democrat who received a late push from the White House exploited division among Republicans to defeat a Conservative Party candidate who had attracted national backers like Rush Limbaugh and Sarah Palin, the former Alaska governor. 
 In New Jersey, Christopher J. Christie, a former federal prosecutor, became the first Republican to win statewide in 12 years by vowing to attack the state's fiscal problems with the same aggressiveness he used to lock up corrupt politicians.
 He overcame a huge Democratic voter-registration advantage and a relentless barrage of negative commercials to defeat Jon S. Corzine, an unpopular incumbent who outspent him by more than two to one and drew heavily on political help from the White House, including three visits to the state from President Obama.
 ''We are in a crisis; the times are extraordinarily difficult, but I stand here tonight full of hope for the future,'' said Mr. Christie, 47, who will become New Jersey's 55th governor. ''Tomorrow begins the task of fixing a broken state.''
 Mr. Corzine, 62, who entered politics a decade ago after a career at Goldman Sachs, conceded defeat at 10:55 p.m. Easternt time Tuesday night. 
 ''It has been quite a journey,'' he said. ''There's a bright future ahead for New Jersey if we stay focused on people's lives, and I'm telling you, I'm going to do that for the rest of my life.''
 With 98 percent of precincts reporting, Mr. Christie had 49 percent of the vote, Mr. Corzine 44 percent.
 In Virginia, where Mr. Obama was the first Democratic presidential nominee to carry the state since 1964, Robert F. McDonnell, a Republican and former state attorney general, rolled to victory over R. Creigh Deeds, a veteran state senator.
 With 99 percent of precincts reporting, Mr. McDonnell had 59 percent and Mr. Deeds 41 percent. Mr. McDonnell's victory, along with Republican victories in the races for attorney general and lieutenant governor, ended eight years of Democratic control in Richmond.
 Mr. Gibbs, the White House spokesman, said the president had telephoned Mr. Corzine and Mr. Deeds but had yet to congratulate the Republican victors in New Jersey and Virginia.
 In New York's 23rd Congressional District, Douglas L. Hoffman, a little-known accountant running on the Conservative Party line, conceded the race after midnight to his Democratic rival, Bill Owens. A moderate Republican candidate withdrew from the campaign just three days before the election under heavy pressure from the party's right wing. 
 Fought as the country was struggling to emerge from its worst recession in decades, the 2009 election brought basic economic issues -- job losses, foreclosures, taxes -- to the fore in many state and local races. 
 In Virginia, Mr. McDonnell, avoided divisive social questions, concentrating instead on his plans to create jobs, improve the economy and fix the state's transportation problems.
 In New Jersey, Mr. Christie held Mr. Corzine, a onetime Goldman Sachs chief executive, accountable for rising unemployment, persistent budget deficits, and his failure to gain control over skyrocketing property taxes, the nation's highest. Voters embraced Mr. Christie even though he offered little detail about how he would fix the state's chronic financial problems and instead appealed to voters hungry for change.
 Voters in both states remained strongly supportive of President Obama, exit polls conducted by Edison Research showed, though they said that was not a factor in their decisions. But independent voters, who in New Jersey favored the president in 2008 and in Virginia split between Mr. Obama and John McCain, delivered strong margins for both Mr. Christie and Mr. McDonnell, the surveys showed.
 In New Jersey, a sprawling corruption case begun by Mr. Christie, which culminated in July with the arrests of dozens of politicians and others, appeared to have taken its toll on the Democratic get-out-the-vote machinery. In Hudson County, a party bastion where a number of Democratic officials were charged, only 39 percent of registered voters cast their ballots, county officials said.
 The races in New Jersey, Virginia and New York attracted intense interest because they provided the first test of President Obama's ability to transfer the excitement he unleashed last year to other Democratic candidates.
 The White House, to varying degrees, became involved in all three races, worried that defeats would undermine the public's perceptions of the president's political clout and his ability to pass major legislation.
 With polls of the Virginia race showing Mr. Deeds falling further behind, the White House refrained from an all-out effort on his behalf, though Mr. Obama campaigned with Mr. Deeds twice. 
 In New York, however, the president's aides played a pivotal role in helping Mr. Owens over the weekend, engineering a surprise endorsement from the moderate Republican who had abandoned the race under pressure from conservatives. 
 And in New Jersey, the White House took a firm hand in guiding Mr. Corzine's re-election campaign, culminating in rallies featuring the president campaigning with the governor in Newark and Camden on Sunday.
 The victor in Virginia, Mr. McDonnell, 55, is a social and fiscal conservative, but ran on a more moderate platform that appealed to voters in the suburbs in Fairfax County, where he was raised. By contrast, Mr. Deeds, 51, had a difficult time introducing himself to densely populated Northern Virginia.
 Mr. Deeds sought to portray Mr. McDonnell as a radical conservative by publicizing his 20-year-old master's thesis, which criticized working women and single mothers. But polls showed voters found Mr. Deeds's commercials too negative. 
 The New York race emerged in the national spotlight after President Obama appointed the district's long-serving congressman, John M. McHugh, a Republican, as secretary of the Army. Almost immediately after local Republican leaders chose Dede Scozzafava, a supporter of gay rights and abortion rights who embraced the federal stimulus package, she came under attack by conservatives as heretical.
 Leading conservative voices lined up behind Mr. Hoffman, of Lake Placid, and opponents of same-sex marriage and abortion flooded the district with volunteers from across the country.
 In the final days of the campaign, Ms. Scozzafava stunned her party by withdrawing from the race and then backing Mr. Owens. Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. traveled to Watertown on Monday to rally Democrats and disgruntled Republicans, but the event drew only about 200 people.
 In New Jersey, Mr. Christie attacked Mr. Corzine's economic leadership, saying he had driven jobs and residents from the state. The governor countered that Mr. Christie offered no viable plan for digging New Jersey out of its enormous financial hole.
 Christopher J. Daggett, a former state and federal environmental official, made a splash with a plan to cut property taxes and a strong debate performance, but was hobbled by weak fund-raising. After reaching 20 percent in one public-opinion poll, he failed to break out of the double digits.
 New Jersey was a deep-blue state, and Mr. Obama's election boosted Democratic registration, giving the party a 700,000-vote advantage. Mr. Corzine assailed Mr. Christie, who was named United States attorney by President George W. Bush in 2001, as a philosophical clone of Mr. Bush. 
 The White House, viewing New Jersey as its best hope for victory, poured resources into the race. The president's pollster overhauled the campaign's message, White House aides reviewed Corzine commercials and attended strategy sessions, and cabinet officials lined up to appear at Mr. Corzine's side. 
 But Mr. Corzine's abiding unpopularity -- his highest approval rating followed his 2007 car accident and was chalked up to pity -- suggested that even ''Obama surge'' voters who voted for the first time last year could not tilt the outcome in the governor's favor.
 No issue loomed larger in New Jersey than the economy, which Mr. Corzine assured residents in January ranked as his No. 1, 2 and 3 priorities. But Mr. Christie never wavered from a simple strategy: making the vote a referendum on Mr. Corzine and highlighting how his supposed Wall Street financial skills had been a bust for the state. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); REFERENDUMS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (66%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); MICHAEL STEELE (78%); ERIC CANTOR (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



171 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: Reports Show Conflicting Number of Jobs Attributed to Stimulus Money

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER and RON NIXON

 BODY:
In June, the federal government spent $1,047 in stimulus money to buy a rider mower from the Toro Company to cut the grass at the Fayetteville National Cemetery in Arkansas. Now, a report on the government's stimulus Web site improbably claims that that single lawn mower sale helped save or create 50 jobs.
 Earlier that same month, when Chrysler got a $52.9 million stimulus order for new cars for the government, the struggling automaker claimed that the money did not save a single job. 
 Those two extremes illustrate the difficulties in trying to figure out just how many jobs can be attributed to the $787 billion stimulus program. Last week the Obama administration released reports from more than 130,000 recipients of stimulus money in which they claimed to have saved or created more than 640,000 jobs, but a review of those reports shows that some are simply wrong, while others contain apparently subjective estimates. 
 A spokesman for Toro said the 50-job figure was not accurate, making it one of a number of reports with apparent errors. In many other cases, though, claims of jobs created are simply judgment calls, often by recipients trying to follow complex federal guidelines. 
 More than half of all the jobs claimed -- 325,000 -- were those of educators that states said they were able to keep on the job thanks to stimulus aid. But some school districts said that they might not have actually laid off teachers without the stimulus money. Many Head Start programs reported saving the jobs of employees who in fact had simply been given raises with stimulus money -- putting their claims of 8,000 jobs under review. Many states and private companies seem to have used different criteria when estimating whether stimulus aid had saved jobs or not, and when calculating full-time positions. 
 The reports, for all their shortcomings, do provide the first check of how the stimulus bill is working so far. They suggest that more than half the jobs claimed so far are in the public sector -- despite the fact that President Obama has said that he expects only 10 percent of stimulus jobs to be in the public sector. 
 A computer analysis by The New York Times of government reports showed that at least 30,000 of the jobs were being claimed in highway, street and bridge construction, and at least 14,000 were with transit agencies. The analysis found that the $5 billion push to weatherize homes, which was delayed in many states because of uncertainty over how much money the workers should be paid, had yielded only a little over 5,000 jobs so far, nearly half of which were in Ohio. 
 The reports, which have been posted on the government's Web site, www.recovery.gov, provide unusual transparency for government spending, showing how much money each contractor has received and where the work has been done, right down to the ZIP code. But they seem to raise as many questions as they answer. 
 The reports make no distinction between a newly created job and a saved job. They do not specify whether a job is in the public or private sector. And descriptions of the work vary in detail, making it difficult to categorize some work and to compare how various programs are doing.
 Elizabeth A. Oxhorn, a White House spokeswoman on the stimulus, said that some of the data, which officials had always warned would contain errors, was rough because it was posted online quickly after it was received, in an effort at transparency. The jobs numbers would likely be adjusted both upward and downward, she said. 
 ''As with all economic indicators -- even statistics that have been around for decades -- the brand-new measures posted last week are subject to subsequent revision, as further analysis clarifies and improves the data,'' she said.
 Although President Obama initially said that 90 percent of the jobs created by the stimulus program would be in the private sector, the data suggests that well over half of the jobs claimed so far have been in the public sector. They include the 325,000 jobs in education, including teachers, administrators and support staff, as well as many of the 73,000 other jobs paid for with education grants, many of which were in public safety.
 Republicans, who overwhelmingly opposed the stimulus program, said the figures showed that the program was failing in its stated mission of creating a large number of private sector jobs. Administration officials said that they believed the stimulus program was still on track to save or create 3.5 million jobs by the end of next year, and that in the end 90 percent of the jobs would be in the private sector.
 The job data can be loose. Philip Mattera, the research director for Good Jobs First, a labor-oriented research organization in Washington, examined the reports and found 2,464 projects that claimed no jobs at all, even though more than half of the work had been done, at a cost of more than $1 billion. That suggests that many projects have undercounted job creation. 
 But the dogs that do not bark are not receiving as much attention as those that do. Onvia, a Seattle company that tracks government spending at the federal, state and local levels, noted that the data is only as good as the recipients that have reported it, and pointed out a number of questionable reports. 
 In one, a Kentucky shoe store reported that it had created nine jobs with an $890 order for work boots. In another, a $7,960 contract for a ''Basketball System Replacement'' in Ohio claimed three jobs. 
 It was not clear what positions they played.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (74%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (65%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (64%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (60%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%)

COMPANY: TORO CO (94%)

TICKER: TTC (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333112 LAWN & GARDEN TRACTOR & HOME LAWN & GARDEN EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS332216 SAW BLADE & HANDTOOL MANUFACTURING (94%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



172 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Thousands Failed to Vote, For Just as Many Reasons

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS and CARA BUCKLEY

 BODY:
New Yorkers by the tens of thousands failed to vote on Tuesday. And their reasons and excuses for not doing so numbered almost as many -- apathy, absent-mindedness, willful protest and, for a great number, a belief that their vote just wouldn't count in a race that was not supposed to be in doubt.
 A day later, with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberghaving won re-election by a shockingly narrow margin, nonvoters were left with a new set of emotions -- regret, embarrassment, frustration. Oh, and apathy, too. Still. 
 Jennifer Ginchereau, 37, an artist from Long Island City, Queens, said that she was a fan of Mr. Bloomberg, but had spent some time researching his rival, City Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr. She read the newspaper coverage and watched one of the debates on television, but, in the end, decided to stick with Mr. Bloomberg.
 But then she didn't vote. ''I had so much to do, I forgot,'' she said. Mr. Bloomberg's narrow margin of victory, she said, ''scared me.'' 
 ''It was so close it feels like I should have voted, but I just took it for granted,'' she added. ''I was convinced he was going to win; I didn't think my vote would matter. I wonder how many more people felt the same way and didn't vote. And I wonder what would have happened if everyone who thought about voting had actually gone out to vote.''
 Thelma Salley wondered the same thing, but with a sense of wincing regret. 
 Ms. Salley, an educational assistant from East Flatbush, Brooklyn, said she voted for Mr. Bloomberg in 2005, but would have voted for Mr. Thompson this year -- not because she particularly liked him, but because she wanted to express her discontent with the current administration.
 ''I don't see what Bloomberg did for me,'' Ms. Salley said. ''The city is more expensive. Then he said crime went down, but I don't see that crime went down. He says he created jobs, but there are a lot of people who want to work and who don't have jobs.''
 But, having failed to vote, Ms. Salley on Wednesday seemed to concede she had more to be angry about with herself than with Mr. Bloomberg.
 ''I wished we'd have a new mayor, but if we don't have it, it's partly my fault,'' she said. ''And because I didn't vote, I can't really complain when things go wrong.''
 Some nonvoters felt that neither candidate deserved their vote, for different reasons. Lindy Frederick, 36, a nursing student who lives in East Flatbush, said that she did not know enough about Mr. Thompson and also did not want Mr. Bloomberg to serve what she viewed as an ill-gotten third term. She is a regular voter, but this year, she said, as she waited for a bus at Columbus Circle in Manhattan, ''I just didn't care either way.''
 Some of those who voted for Mr. Bloomberg started to really care about all the nonvoters after the returns started coming in Tuesday night. With some 60 percent of the vote counted, Mr. Bloomberg's lead was less than a single percentage point.
 And so shortly after 10 p.m. on Tuesday, as Sam Zakarin was lounging in his home in Brooklyn, his phone rang.
 Shlomo Gewirtzman, Mr. Zakarin's business partner, was on the line, all but calling him an idiot. ''How come you didn't vote?'' he said. 
 Mr. Gewirtzman, 27, had backed Mr. Bloomberg and was growing increasingly fretful as the polls showed a close race. Mr. Zakarin, 28, was unmoved.
 Usually a regular voter, he deliberately sat this election out. And even though the returns had shown Mr. Thompson within reach of unseating Mr. Bloomberg, Mr. Zakarin had no morning-after regrets.
 ''I thought if Bloomberg gets back in, it goes against everything I believe in,'' said Mr. Zakarin, who works in Midtown Manhattan, as he and Mr. Gewirtzman went over business figures in Bryant Park on Wednesday. ''And I didn't think the other guy was good for the job.''
 Mark Radichio, 42, who owns a landscaping company, said that he has been a lifelong Democrat, but that he voted for Mr. Bloomberg in 2001 and 2005.
 ''I liked his style, his independence, and I've always liked the fact that he doesn't take campaign money from anyone,'' Mr. Radichio said.
 Then two things happened that made him change his mind about the mayor. ''First, it was term limits. The guy just wants to be mayor for life, and I don't like that,'' said Mr. Radichio, who lives in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn. ''Then, it was all this money he spent on his campaign. People are unemployed, they're losing their homes, and you're spending tens of millions of dollars on a political campaign? There's something wrong with this picture.''
 Mr. Radichio thought it over and decided he would vote for Mr. Thompson, whom he confessed knowing little about, but who he thought would be a better choice, given Mr. Bloomberg's ''baggage,'' as he put it.
 ''I'm ashamed to say that I didn't vote,'' Mr. Radichio said. ''I just assumed Bloomberg was going to crush the other guy. I'll tell you, I'm never going to sit out an election again.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shlomo Gewirtzman, left, who backed Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, and Sam Zakarin, who sat this election out.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); MAYORS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%); JOB CREATION (60%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



173 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S ON TODAY

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
10 P.M. (Bravo) THE REAL HOUSEWIVES OF ORANGE COUNTY The ladies who started it all find that suburban life in a gated Orange County enclave isn't quite so sunny in the midst of the economic downturn. Season 5 begins, above from left, with Vicki Gunvalson, Lynne Curtin, Gretchen Rossi, Alexis Bellino and Tamra Barney. The other women say farewell to Jeana Keough and make room in their group for Ms. Bellino, a 32-year-old, stay-at-home mother of three with a 1950s attitude that means she puts her husband, Jim, and his needs first.
 6 A.M. (Fox News Channel) FOX & FRIENDS This live report from the U.S.S. New York, a ship forged with steel of the World Trade Center, includes interviews with Gov. David A. Paterson, former Gov. George E. Pataki, former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and the New York City police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly. 
 9 A.M. (Fox Business Network) AMERICAN ICON Liz Claman reports on the latest initiatives -- from Android phones to flu-tracking programs -- at the Google campus in Silicon Valley.
 11 A.M. (NBC) THE MARTHA STEWART SHOW Ms. Stewart devotes the episode to cheese, including arranging a cheese plate, making fresh goat cheese and the art of fondue.
 8 P.M. (13) SUNDAY ARTS PRIMETIMEPhilippe de Montebello, director emeritus of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and the journalist Paula Zahn, also a cellist, host this new version of the Sunday showcase of the performing and visual arts in the tristate area. 
 8 P.M. (National Geographic) ULTIMATE FACTORIES Each year Ikea caters to nearly 600 million customers, who choose from among 10,000 items. This episode travels to the manufacturing plants that make it all possible, like the wood production factory in Zbaszynek, Poland, that churns out two million tables, chairs, sofas and recliners yearly, and the nearby textile supplier that helps build more than 500 pieces of upholstered furniture daily. Then it's off to the birthplace of the foundation of most Ikea furnishings -- particle board -- in Hultsfred, Sweden.
 8 P.M. (ABC) FLASHFORWARD Mark (Joseph Fiennes), Demetri (John Cho), Gough (Lea Thompson Young) and Fiona Banks (Alex Kingston), an MI6 agent, investigate a club with a possible connection to several recent suicides. 
 8:30 P.M. (NBC) PARKS AND RECREATION Leslie (Poehler) learns that the library department, which is headed by the ex-wife (Megan Mullally) of Ron (Nick Offerman), wants to take control of her lot. 
 9 P.M. (13) ASK THE GOVERNOR: NEW YORK'S ECONOMIC CRISIS In a town hall meeting held Wednesday at New York University School of Law, Gov. David A. Paterson, left, discusses the state's financial climate and answers questions from the audience and viewers at home.
 9 P.M. (ABC) GREY'S ANATOMY Arizona (Jessica Capshaw) enters into surgery -- and a conflict of interests -- with the knowledge that the life of a 10-year-old boy and his parents' offer of a $25 million donation to Seattle Grace are on the line. Cristina (Sandra Oh) tests her boundaries with Owen (Kevin McKidd), and Alex (Justin Chambers) is stuck with Izzie's hospital bills.
 9:30 P.M. (NBC) 30 ROCK It's audition day, and everyone is scheming to have his favorite actor hired. Liz (Tina Fey) and Pete (Scott Adsit) try to rig the process, while Tracy (Tracy Morgan) and Jenna (Jane Krakowski) decide to conduct their own search. Brian Williams guest stars.
 10 P.M. (CBS) THE MENTALIST Even bars can't stop him: after Bosco (Terry Kinney) throws Jane (Simon Baker) in prison for spying on him, Jane helps the team solve a murder case from his cell.
 10 P.M. (VH1) BROKE AND FAMOUS: WILLIE AAMES Mr. Aames, who rolled in dough as a young actor in ''Eight Is Enough'' and ''Charles in Charge'' before witnessing the disintegration of his livelihood, his marriage and his relationship with his daughter, reshapes his future with the help of Sarano Kelley, a financial expert and life coach. His first step: holding a garage sale at his home in Olathe, Kan., the better to turn his red bank balance to black.
 10 P.M. (Lifetime) PROJECT RUNWAY In their last challenge before the Fashion Week competition, the contestants must design outfits that express their own artistry. After the elimination the finalists return home to work on their runway collections. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); CITIES (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (74%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (74%); JOURNALISM (74%); POLICE FORCES (73%); MAYORS (73%); SUBURBS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (71%); CHEESE (70%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (70%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (68%); LAW SCHOOLS (66%); VISUAL ARTS (65%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (65%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (64%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (64%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%); WRITERS (64%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); GOVERNORS (53%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (93%); GOOGLE INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (56%); RUDY GIULIANI (53%); DAVID PATERSON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



174 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 399 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Decision to Keep Opel Rankles Some Europeans

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ and DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
General Motors provoked an uproar Wednesday in Germany after the company decided to keep its European business, Opel, rather than sell a majority stake to a consortium that had promised to try to safeguard jobs and factories. 
 The sudden decision, after months of high-level negotiations, reflected a new degree of confidence at G.M. after its rebirth through a United States bankruptcy court. Opel was a strategic asset that G.M. had been prepared to jettison as it fought for its own survival.
 The European operations, with their expertise in small-car technology, are crucial to the future of the parent company in the United States and in the growing markets of Asia and South America, analysts said.
 ''Without Opel, there was a gaping hole in G.M.'s strategy,'' said Michael Tyndall, an auto specialist at Nomura International in London.
 Opel workers and the German government, however, had strongly backed a sale to the Canadian-Austrian auto parts maker Magna International and Sberbank, the largest Russian lender, believing that the deal would protect the most jobs as well as provide better access to the Russian market. G.M.'s European operations include the Opel and Vauxhall brands.
 ''We are personally and deeply disturbed and irritated by what G.M. did,'' said Roland Koch, the premier of the German state of Hesse, where Opel has its headquarters. ''G.M. came to us for assistance. I think people on the board forgot that.''
 Rainer Bruderle, the new German economy minister, vowed to make the Detroit automaker repay the 1.5 billion euros, or $2.2 billion, in short-term financing that Berlin had extended to keep Opel afloat while it restructured.
 G.M. said it expected that it would need another 1.5 billion euros to reorganize its operations, which it hoped to get in loan guarantees from European governments. Aside from Germany, countries with Opel factories include Britain, Spain and Belgium.
 The amount G.M. is seeking would be half the additional 3 billion euros that Magna wanted, but G.M.'s intentions are not yet clear. The chief executive, Fritz Henderson, said Tuesday in Detroit that he would present a plan to revamp the automaker to European governments soon.
 John Smith, G.M.'s group vice president for corporate planning and alliances, said G.M.'s own plan was similar to what Magna wanted to accomplish. He said it could involve cuts of up to 10,000 jobs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (56%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (53%)

COMPANY: MAGNA INTERNATIONAL INC (83%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%); SBERBANK ROSSII OAO (55%)

TICKER: MGA (NYSE) (83%); MG (TSX) (83%); GM (NYSE) (59%); SBER (RTS) (55%); SBER (LSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336360 MOTOR VEHICLE SEATING & INTERIOR TRIM MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

PERSON: FREDERICK HENDERSON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); HESSE, GERMANY (92%) GERMANY (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%); SPAIN (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); BELGIUM (79%); ASIA (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); AUSTRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009



175 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Third-Term Blues Are Job Hazard in Mayor's Office and Albany

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
Fiorello H. La Guardia, ill with cancer and already fitted for a uniform, craved a military commission that would get him out of New York. Robert F. Wagner's wife had just died and he was growing weary of juggling work and family. Edward I. Koch, tainted by a corruption scandal, contemplated suicide. 
 Third terms have been notoriously unkind to those who managed to persuade voters to keep them around. 
 So when Michael R. Bloomberg resets his City Hall countdown clock on New Year's Eve, he will have 1,461 days left to defy a curse that bedeviled three of his predecessors as mayor of New York and confounded the state's three-term governors, too.
 And Mr. Bloomberg's third term follows an election he won by a larger percentage margin than his first term, but more narrowly than most expected, with many angered by his upending of the term-limits law and his lavish campaign spending. 
 Mr. Bloomberg addressed the so-called curse on election night. ''Conventional wisdom says historically third terms haven't been too successful,'' he said. ''But we've spent the last eight years defying conventional wisdom.''
 His three predecessors who served three terms could point to many accomplishments that, fairly or not, were often overshadowed by failures. By the end of his third term, La Guardia was embittered over being denied a generalship in World War II and was hobbled by shrunken resources.
 ''La Guardia Term 1 was a dynamic reformer; by the end of Term 2 there was more tendency to describe him as a bully,'' Chris McNickle, the author of ''To Be Mayor of New York'' (1993), said in an interview last year. ''Wagner Term 1 was a consensus builder. By the end of Term 2 he was indecisive and weak. Koch Term 1 was refreshingly candid. By the end of Term 2 he was increasingly described as divisive.''
 Mr. Wagner's largely scandal-free third term was defined by progress on urban renewal, city hospital consolidation and water fluoridation, but he concluded in 1965 that ''much of the pleasure and satisfaction I have always derived from even the day-to-day work schedule had been drained from me,'' adding: ''I feared I might go stale.''
 Other officeholders who have had a third term disputed the suggestion that their third terms were lackluster or worse, but offered advice to Mr. Bloomberg on how to avoid pitfalls. 
 Mr. Koch's third term seemed consumed by corruption scandals, even though he was never implicated. He also hurt himself with his putdowns of the New York Giants after their Super Bowl victory in 1987 (Mr. Koch said he would not hold a ticker tape parade for a team from New Jersey) and of the Rev. Jesse Jackson in the 1988 presidential campaign (he said Jews and other supporters of Israel would be crazy to vote for Mr. Jackson). 
 Still, as Mr. Koch recalls, he also initiated a mammoth $5 billion housing program, and enacted a smoking ban in restaurants, gay rights protections and campaign financing reform. 
 Re-elected to a third term in 1990, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo scrubbed the usual inaugural festivities, as the state confronted a $4 billion budget gap. He left himself open to scorn with his Hamlet-on-the-Hudson flirtation with a presidential campaign.
 His indecisiveness climaxed in 1991 in a bizarre spectacle at the Albany airport: with two chartered planes waiting on the tarmac and only 90 minutes before a filing deadline in New Hampshire, he aborted his nascent campaign, blaming Republicans in the Legislature for holding him hostage to budget negotiations. 
 Nonetheless, though private jobs declined and crime increased, Mr. Cuomo guided the state through a second recession without either raising broad-based taxes or letting the social safety net fray. He increased school aid and enacted state-subsidized health insurance.
 ''By the time you get to the third term, people are tired of you,'' Mr. Cuomo said in an interview this week. ''The constant exposure tends to be too much, and after a while, people take for granted what you did that they liked and they want new things that you can't deliver. The longer you're there, the less likely they are that they are going to be pleased.''
 He added, alluding to himself and Mr. Bloomberg, ''if the third terms come in bad economic times, it makes it a little bit harder.''
 Mr. Cuomo sought a fourth term, but failing to present a visionary agenda, he lost in 1994 to George E. Pataki, who entered office proposing that governors, starting with him, be limited to two terms. But in 2002, after the 9/11 terrorist attack, he ran again.
 In Mr. Pataki's third term, the restoration of the death penalty, which he had championed, was voided by the Court of Appeals, and his austerity agenda was thwarted by the Legislature. 
 ''We should have been more aggressive from Day 1 to hold the line on the budget,'' he said this week, but after reapportionment the Democrats had a veto-proof margin in the Assembly. 
 Also, Mr. Pataki recalled: ''Really the hardest thing in a third term is to have a team that has the ability and the same energy on Day 1. After four years, after eight years, key staff people are just going to be worn out.''
 Mr. Koch offered another suggestion this week: ''The key is, you have to have a personality that is always up.'' Referring to Mr. Bloomberg, he added: ''While I wouldn't say he's the most outgoing guy, he is an optimist.''
 Mr. Koch made one more recommendation: Forget about a fourth term.
 ''I tried four,'' he recalled (he lost in the Democratic primary to David N. Dinkins). ''I've come to the conclusion that three is enough. After that, you will be worn out. It's over.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Third-termers, from left: Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia in 1941
Mayor Robert F. Wagner in 1961
Mayor Edward I. Koch in 1986.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY THE NEW YORK TIMES
ASSOCIATED PRESS
 NEAL BOENZI/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (77%); SCANDALS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); TERM LIMITS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); CITIES (76%); SUICIDE (72%); GOVERNORS (71%); INTERVIEWS (68%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (60%); SPORTS (60%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); HOSPITALS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009



176 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: Cost Cuts and Incentive Program Help Toyota End a String of Losses

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
Toyota Motor said on Thursday that it had returned to a profit in the latest quarter as aggressive cost cuts, government incentives and signs of a global economic recovery all buoyed its bottom line.
 Its Japanese rivals, Honda and Nissan, both recently reported rosier earnings after a battering in the global economic crisis, which brought sales to a standstill and set off a wave of factory shutdowns and layoffs.
 Automakers have been helped by government incentives for fuel-efficient cars meant to reignite sales, like the cash-for-clunkers program in the United States and other Western countries. Japan has introduced a similar program, which has been a hit with consumers. 
 The brisk sales helped Toyota book a profit of 21.8 billion yen ($241 million) for the July-to-September period after three consecutive quarterly losses. Sales came to 4.54 trillion yen ($50.1 billion), down 24 percent from the same period a year earlier.
 Toyota said it expected a smaller loss for the fiscal year to March of 200 billion yen -- less than half the 450 billion yen loss it had originally predicted -- and lifted its annual global vehicle sales forecast to seven million from 6.5 million. .
 Toyota is still reeling, however, from the 437 billion yen ($4.8 billion) loss it suffered last fiscal year, the worst performance in the company's 72-year history.
 In addition to the ending or phasing out of many government incentives, the company is hurt by the strong yen, which makes Japanese exports less competitive overseas and eats into earnings in the home currency.
 The automaker also suffers from overcapacity after a sharp downturn a year ago coming on the heels of years of booming sales. 
 Akio Toyoda, a member of the company's founding family who took the helm in June, has vowed to put the company back on track with aggressive cost-cutting, which has involved shutting factories and laying off contract workers. 
 Earlier this year, Toyota pulled out of a 400,000-unit-a-year factory in California that it had held jointly with General Motors. On Wednesday, Toyota said it would give up its glamorous but expensive Formula One racing team and refocus the company on green cars.
 Toyota's exit from Formula One racing could save the company 50 billion a year, Bloomberg News reported.
 This week, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administrationcriticized the company's characterization of a possible design flaw involving Toyota floor mats, which are suspected of having jammed accelerator pedals. The problem could affect 3.8 million vehicles, including the company's top-selling Camry sedan, and the issue has already battered Toyota's reputation for quality and safety.
 A senior Toyota executive denied that the company was trying to cover up the cause of an estimated 2,000 reports of so-called runaway cars that experienced sudden surges of acceleration. 
 ''It is not part of the Toyota culture and Toyota way to cover up anything,'' Yukitoshi Funo, one of Toyota's five executive vice presidents, told reporters at its Tokyo headquarters. 
 With sales in the important United States market still soft, Toyota has looked to China and other emerging markets to pick up the slack. But while the Chinese market has been booming, Toyota's sales growth there has lagged overall market growth because of a weak lineup of models that qualify for Beijing's recent tax incentives.
 Meanwhile, demand has surged in Japan for Toyota's new Prius hybrid, which is sold tax-free under a government stimulus measure.
 Still, some analysts question whether the Prius is making the automaker much profit, especially after a low-cost hybrid model from rival Honda forced Toyota to lower its prices.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shoppers at a Toyota dealership in Brooklyn on Thursday. Toyota posted a profit of $241 million for the second quarter despite a 24 percent drop in sales compared with a year ago.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FORMULA ONE RACING (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (79%); AUTOMAKERS (79%); MOTOR VEHICLES (79%); SEDANS (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (76%); JAPANESE YEN (74%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (70%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (66%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); BLOOMBERG LP (51%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009



177 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: Art in Review

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN GENOCCHIO

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL FINE PRINT DEALERS ASSOCIATION FAIR
 Park Avenue Armory
 643 Park Avenue, at 67th Street 
 Through Sunday
 Recessions come and go but the International Fine Print Dealers Association Fair remains the same -- splendidly varied, elegantly casual and cheerfully affordable. With more than 80 dealers from the United States, Europe and Canada shoehorned into the Park Avenue Armory, it is also hopelessly overstuffed. But there is so much gorgeous, mind-blowing art on view that it never gets tiring. 
 The show presents nearly 500 years of printmaking from early 16th-century European woodcuts and engravings to recent experimental prints. Along the way are booths filled with rare books, antique wallpaper, Asian scrolls and even graffiti art, including a spray-paint wall mural by the street artist NTEL at Works on Paper, a Philadelphia gallery.
 But do not for a minute think that this isn't a supermarket. Several dealers, all too aware of timing, have brought work by early 20th-century German artists and designers to coincide with the opening this weekend of the Bauhaus exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art. Some of it is good stuff, like six self-portraits by Max Beckmann showing at Alice Adam, a Chicago dealer.
 The priciest material is European, specifically old master prints and drawings on display at a handful of well-known dealers. David Tunick, a New York print expert, has Rembrandt's ''Christ Crucified Between the Two Thieves: The Three Crosses'' (1653), looking as clear and fresh as the day it was done. Priced at over $2 million it is probably the most expensive work in the fair. 
 Goya, with his satirical prints of daily life, is much in evidence; you can track him down at R. S. Johnson Fine Art, from Chicago, and C. G. Boerner, a New York dealer. The 16th-century Dutch artist Hendrick Goltzius was a sublime printmaker; witness, for instance, ''The Holy Family Under the Cherry Tree'' (1589), an engraving at Jan Johnson, from Canada.
 The early modern period provides several highs, in Fernand Leger's ''Woman Holding a Vase'' (1928) at William Weston Gallery, from London, and a display of English linocuts at Osborne Samuel, another London dealer. John Szoke, from New York, has dedicated his booth to a wraparound show of Picasso prints and drawings, including a sketch of a young girl from around 1897, done when the artist was 16.
 Admirers of experimental printmaking are also catered to, though largely in smaller booths at the back and sides of the building where the displays tend to be more colorful and eccentric. There is a funky suite of Christian Marclay cyanotypes of cassette tapes at Graphicstudio/USF, a small publishing house in Tampa, Fla. These are more photographs than prints, further extending the fair's already dizzying variety. 
 BENJAMIN GENOCCHIO

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Cassette Grid No. 1'' (2009) by Christian Marclay is one of the more colorful and experimental offerings at the International Fine Print Dealers Association Fair, at the Park Avenue Armory.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GRAPHICSTUDIO/USF, TAMPA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); STREET ART (78%); PAINTING (78%); EXHIBITIONS (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (74%); PUBLISHING (69%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (69%); RELIGION (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (88%); EUROPE (73%); GERMANY (58%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009



178 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Final Arguments Against 2 In Bear Stearns Fraud Case

BYLINE: By ZACHERY KOUWE

 BODY:
Prosecutors spent nearly three hours on Thursday wrapping up their case against two former Bear Stearns hedge fund managers, arguing that the two knew their funds were in trouble in the spring of 2007 and had lied to investors. 
 ''If you are trusted with other people's money on Wall Street, you can't defraud them,'' an assistant United States attorney, Ilene Jaroslaw, told jurors in her closing remarks. The two men, Ralph Cioffi and Matthew Tannin, acted like ''masters of the universe'' and ''thought the laws and rules applied to everyone else but them,'' she added.
 Mr. Cioffi is also facing insider trading charges on allegations that he moved $2 million he had invested in one of the failing hedge funds to another less risky fund while telling investors he was adding to his position. 
 ''This case is not about hedge fund strategy or what happened in the market in 2007,'' Ms. Jaroslaw told the jury, which is expected to begin deliberations next week at the federal courthouse in Brooklyn. 
 ''What it is about, is the two defendants lied to their investors. It's not about the future,'' she added, ''but a case of black and white lies.''
 The case is the first against prominent Wall Street executives charged with fraud stemming from the financial crisis. While prosecutors tried to boil down the case to comments made in several e-mail messages written by Mr. Cioffi and Mr. Tannin, the defense countered that the government had misled the jury.
 Dane Butswinkas, Mr. Cioffi's main lawyer, said prosecutors have taken the e-mail out of context and provided ''misleading sound bites'' to try to prove a criminal conspiracy when there was none. He said the details of the strategies used by the two hedge funds run by the men and the context of the communications from Mr. Cioffi and Mr. Tannin raised doubts about the prosecution's case.
 ''If you look at some of the tactics I just showed you, do they make you pause?'' Mr. Butswinkas asked the jury. ''If they would, then that's reasonable doubt.''
 In many ways, the case is a test of whether the government can successfully prosecute financial fraud in an era when complex investments like collateralized loan obligations and subprime mortgages can confuse jurors with little background in finance.
 Mr. Butswinkas is expected to continue his closing remarks on Friday followed by a statement by Mr. Tannin's lawyers. The two men could face prison terms of up to 20 years if convicted. 
 The government relies heavily on a private e-mail message from Mr. Tannin to Mr. Cioffi in April 2007, in which he relies on a mortgage model prepared by another Bear Stearns colleague who was not charged in the case. In the message, Mr. Tannin said that if the model was correct, ''the whole subprime market is toast'' and they should close the funds immediately.
 Three days earlier, on a conference call with the funds' investors, Mr. Cioffi and Mr. Tannin expressed confidence about the prospects of their investments and said they saw ''opportunities'' in the market. When an investor asked if any other investors were taking money out of the funds, Mr. Cioffi said there were only a ''couple of million'' in coming redemptions.
 The government claims Mr. Cioffi lied at that point because he knew of a pending $57 million withdrawal that had been requested by a big investor, Concord Management. 
 The defense argued that Mr. Tannin had misinterpreted the research report and suggested that the ''toast'' comment actually meant the funds would make money because of the hedges they had put on their investments.
 In his remarks, Mr. Butswinkas said that, instead of misleading investors on conference calls in March and April, Mr. Cioffi was expressing his sincere optimism about the future of the funds and, if the funds' lenders had not called in their lines of credit, his strategy would have eventually turned a profit for the funds' investors. 
 Mr. Cioffi, whose wife and children have attended the proceedings nearly every day, seemed confident he would be exonerated as he chatted with family members and friends before closing statements.
 ''You can listen to the government call me a bum for three hours, and then my lawyers will get up and set the record straight,'' he told a friend.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Two former Bear Stearns hedge fund managers, Matthew Tannin, left, and Ralph Cioffi, arriving at a federal court in Brooklyn.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATALIE BEHRING/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (91%); JURY TRIALS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (86%); LAWYERS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); CONSPIRACY (76%); INSIDER TRADING (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (60%); SUBPRIME LENDING (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009



179 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'COLLAPSE'; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Single Focus: An Outsider With Doomsday Vision

BYLINE: By JEANNETTE CATSOULIS

 BODY:
''What movie did you see last night?''
 ''A documentary called 'Collapse.' ''
 ''What's it about?''
 ''It's just one guy explaining why human civilization in its present form is doomed.''
 ''Huh. But did you have a good time?'' 
 Well, that depends. Factor in variables like personal ideology, current-affairs savvy and where you land on the temperamental continuum between optimism and pessimism, and you will leave the theater either fortified with told-you-so smugness or slightly wobbly on your pins. A chilling monologue of imminent catastrophe, ''Collapse'' is not just sobering; it's a full-on assault. Filmed over two days last March, in the basement of an abandoned meatpacking plant in downtown Los Angeles, it showcases the singular obsession of the author Michael C. Ruppert, a former Los Angeles police officer and investigative journalist who has seen industrial society's tipping point -- in the rearview mirror.
 Since 2001, Mr. Ruppert has devoted his life, two books and a self-published newsletter to connecting the dots between population, economics and energy, and concluding that the center will not hold. Lucidly and with weary conviction, he cites evidence for a declining global oil supply (like costly offshore drilling in Saudi Arabia) and demolishes hopes pinned on substitutes like ethanol (''a complete joke'') and clean coal (''no such thing''). 
 His well-rehearsed rhetoric is shockingly persuasive, and since the majority of his premises are verifiable, any weakness in his argument lies in inferences so terrifying that reasonable listeners may find themselves taking his advice and stocking up on organic seeds. (Those with no access to land can, postapocalypse, use them as currency.) 
 Though illustrated here and there with snippets of crude animation and archival film, ''Collapse'' -- based on Mr. Ruppert's book ''A Presidential Energy Policy'' -- is for the most part just a man, a chair and a smoking cigarette. The austerity of the surroundings evokes both a monk's quarters and a prison cell. Along with the predatory camera and agitated, Philip Glass-style score (by Didier Leplae and Joe Wong), the setting seems designed to kindle associations with the work of Errol Morris, particularly his filming of Robert S. McNamara in ''The Fog of War.''
 Off-camera interjections by the director, Chris Smith, heighten the resemblance, though where Mr. Morris adopted an insistent, bullying tone, Mr. Smith sounds more detached. At times the film dances dangerously close to parody, revealing a faintly mocking undercurrent that surfaces when, for instance, Mr. Ruppert expresses his belief that those running the world have lost control, and the director cuts abruptly to stock footage of what appears to be the captain of the Titanic.
 Mr. Smith's back catalog is still small, but it's clear that he shares with Mr. Morris an attraction to people gripped by vainglorious passions. His style, however, can verge on cruel: his ghoulish attention to the ailing uncle of Mark Borchardt, the Milwaukee misfit at the center of the 1999 documentary ''American Movie,'' suggests a filmmaker troublingly lacking in empathy. Here, his clinical, interrogation-style setup of Mr. Ruppert may be inspired by his subject's past confrontation with the C.I.A., but it also plucks uncomfortably at the fine line between shining a light on society's outsiders and exploiting them. 
 The joke, if there is one, misfires. Maintaining his dignity in an environment that seems custom designed to diminish him, Mr. Ruppert, who looks like your favorite high-school math teacher and lives in California with his beloved dog, Rags, resists becoming merely an oddball specimen. Presiding over collapses both financial (he is currently behind on his rent and facing eviction) and spiritual, he exhibits the deflated resignation of someone who's tired of banging a drum that few care to hear.
 ''We have waited so long for someone to listen to us,'' he blurts out emotionally as the film is winding down, and the outburst is unexpectedly moving. Delusional thinker or tragic prophet (he predicted the current financial crisis almost five years ago), Mr. Ruppert emerges finally as an authentic human being, sympathetic even when the film that embraces him is not.
 COLLAPSE
 Opens on Friday in Manhattan. 
 Directed by Chris Smith; based on the book ''A Presidential Energy Policy'' by Michael C. Ruppert; directors of photography, Max Malkin and Ed Lachman; edited by Barry Poltermann; music by Didier Leplae and Joe Wong; produced by Kate Noble; released by Vitagraph films and FilmBuff. At the Angelika Film Center, Mercer and Houston Streets, Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 22 minutes. This film is not rated. 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 17, 2009

 CORRECTION:
 A film review on Nov. 6 about ''Collapse'' referred incorrectly to the use of stock footage of what appears to be the captain of the Titanic. It is presented in the context of people in positions of authority having lost control; it is not introduced ''abruptly.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Connecting the dots between oil, population and energy: the author Michael C. Ruppert is the subject of a documentary.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BLUEMARK FILMS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); FILM (89%); MOVIE FILMING (78%); ANIMATION (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); ALCOHOLS (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (66%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED STATES (71%)

TITLE: Collapse (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009



180 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 2415 words

HEADLINE: THE LISTINGS

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
JAZZ
 Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music. 
 CLAUDIA ACUNA (Thursday) ''En Este Momento'' (Marsalis Music) is the most rewarding album by this Chilean jazz singer in some time. Offering original material and songs by the Chilean singer-songwriter Victor Jara (among others), Ms. Acuna radiates ardor and acuity, connecting easily with a band that includes the guitarist Juancho Herrera, who reappears here. (Through Nov. 15.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan , (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; $25. (Nate Chinen)20091105
 AFRO LATIN JAZZ ORCHESTRA (Friday) Arturo O'Farrill, the pianist and bandleader of this spit-and-polish big band, unveils a commission called ''Wise Latina Woman'' in honor of his fellow Nuyorican, Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor. Among this program's other enticements is an appearance by the pianist Randy Weston (playing his ''African Sunrise Suite'') and a selection of favorite arrangements from the Afro Latin Jazz Orchestra book. At 8 p.m., Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street , (212) 864-5400, symphonyspace.org; $35 in advance; $40 day of show; $30 for members; $20 for students. (Chinen)20091105 
 DAVE ALLEN TRIO/LOGAN RICHARDSON TRIO (Friday) Dave Allen, a guitarist with a coolly modernistic sensibility, appears here with a bass-and-drums rhythm team at 7 and 9 p.m., drawing partly from ''Real and Imagined'' (Fresh Sound New Talent), his most recent album. In the later sets, at 11 p.m. and 12:30 a.m., the bright young alto saxophonist Logan Richardson leads a trio of his own, also with just bass and drums. Bar Next Door, 129 Macdougal Street, West Village , (212) 529-5945, lalanternacaffe.com; cover, $6 at 7 p.m. and 12:30 a.m.; $12 at 9 and 11 p.m.; with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)20091105
 'THE MUSIC OF ''BLACK ORPHEUS'' ' (Friday through Sunday) Inspired by Antonio Carlos Jobim's influential 1959 film soundtrack, this engagement features the bassist Nilson Matta and his Brazilian Voyage band, with the astute pianist Kenny Barron, the effervescent drummer Paulo Braga and others. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set on Friday and Saturday, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway , (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)20091105
 GAL COSTA AND ROMERO LUBAMBO (Tuesday through Thursday) A founding member of the Tropicalia movement in Brazil more than 40 years ago, Ms. Costa has continued to apply her appealing voice to a kaleidoscopic array of grooves. In Mr. Lubambo, the finest guitarist in Brazilian jazz, she has an exquisitely sensitive duo partner. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village , (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; cover, $55 at tables, $35 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)20091105
 LOU DONALDSON QUINTET (Friday through Sunday) Bebop, blues and boogaloo are all fair game for the veteran alto saxophonist Lou Donaldson, whose supportive section comprises Lou Bianchi on organ, Randy Johnston on guitar and Fukushi Tainaka on drums. At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village , (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; cover, $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)20091105
 KAT EDMONSON (Wednesday) Ms. Edmonson, from Austin, Tex., is a promising young jazz singer with a kittenish voice and an amiably relaxed style, as she demonstrates on ''Take Me to the Sky'' (Convivium), her debut. She appears here with a number of the musicians from the album, including the saxophonist John Ellis. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan , (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $20. (Chinen)20091105
 ENDANGERED SPECIES: THE MUSIC OF WAYNE SHORTER (Wednesday) This tribute to one of jazz's greatest living composers is led by David Weiss, a skilled arranger for large ensembles. In this one he marshals talent like his fellow trumpeters Avishai Cohen and Diego Urcola, and the saxophonists J. D. Allen and Marcus Strickland. At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street , (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; cover, $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)20091105
 STEVE GADD AND FRIENDS (Friday through Sunday) A drummer of expansive studio credentials and at least as much grounding in pop as in jazz, Steve Gadd takes one of his infrequent laps as a bandleader here. The friends in question are worthy partners: the baritone saxophonist Ronnie Cuber, the Hammond B-3 organist Joey DeFrancesco and the guitarist Paul Bollenback. At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street , (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; $35, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)20091105
 JIM HALL QUARTET (Tuesday through Thursday) Jim Hall's economical style and deep harmonic command have made him a quietly imposing hero of jazz guitar. For his first weeklong engagement in some time, he enlists the alto saxophonist Greg Osby, the bassist Steve LaSpina and the drummer Joey Baron: musicians of purpose and personality. (Through Nov. 14.) At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton , (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; cover, $30 and $40, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)20091105
 VIJAY IYER TRIO (Friday through Sunday) ''Historicity'' (ACT), likely to rank among this year's most inventively purposeful jazz releases, finds the pianist and composer Vijay Iyer investigating the very premise of a repertory album, with restive versions of songs by (among others) M.I.A. and Andrew Hill. He celebrates the album's release here, with the same bassist, Stephan Crump, and a worthy substitute drummer, Justin Brown. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set on Friday and Saturday, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan , (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; $30; $25 on Sunday. (Chinen)20091105
 LIVING JAZZ LEGENDS (Thursday) The two musicians headlining this installment of the long-running Highlights in Jazz Series -- both legends, both very much living -- share a foothold in nimble swing. Buddy DeFranco, a peerless jazz clarinetist, appears in a group that includes the guitarist Joe Cohn and the bassist Jay Leonhart; Bucky Pizzarelli, an irrepressible guitarist, leads a band featuring his sons, John Pizzarelli (guitar) and Martin Pizzarelli (bass), along with the veteran drummer Mickey Roker. At 8 p.m., TriBeCa Performing Arts Center, Borough of Manhattan Community College, 199 Chambers Street, near West Street , (212) 220-1460, tribecapac.org; $35; $32.50 for students. (Chinen)20091105
 LAGE LUND 4 (Saturday) Drawing partly from ''Early Songs'' (Criss Cross), his most recent album, the cool-tempered and proficient Norwegian guitarist Lage Lund leads a promising band with Pete Rende on piano, Matt Clohesy on bass and Jochen Rueckert on drums. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village , (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; $15; $10 for members. (Chinen)20091105
 CHRISTIAN MCBRIDE AND INSIDE STRAIGHT (Tuesday through Thursday) On his most recent album, ''Kind of Brown'' (Mack Avenue), Mr. McBride, an effortlessly charismatic bassist, focuses on his version of the hard-bop tradition. Drawing from the album here, he regroups most of its cast -- the alto saxophonist Steve Wilson, the vibraphonist Warren Wolf and the drummer Carl Allen -- along with the pianist Peter Martin. (Through Nov. 14.) At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village , (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; cover, $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)20091105
 JOHN MCNEIL QUARTET (Wednesday) The trumpeterJohn McNeil specializes in a small-group jazz of springy but mildly subversive aims, and he's at his best with a strong sparring partner. In this working band he locks horns with the abundantly gifted young tenor saxophonist Noah Preminger. From 9 p.m. to 1 a.m., Puppet's Jazz Bar, 481 Fifth Avenue, at 11th Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn , (718) 499-2622, puppetsjazz.com; cover, $6, with a two-item minimum. (Chinen)20091105
 MULGREW MILLER AND WINGSPAN (Tuesday through Thursday) Mr. Miller is a pianist with an earthy style and a particular gift for the blues. But in this ensemble he pursues an airier sensibility, with help from sharp accompanists like the alto saxophonist Antonio Hart, the vibraphonist Steve Nelson and the trumpeter Duane Eubanks. (Through Nov. 15.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway , (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)20091105
 NUBLU JAZZ FESTIVAL (Friday through Thursday) For the last seven years the East Village club Nublu has promulgated a downtown mix of jazz, club music and international groove. For much of this month a similar sound prevails at its first annual jazz festival, with artists like the Inbetweens, led by the bassist Noah Jarrett (Saturday); the Seamus Blake Trio, led by its namesake saxophonist (Sunday); the drummer Ben Perowsky and his Moodswing Orchestra (Monday); and the trumpeters Eddie Henderson and Kirk Knuffke (both Thursday). At 9 and 10:30 p.m. and midnight, Nublu, 62 Avenue C, between Fourth and Fifth Streets, East Village , nublu.net; cover, $10. (Chinen)20091105
 JESSICA PAVONE/CURHA-CHESTRA/SCOPA TRIO (Thursday) Ms. Pavone, playing violin as well as viola, presents ''wordless songs inspired by life's cast of characters,'' a project with the guitarist Brandon Seabrook, the bassist Jonti Siman and the drummer Harris Eisenstadt. Also on the bill are the Curha-chestra, a boisterous ensemble led by the trombonist Curtis Hasselbring; and Scopa Trio, an improvising group led by the trombonist Brian Drye. At 8:30 p.m., Zebulon, 258 Wythe Avenue, near Metropolitan Avenue, Williamsburg, Brooklyn , (718) 218-6934, myspace.com/zebuloncafeconcert; free. (Chinen)20091105
 JEREMY PELT QUINTET (Friday and Saturday) Jeremy Pelt, a trumpeter with a big tone, bracing technique and bold improvisational style, leads his locomotive band with J. D. Allen on tenor saxophone, Danny Grissett on piano, Dwayne Burno on bass and Darrell Green on drums. At 8, 10 and 11:30 p.m., Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street , (212) 864-6662, smokejazz.com; cover, $30. (Chinen)20091105
 DJANGO REINHARDT NY FESTIVAL (Friday through Sunday) This salute to the immortal Gypsy guitar hero, now in its 10th ebullient season, features a prominent inheritor of the style, the French guitarist Tchavolo Schmitt, and his nephew Samson Schmitt. Another contributing guitarist, Andreas Oberg, joins the party from Sweden; an accordionist, Ludovic Beier, comes from Paris. Also on tap are a succession of guests, including the harpist Edmar Castaneda (Friday), the harmonica specialist Hendrik Meurkens (Saturday) and the washboard percussionist David Langlois (Sunday). At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton , (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; $35 and $45, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)20091105
 MARK SOSKIN QUARTET (Friday and Saturday) On ''Man Behind the Curtain'' (Kind of Blue), the pianist Mark Soskin marshals an ace group that includes the saxophonist Ravi Coltrane. There's no such star power in this group, but about as much insight, thanks to the guitarist Vic Juris, the bassist Jay Anderson and the drummer Billy Drummond. At 10:30 p.m. and midnight, Smalls, 183 West 10th Street, West Village , (212) 252-5091, smallsjazzclub.com; cover, $20. (Chinen)20091105
 ESPERANZA SPALDING (Wednesday) Having performed by now at the Newport Jazz Festival, in the current White House and, perhaps most dauntingly, for a good many skeptical New Yorkers, Ms. Spalding, a fresh-faced bassist and singer, qualifies as the modern-jazz equivalent of a star attraction. She can be an inconsistent bandleader, but for this first installment of a three-part Joyce Wein Series at Zankel Hall, she has the services of a dynamite drummer, Terri Lyne Carrington, along with her regular pianist, Leonardo Genovese. At 8:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall , (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $36 and $46. (Chinen)20091105
 SPYRO GYRA (Friday through Sunday) ''Down the Wire'' (Heads Up), the new album by this smooth-jazz group, occupies a middle ground between the funky and the slick. That's well-trod turf for the saxophonist Jay Beckenstein, who formed the band more than 30 years ago. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village , (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; cover, $35 at tables; $20 at the bar; with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)20091105
 BECCA STEVENS TRIO (Monday) Familiar to some listeners as the gutsy lead singer of Travis Sullivan's Bjorkestra, Becca Stevens recently self-released an impressive album, ''Tea Bye Sea.'' She draws from that wellspring here, working with a small rhythm section but backing herself capably on an array of stringed instruments. At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Bar Next Door, 129 Macdougal Street, West Village , (212) 529-5945, lalanternacaffe.com; cover, $12, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)20091105
 LEW TABACKIN QUARTET (Friday and Saturday) A garrulous tenor saxophonist and a lyrical flutist, Lew Tabackin leads a smartly sturdy quartet with Mike LeDonne on piano, Boris Kozlov on bass and Billy Drummond on drums. At 8 and 10 p.m., Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street , (212) 885-7119, kitano.com; cover, $25, with a $15 minimum. (Chinen)20091105
 ERICA VON KLEIST (Thursday) A dynamic saxophonist and flutist most visible in the ranks of a couple of high-profile big bands, Ms. von Kleist surrounds herself with solid support here: the trumpeter Nadje Noordhuis, the tenor saxophonist Chris Ward, the pianist Zaccai Curtis, the bassist Luques Curtis and the drummer John Davis. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village , (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org. First set: $15; $10 for members. Second set: $10; $5 for members. (Chinen)20091105
 DOUG WAMBLE (Friday) Mr. Wamble specializes in a rustic Southern sound, from the bluesy cry of his vocals to the quavering twang of his acoustic guitar. But he's a boundary-pusher in terms of repertory and ensemble interplay, as he'll demonstrate here. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village , (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; $15; $10 for members. (Chinen)20091105

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Esperanza Spalding: This bassist and singer ''qualifies as the modern-jazz equivalent of a star attraction,'' Nate Chinen writes. Ms. Spalding performs on Wednesday at Carnegie Hall, the first installment of a three-part Joyce Wein Series at Zankel Hall.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAZZ EN LA COSTA FESTIVAL/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAZZ & BLUES (93%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC REVIEWS (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (79%); MOVIE SOUNDTRACKS (73%); SONG WRITING (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); SUPREME COURTS (53%)

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (50%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%)

PERSON: SONIA SOTOMAYOR (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009



181 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL NOTEBOOK; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: Apples, Apples, Apples

BYLINE: By VERLYN KLINKENBORG

 BODY:
One good way to think about modern agriculture is to think about apples. For part of our history, culminating around the end of the 19th century, there was something about us -- about our appetite, our farms, our economy -- that loved diversity in apples. One standard reference, from 1905, lists more than 6,500 distinct varieties. There are apples for keeping, cooking, eating and the making of ciders, with names as colorful as they are various: Scollop Gillyflower, Red Winter Pearmain, Kansas Keeper. 
 Modern agriculture, as well as our carefully created preference for processed over fresh food, has pushed us in the opposite direction, toward uniformity. Apple production has been outsourced, driven to China like so much else. And even in formerly great apple-growing states, including New York, the number of different apples has greatly diminished. According to one estimate, only 11 varieties make up 90 percent of all the apples sold in this country, and Red Delicious alone counts for nearly half of that. 
 The good news is that apple trees don't vanish when the harvest is over. Nor are they solely commercial. Every farmer, every homesteader in an apple climate, seems to have planted an apple tree. Many have been lost, but some still stand -- old, overgrown trees producing long-forgotten varieties.
 Researchers from the National Center for Genetic Resources Preservation have been studying genetic markers in 280 venerable apple trees growing on old farmsteads in the Southwest. Some came from commercial nurseries, others from agriculture experiment stations, but most were unique. 
 Those trees are an archive of apple diversity, holding out the possibility of preserving apple genotypes that might otherwise have vanished. But the research makes a broader point. If all that 19th-century apple diversity reflected different purposes and different needs, it also reflected a taste for difference. So the next apple you buy, think about all its hundreds and thousands of abandoned cousins. Think also of the agricultural biodiversity they represented; think, too, of the diversity of tastes that made them possible. 
 We live now in the world of the generic apple, in large part because our taste buds have gone generic. Cultivating ourselves is the first step toward rediversifying the fields and orchards around us. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); APPLE ORCHARDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CROP RESEARCH (78%); BIODIVERSITY (78%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (78%); NURSERY & TREE PRODUCTION (77%); GENETIC MARKERS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009



182 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 3988 words

HEADLINE: THE LISTINGS

BYLINE: Selective listings from art critics of The New York Times.

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 Museums
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'THOMAS CHAMBERS (1808-1869): AMERICAN MARINE AND LANDSCAPE PAINTER,' through March 7. With this extraordinary show, a star is born, or rediscovered, or at least given a big museum survey for the first time since 1942. Chambers painted typical 19th-century fare -- Hudson River landscapes and marine views of ships, harbors and naval battles -- in an entrancing, slightly demonic style that was neither strictly realist nor naive. His paintings are like chorus lines singing and dancing their hearts out, ever so slightly off-key and out of step. They amplify the understanding of the visual appetite by satisfying it so thoroughly. Chambers may have been the first American artist to have grasped -- as Cezanne and Seurat would -- the implicitly geometric nature of reality. It makes sense that even in 1942 he was called ''America's first modern.'' 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith)20091105 
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: PATRICIA CRONIN: 'HARRIET HOSMER, LOST AND FOUND,' through Jan. 24. The contemporary New York artist Patricia Cronin channels the life and art of the 19th-century American sculptor Harriet Hosmer (1830-1908) in a show of watercolor depictions of Hosmer's works, both those that survived and those no longer traceable. Ms. Cronin has also published the watercolors -- including her ghost images of missing works -- in a scholarly book that stands as a Hosmer catalogue raisonne. The result is a complex package: a total work of art that is a historical document of the careers of two artists and a homage by one woman to another. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Holland Cotter)20091105
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'REFLECTIONS ON THE ELECTRIC MIRROR: NEW FEMINIST VIDEO,' through Jan. 10. Q: What is feminist video? A: A good way to reduce overcrowding in museums. Unless, that is, you are referring to this entertaining exhibition of recent videos by nine artists featuring the creators themselves as performers. Works by Klara Liden, Kate Gilmore, Cathy Begien and the team of Harry Dodge and Stanya Kahn are variously funny, dark and poetic. Starring in antique-looking, silent-movie-style commercials, Shannon Plumb is a wonderfully agile physical comedian. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson)20091105
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'WHO SHOT ROCK & ROLL: A PHOTOGRAPHIC HISTORY, 1955 TO THE PRESENT,' through Jan. 31. This entertaining exhibition presents more than 175 images of rock stars by 105 photographers. It includes album cover art, candid snapshots, publicity portraits and pictures of live performances. The downside is that only a few photographs rise to the level of fine art, and the general focus is on only the most famous and familiar musicians, from Elvis Presley to Kurt Cobain. There are some nice surprises, though, like a small Polaroid of Courtney Love on which she wrote a rude salutation. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Johnson)20091105
 FRICK COLLECTION: 'WATTEAU TO DEGAS: FRENCH DRAWINGS FROM THE FRITS LUGT COLLECTION,' through Jan. 10. Ranging from Watteau and Fragonard to Ingres and Degas, 64 works from a celebrated Parisian repository offer a gratifying immersion in 18th- and 19th-century French draftsmanship. For urbanity, vivacity and technical merit, these artists remain in a league of their own. 1 East 70th Street, at Fifth Avenue , (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Johnson)20091105
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'KANDINSKY,' through Jan. 13. The Guggenheim is not exactly thinking outside the spiral with this sleek retrospective, but then the pioneering abstractionist Wassily Kandinsky (1866-1944) is more than just its foundational artist. He is the angel in the architecture. His swirling, unanchored abstractions are implicit in Frank Lloyd Wright's great circling rotunda, and now they fill it, bottom to top -- a sensational sight that is as much Kandinsky-Wright reunion as retrospective. One of the fullest, clearest views of Kandinsky's achievement in decades, it certainly unmoors the conventional wisdom of precipitous decline after 1921, if not 1914. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street , (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Smith)20091105
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'ANISH KAPOOR,' through March 28. This exhibition by the celebrated British sculptor consists of just one work, but it's a doozy. Viewable only from three partial perspectives, ''Memory'' is an enormous, egg-shaped volume of Cor-Ten steel, wedged into a boxy side gallery like a dirigible that drifted off course and got stuck. One approach offers only a square window allowing you to behold the impenetrable, seemingly infinite darkness inside. Call it a womb with a view. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street , (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Johnson)20091105
 JAPAN SOCIETY: 'SERIZAWA: MASTER OF JAPANESE TEXTILE DESIGN,' through Jan. 17. Serizawa Keisuke (1895-1984), one of the most prominent Japanese artisans of the 20th century, transformed paper and fabric with intricate, hand-cut stencils. His art updated, and some might say elevated, centuries-old crafts with allusions to Korean folk art, Chinese calligraphy, Aesop's Fables, Indian miniatures and Western midcentury Modernism. This handsomely installed show includes an early artist's-book adaptation of ''Don Quixote,'' as well as curtains, screens and kimonos from Serizawa's mature and productive postwar years. 333 East 47th Street, (212) 832-1155, japansociety.org. (Karen Rosenberg)20091105
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'AMERICAN STORIES: PAINTINGS OF EVERYDAY LIFE, 1765-1915,' through Jan. 24. This exhibition of 103 figurative paintings and portraits that the museum justifiably calls ''iconic'' spans the Colonial period to World War I, touching on issues like the settling of the West and the Civil War and its legacy. Many of the works are masterpieces by artists like John Singleton Copley, George Caleb Bingham, William Sidney Mount, Winslow Homer, Thomas Eakins, Mary Cassatt and George Bellows that will in all likelihood not be gathered together anytime soon. Others are little-known gems of genre painting; many more are less gemlike genre works full of plots, props and stilted emotions. The result is refreshingly evenhanded. Art historical viewpoints previously too often considered mutually exclusive -- pro-narrative versus pro-form -- are synthesized. The paintings benefit tremendously from the mix, as will your understanding of American art and history. A thrilling, illuminating show. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20091105
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'ART OF THE SAMURAI: JAPANESE ARMS AND ARMOR, 1156-1868,' through Jan. 10. This sumptuous exhibition alternates between extraordinarily gorgeous, intricately wrought suits of armor that count as some of the world's greatest works of multimedia art and an unprecedented gathering of some 60 bare sword blades whose Minimalist subtleties of line, proportion and surface form a show within a show. In between are amazing helmets; ornate sword mountings and fittings; scroll paintings of samurai dressed to kill; and the colorful surcoats they traditionally wore over their armor. Nearly all of the 200-plus works come from Japan's museums; about half have been designated National Treasures or Important Cultural Properties by the Japanese government. Because of their extreme fragility, not all objects will be on view at once: about 60 pieces will be replaced by similar objects of equal caliber during the first week in December. Visit early and often. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20091105
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'LOOKING IN: ROBERT FRANK'S ''THE AMERICANS,'' ' through Jan. 3. In the mid-1950s the Swiss-born photographer Robert Frank made three long car trips from New York City across the United States, through the Deep South to California, and back again by a northern route, taking thousands of pictures as he went. He needed a year to develop, print and edit them down to the 83 that made up his classic book, ''The Americans,'' which was panned for its pessimism in his day, and sanctified for its political prescience since. The Met show, and the huge book that accompany it, are basically monuments to that monument. If ''The Americans'' looks more formulaic in its sentiments than it did 50 years, that is because it has had so many imitators and the country it captured has changed. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. ( Cotter)20091105
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'TIBETAN ARMS AND ARMOR FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION,' through fall 2010. The paradox of militant Buddhism inspired the Metropolitan's fascinating 2006 exhibition ''Warriors of the Himalayas: Rediscovering the Arms and Armor of Tibet.'' Now Donald LaRocca, the museum's arms and armor curator, has created a follow-up installation of 35 objects from the Met's collection (including 5 acquired in 2007). This time the focus is on defense rather than offense: examples of horse and body armor, dating from the 15th through the 20th centuries, outnumber swords, guns and spears. Most of these objects have seen more ceremonial than military action. All of them equate supreme craftsmanship with defense of the body and Buddhist principles. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20091105
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'VERMEER'S MASTERPIECE ''THE MILKMAID,'' ' through Nov. 29. This small contextual show surrounds ''The Milkmaid'' (1657-58) with all five of the Met's Vermeers and a smattering of domestic scenes by other 17th-century masters, among them Pieter de Hooch, Gabriel Metsu and Nicolaes Maes. The 18-inch-high ''Milkmaid'' is one of Vermeer's strangest and best works. In this arresting treatment of a prosaic subject -- a young woman laboring in the kitchen -- Vermeer forsakes his well-known optical sensations for earthier pleasures. And in unprecedented fashion, he endows this domestic worker with traits typically reserved for higher-class women: virtue, diligence and a rich interior life. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20091105
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'WATTEAU, MUSIC, AND THEATER,' through Nov. 29. Informed by new research in music and theater, this show highlights the influence of the performing arts on paintings, drawings and prints by Jean-Antoine Watteau (1684-1721) and his contemporaries. It includes several elaborate fetes galantes and smaller works depicting actors and musicians, and cultivates an atmosphere of civilized hedonism. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20091105
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'CINNABAR: THE CHINESE ART OF CARVED LACQUER,' through Feb. 21. The exhibition's approximately 50 carved lacquer dishes, platters, boxes, vases and other domestic objects -- including a spectacular folding screen -- are as engrossing for their formal beauty as for their amazing craftsmanship. The pigment cinnabar gives them a rich, dark red color, and intricate patterns, ornamental animals and pastoral vignettes carved and incised into their lustrous surfaces make every object a pleasure to behold. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20091105
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'ROXY PAINE ON THE ROOF: MAELSTROM,' through Nov. 29. An awesome spectacle awaits visitors to the museum's roof garden: a gnarly thicket of trees and branches extending from one end of the open-air deck to the other. It looks as if a tornado had ripped through Central Park and deposited its gleanings here -- except that it is all made of shiny metal pipe, as if all that wood had been transformed by someone with a stainless-steel Midas touch. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20091105
 MONTCLAIR ART MUSEUM: 'CEZANNE AND AMERICAN MODERNISM,' through Jan. 3. Including early works by Dove, Hartley, Gorky and more than 25 others, this fascinating show explores the art history-changing influence of Cezanne on American artists between 1907 and 1930. Nothing by the American artists looks as good as any of the 18 Cezannes on view, but the exhibition and its hefty, richly informative catalog are revelatory. 3 South Mountain Avenue, Montclair, N.J. , (973) 746-5555, montclairartmuseum.org. (Johnson)20091105
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'ROCOCO AND REVOLUTION: EIGHTEENTH-CENTURY FRENCH DRAWINGS,' through Jan. 3. The art of drawing does not get much better than this. The nearly 80 works selected from the Morgan's own collection include excellent pieces by most of the era's best known artists, from the Rococoists Watteau and Fragonard to Neo-Classicists like Jacques-Louis David and Etienne Louis Boullee. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street , (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Johnson)20091105
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'WILLIAM BLAKE'S WORLD: ''A NEW HEAVEN IS BEGUN,''' through Jan. 3. Artist, poet and irritated ecstatic, William Blake listed as his primary residence the Imagination, a combination of creative command post and psychological refuge where, as he put it, the eternal and the real meet. You'll see a good amount of both in this show, drawn from the Morgan's deep holdings of Blake's hand-printed-and-painted books and from the entire series of 21 watercolor illustrations he made for ''The Book of Job.'' 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street , (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Cotter)20091105
 EL MUSEO DEL BARRIO: 'NEXUS NEW YORK: LATIN/AMERICAN ARTISTS IN THE MODERN METROPOLIS,' through Feb. 28. A bright light at the top of Museum Mile, the city's premier Latino art center has reopened after a makeover with a dense, episodic and absorbing visual history of the Latino art presence in New York in the first half of the 20th century. As much an archival display as a standard art show, it focuses on luminous, culture-changing personalities, from the Mexican-born art impresario Marius de Zayas, who teamed up with Alfred Stieglitz to bring the first Picasso show to New York; to Joaquin Torres-Garcia, a Uruguayan who arrived here in 1920 and saw proto-Pop Art everywhere; to the Chilean Roberto Matta, who served as a dynamic agent for Old World Surrealism in the New World. In addition, El Museo now has its first permanent-collection gallery, with an installation, ''Voces y Visiones,'' that reaffirms historical connections to the nearby East Harlem neighborhood. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem , (212) 831-7272, elmuseo.org. (Cotter)20091105
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'COMPASS IN HAND: SELECTIONS FROM THE JUDITH ROTHSCHILD FOUNDATION CONTEMPORARY DRAWINGS COLLECTION,' through Jan. 4. The Modern's largest gift of drawings -- a windfall of 2,500 works by 650 artists -- started out as a kind of stunt and matured without becoming a triumph. Initially a yearlong shopping binge in pursuit of a ''cross section'' of drawing at a certain moment, it also tried to fill decades-old gaps in the Modern's drawing collection, often with works by familiar names. These dominate the sampling of the gift: a lackluster exhibition of 354 works by 177 artists that emphasizes the Modern's ambivalence about moving beyond the Minimalism/Post-Minimalist canon, and its tendency to pick big or hot names over truly great drawings. The bottom line? Connoisseurship matters. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20091105
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'WHAT WAS GOOD DESIGN? MOMA'S MESSAGE, 1944-1956,' through Nov. 30. With 102 objects and excellent labels, the Modern explores its role as arbiter of postwar American design, when, channeling the Bauhaus, it deemed good, affordable design a human right. Its campaign included exhibitions titled ''What Is Good Design?,'' design competitions and use of the MoMA seal of approval by selected department stores. Signature items like the Eames storage unit and the Chemex coffee maker mingle with surprises like a back-to-basics chair of string and wood by, of all people, Alexey Brodovitch, Harper's Bazaar's influential art director. The prevailing sense of beauty, restraint and economy is an implicit rebuke to today's inane material excesses. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20091105
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'MONET'S WATER LILIES,' through April 12. Devotees of late Monet can rejoice. The Museum of Modern Art has hung its three ''Water Lilies'' together for the first time since 2001, along with a relatively recent acquisition and two guests. That's six waterlily paintings, all completed in the last dozen years before the artist's death in 1926. In addition, these canvases are isolated from the onward march of Modernism according to MoMA, and their separateness emphasizes their meditative, immersive quality. But it also confirms their radical achievement. While bringing Monet's Impressionism to a grand conclusion, they also open the path to Abstract Expressionism. It can still stop you in your tracks. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20091105
 NEUE GALERIE: 'FROM KLIMT TO KLEE: MASTERWORKS FROM THE SERGE SABARSKY COLLECTION,' through Feb. 15. Serge Sabarsky, the art dealer and collector who founded the Neue Galerie with Ronald S. Lauder, never lived to see its 2001 opening. Most visitors to the museum know Mr. Sabarsky (1912-96) primarily through some of the Klimts and Schieles that rotate through the galleries and from the popular first-floor cafe that bears his name. They'll be better acquainted with him after a visit to this exhibition, the first at the Neue Galerie to focus exclusively on Mr. Sabarsky's acquisitions. The high point, for many viewers, will be the small second-floor room of drawings by Klimt, Schiele, Alfred Kubin and Oskar Kokoschka. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street , (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Rosenberg)20091105
 NEW MUSEUM: 'URS FISCHER: MARGUERITE DE PONTY,' through Feb. 7. Naming his first American museum show after a fictional character from Mallarme, the young Swiss sculptor Urs Fischer spreads himself thin, but brilliantly. Admirers of his gaping holes in walls may be disappointed by the sparseness, quiet and subtlety, but for the most part -- despite too much Surrealism 101 -- Mr. Fischer's neo-Dada formalism wins out. Nose-thumbing irreverence colludes with Minimalist space, scale and perception. Take this three-floor show from the top and watch worlds collide: abstraction, found objects and trompe l'oeil; the actual-size, the large and the enlarged; images, reflections and volumes. Each floor is a kind of implosion, although it only becomes obvious on the lowest. The perpetual twilight in the middle may be the most memorable moment. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side , (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Smith)20091105
 NOGUCHI MUSEUM: 'NOGUCHI REINSTALLED,' through Oct. 24, 2010. In anticipation of the museum's 25th anniversary in 2010, this show presents about 200 of Isamu Noguchi's works from the 1920s to the 1980s. They include sculptures in stone, wood, metal and clay; maquettes and models for parks and playgrounds; and props for Martha Graham dance productions. Though unfailingly suave, Noguchi's polished abstraction no longer has the urgency it once had, but the museum as a whole is a wonderful time capsule, and the sculpture garden he designed is utterly blissful. Noguchi Museum, 9-01 33rd Road, at Vernon Boulevard, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 204-7088, noguchi.org. (Johnson)20091105
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'LEANDRO ERLICH: SWIMMING POOL,' through March 1. From P.S. 1's first-floor hallway you step onto a wooden deck that surrounds a small, fully equipped swimming pool. Glowing lights built into the aqua walls light up watery depths below the gently churning surface. A flight of stairs leads to a lower level and a magical surprise. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)20091105
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'GEORGIA O'KEEFFE: ABSTRACTION,' through Jan. 17. The focus of this surprisingly surprising show is the first two decades of O'Keeffe's long career, beginning in 1915 when she made her first abstract drawings, which were also among the first fully abstract images by any American artist, and continuing into the 1930s, when she was spending increasing amounts of time alone in New Mexico. In between comes a body of bold, graphically punchy and sensuous painting that you tend to experience whole and fast, as you do a strong scent or a touch. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)20091105
 YALE CENTER FOR BRITISH ART: 'MRS. DELANY AND HER CIRCLE,' through Jan. 3. This fascinating show celebrates the contributions of the exemplary 18th-century Englishwoman Mary Delany to botany, the decorative arts and English court society. A widow twice over with no children, Mrs. Delany thrived in middle and old age as a naturalist, amateur artist and close friend to Handel, Jonathan Swift and the Duchess of Portland, among others. The exhibition includes her drawings, silhouettes and floral embroidery, and a selection from the ''Flora Delanica'': a series of some 1,000 botanical collages, begun when she was 72. 1080 Chapel Street, New Haven, (203) 432-2800, yale.edu/ycba. (Rosenberg)20091105
 Galleries: Chelsea
 SARAH ANNE JOHNSON: 'HOUSE ON FIRE,' through Nov. 14. This Canadian artist is trying to process some remarkable family history with the works in this show. In bronze sculptures, drawings on old photographs and newspaper clippings and a meticulously constructed dollhouse with a nightmarish interior, she alludes to her grandmother's mentally debilitating stay at a McGill University-affiliated psychiatric institution in the 1950s, where she underwent horrendous experimental treatments. Julie Saul, 535 West 22nd Street , (212) 627-2410, saulgallery.com. (Johnson)20091105
 Galleries: Other
 'ICONS OF THE DESERT: EARLY ABORIGINAL PAINTINGS FROM PAPUNYA,' through Dec. 5. With their bold, diagrammatic compositions; finely coordinated colors; and dotted textures, paintings by indigenous Australians appeal to Western eyes trained to respond to abstraction and folk and so-called outsider art. The paintings in this excellent show are mostly from the 1970s, the early years of the modern Aboriginal painting movement. Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village , (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart. (Johnson)20091105
 MIKE KELLEY AND MICHAEL SMITH: 'A VOYAGE OF GROWTH AND DISCOVERY,' through Nov. 30. This entertaining and thought-provoking exhibition features a six-channel video following Michael Smith, dressed as Baby Ikki in droopy diapers, bonnet and dark glasses, as he wanders around Burning Man, the weeklong celebration of all things psychedelic in the Nevada desert. With jungle-gym-like structures in the gallery and a towering junk-metal sculpture of Baby Ikki looming over all, the whole project represents Burning Man as a festival of infantilism. SculptureCenter, 44-19 Purves Street, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 361-1750, sculpture-center.org. (Johnson)20091105
 Last Chance
 FRANK STELLA: 'POLYCHROME RELIEF'; closes on Saturday. This erstwhile painter's unrepentant formalism neither wavers nor stands still. His latest progress is due to ProtoGen, a white resin that comes in sheets of varying thickness and allows an unusual combination of volume and weightlessness. Titled with the letter K in homage to the cataloging system of the Baroque composer Domenico Scarlatti, the works are dominated by coiled and spiral forms that levitate, billow and twist -- like sails, the robes in old master paintings and of course unanchored canvas. The forms are pierced and supported by thin steel tubes (rogue stretchers) that angle back and forth and sometimes evoke Bernini's ''St. Theresa in Ecstasy'' -- also Baroque. Paul Kasmin Gallery, 293 10th Avenue, at 27th Street, Chelsea , (212) 563-4474, paulkasmingallery.com. (Smith)20091105

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Japan Society: 'Serizawa': ''Portrait of Honen Shonin'' (1942), a hanging scroll of stencil-dyed silk, is included in this exhibition of works by one of the most prominent Japanese artisans of the 20th century, Serizawa Keisuke, closing on Jan. 17.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TOHOKU FUKUSHI UNIVERSITY SERIZAWA KEISUKE ART AND CRAFT MUSEUM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PAINTING (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); FILM (89%); POP & ROCK (88%); SCULPTURE (79%); PHOTOGRAPHY (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); DANCE (69%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); TOHOKU, JAPAN (74%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (74%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009



183 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; INSIDE ART; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Dia Plans To Return To Its Chelsea Roots

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
After years of scouring Manhattan real estate for a base in New York, a troubled process that was bedeviled by setbacks, the Dia Art Foundation has found a new home on the site of its old home. It is planning to build a space on the footprint of one of its previous Chelsea exhibition sites, a former garage at 545 West 22nd Street. 
 ''It's keeping our roots yet at the same time trying to evolve,'' said Nathalie de Gunzburg, chairman of Dia's board, who explained that after going through the exercise of looking at locations from Harlem to the Bowery, the board finally saw that the answer was, as she put it, ''right in front of us.'' 
 In 2004 Dia closed its two Chelsea spaces (its main operations were across the street at 548 West 22nd Street), saying they had outgrown the buildings. It rented out the former garage to the PaceWildenstein gallery under a lease that will expire in 2011. 
 Initially the foundation planned to open a museum at the entrance to the High Line, the abandoned elevated railway line that has now become a public park. But the board scrapped that project in 2006 after losing its longtime director, Michael Govan, who left to oversee the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, and its board chairman and biggest benefactor, Leonard Riggio. (The Whitney Museum of American Art is now planning a satellite space at that downtown site.) Dia's next director, Jeffrey Weiss, was given the task of finding a Manhattan site, but he resigned after nine months, saying he was ill suited to the administrative burdens of the post. 
 Since then Dia has been casting around for a toehold in the city. Philippe Vergne, its new director, called the decision to return to Chelsea -- now a thriving art center, but not when Dia moved there in 1986 and became one of the neighborhood's first spaces devoted to art -- ''the most logical solution.'' 
 ''We don't want a big museum,'' he said. ''New York has enough of them. I am more interested in an ambitious program than an ambitious building.'' 
 Mr. Vergne said Dia had no plans to hire a star architect or hold a formal design competition. ''No bling,'' Mr. Vergne said, ''rather a utilitarian envelope for art, a place where we can bring living artists back into the fold.'' 
 He and the trustees are in the process of drawing up a list of candidates and will soon conduct interviews. They hope to select an architect by the spring and to break ground in 2012. The budget has yet to be determined, both Ms. de Gunzburg and Mr. Vergne said. 
 The site gives Dia the potential for a home just shy of 50,000 square feet. ''We're looking for smart space, with flexible places to show commissioned artworks as well as long-term installations,'' Mr. Vergne said. 
 The roof will also be an important component. Dia is planning to install Dan Graham's ''Rooftop Urban Park Project,'' a 1991 architectural pavilion fashioned from two-way mirrored glass; the work had originally been on the roof of 548 West 22nd Street. Dia is also planning on space for public programs, including readings, lectures, symposiums and performances.
 Before its real estate odyssey began, Dia had a reputation for transforming existing structures into elegant art spaces, not erecting new ones. Its permanent collection -- works from the 1960s to the present -- is housed in Beacon, N.Y., in a six-year-old museum created from an abandoned 1929 box factory on the Hudson River. 
 The Manhattan and Beacon projects are just part of Dia's portfolio. The foundation also oversees several site-specific art installations, including three works by Walter De Maria: ''The New York Earth Room'' and ''Broken Kilometer,'' both in SoHo, and ''The Lightning Field,'' in New Mexico; and un untitled work by Dan Flavin in Bridgehampton, N.Y. In May 2007 Dia began a continuing collaboration with the Hispanic Society of America, presenting projects by contemporary artists in the society's home at Broadway and 155th Street in Washington Heights.
 OTTOMAN SPACE AT MET
 The Metropolitan Museum of Art has received a $10 million donation that will finance two new galleries for Ottoman art. The money comes from the Vehbi Koc Foundation, named for a Turkish entrepreneur who died in 1996. One gallery will showcase highlights from the royal court under the 16th-century sultan Suleyman the Magnificent; the other will be devoted to the museum's collection of Ottoman carpets, textiles, arms and armor. Both are to open in the fall of 2011. 
 MUSEUM RESTORES HOURS
 The Jewish Museum will soon restore all of the hours that it was forced to cut in July because of the economy, thanks to a $500,000 grant from the Leona M. and Harry B. Helmsley Charitable Trust. 
 Instead of closing at 5:45 on Thursday evenings, it will once again stay open until 8. The late hours begin on Nov. 19, a few days after the opening of ''Alias Man Ray: The Art of Reinvention,'' a major survey of his work.
 The grant also means that the galleries containing ''Culture and Continuity: The Jewish Journey,'' a permanent exhibition of more than 800 works from its holdings, will be open six days a week, instead of the four days they were cut to in July. (The museum is closed on Wednesdays.) 
 The Leona M. and Harry B. Helmsley Trust, which was established in 1999, started a new grant program in April.
 DONALD JUDD PROJECT
 Although it has been 15 years since the Minimalist sculptor Donald Judd died, only now are plans under way to compile and publish a catalogue raisonne of his work. This week his foundation announced the appointment of a committee headed by Katy Rogers, who is finishing the Robert Motherwell catalogue raisonne, a seven-year project overseen by the Dedalus Foundation. Other committee members include Flavin Judd, the artist's son, as well as scholars, curators and former studio assistants. 
 ''It's long overdue,'' said Barbara Hunt McLanahan, executive director of the Donald Judd Foundation. ''It's taken a while for the foundation to be fully operational.'' 
 Ms. McLanahan said she estimated the work would take 7 to 10 years to complete. The foundation is putting up the seed money, but how much it will cost, how many volumes it will be and whether it will be available in a digital format are all open questions, Ms. McLanahan said. In 1975 a catalogue raisonne of Judd's paintings, objects and woodblocks was published, but it covered work only created between 1960 and 1974. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Back to West 22nd Street in Chelsea: The Dia Art Foundation will construct a new exhibition space on the footprint of a two-story building, center left, that it owns but rents out.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); CITY LIFE (71%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009



184 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Readies Jobless Aid And Help On Homes

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and DAVID STOUT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
In separate actions to address Americans' continuing economic hardship, the government moved Thursday to assist long-unemployed workers and struggling businesses, as well as home buyers and homeowners facing foreclosure. 
 Fannie Mae, the federally controlled mortgage company, announced a Deed for Lease program in which those in danger of eviction may be able to stay as tenants in their houses for at least a year.
 At the same time, Congress gave final approval to a stimulus measure that will extend unemployment benefits for the longtime jobless, aid that will bring total assistance for many to nearly two years. Other provisions of the bill will expand two popular tax breaks -- one for home buyers, the other for businesses operating at a loss. 
 President Obama will sign the measure into law on Friday morning, aides said. That will allow him to deliver a bit of good news just as the government releases the monthly unemployment report, which is expected to confirm that the jobless rate remained around 10 percent in October.
 To that end, Democratic Congressional leaders expedited action on the legislation in recent days after six weeks of partisan wrangling in the Senate. The House, which passed a bill in September, voted Thursday by 403 to 12 to accept the version that the Senate finally approved unanimously on Wednesday. That sent the bill to the president.
 The measure provides up to 14 weeks of additional assistance to unemployed people who have exhausted their state and federal benefits, but up to 20 additional weeks to those in about 26 states with unemployment rates exceeding 8.5 percent. In the past two months, more than 600,000 out-of-work people have exhausted their benefits, according to the National Employment Law Project, a liberal advocacy group. The legislation will not restore aid retroactively. 
 The extension brings maximum state and federal unemployment compensation to 99 weeks, the longest ever, reflecting the severity of a recession that has thrown more people out of work for longer periods than at any other time since collection of such data began six decades ago, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities.
 Initial state benefits cover up to 26 weeks of unemployment, and federal aid is available after that. The $787 billion stimulus law enacted last winter provided emergency aid that extended coverage to as much as 79 weeks, and the new legislation builds on that.
 The stimulus law's emergency relief expires, however, at the end of the year. Congress and the White House plan to act before then to extend it into 2010 to assist Americans who are more recently unemployed or who may yet lose their jobs and find themselves unable to find work for a long time.
 To spur the housing market, the bill extends an $8,000 tax credit for first-time home buyers that was due to expire on Nov. 30, making it available to those who have a contract before May 1 on a primary residence priced at up to $800,000. The bill also creates a new credit of up to $6,500 for existing homeowners who buy a new residence if they have lived in their current one for at least five of the last eight years.
 Further expanding the number of eligible people, the measure raises the income limits for those claiming the credit to $125,000 a year for individuals and $225,000 for couples, up from $75,000 and $150,000. After that, the break begins phasing out.
 The Obama administration had been unenthusiastic about extending the home buyers' credit; many economists say most people claiming it would have bought homes anyway. 
 The bill also expands a stimulus law provision to allow any struggling business to deduct losses for 2008 and 2009 from profits in five previous profitable years, up from the usual two, and so get much-needed refunds. The original provision, due to expire at the end of the year, applied only to small businesses and to losses in 2008. 
 Because stimulus measures are generally intended to spur consumption and production by pumping money into the economy, the costs are typically not offset by savings elsewhere in the federal budget, lest that cancel the stimulative effect. But, reflecting concerns about high deficits, Congress did adopt ways to pay for the latest provisions.
 Expanding the home buyers' credit will cost about $11 billion, and the business loss deductions $10.4 billion. To pay for that, Congress further delayed a 2004 tax break for multinational corporations' worldwide interest expenses that has never taken effect, ''saving'' $20.1 billion over the coming decade.
 The $2.4 billion cost of the jobless benefits will be paid by extending into 2011 a surcharge on employers of $14 a worker that was enacted three decades ago as a temporary step.
 As for the Deed for Lease program announced by Fannie Mae, homeowners who want to participate must have mortgages that are guaranteed by the company and must have been unable to renegotiate with their lenders or to qualify for the Obama administration's loan modification program.
 Fannie Mae does not make loans directly to consumers but works with mortgage bankers, brokers and other partners in the primary mortgage market to help ensure that they have funds to lend at affordable rates. About 4.45 percent of Fannie Mae borrowers were seriously delinquent in September. Officials said they did not know how much the new program would cost or how many homeowners would be eligible.
 Those who benefit from the new program would have to give up the deed to their homes but would be able to rent them at a market rate for at least 12 months. Fannie Mae said some leases might be renewable on a month-to-month basis after that.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); APPROVALS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EVICTION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAX LAW (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); LIBERALISM (73%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (67%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009



185 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: Grand Plans for Rail In Denver Hit a Wall Of Fiscal Realities

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
One of the most ambitious one-time mass-transit projects in the nation's history, called FasTracks -- $4.7 billion, 122 miles of passenger rail and a hectic construction schedule of only 12 years -- was approved by voters here in 2004 along with a regionwide sales tax to pay for it.
 But these days, swagger has been replaced by supplication. Projected costs have ballooned to nearly $7 billion, and the system faces a budget gap of $2.2 billion, mainly because of a sharp drop in sales tax revenues. Worse still, most rail lines are still on the drawing board, and the 10,000 or so workers needed when construction reaches full swing beginning in 2011 have not yet been hired, muting the economic stimulus. 
 Voters could be presented with a proposed sales tax increase as early as next year to finish a system that remains mostly an idea.
 ''The world has changed,'' said Phillip A. Washington, the chief executive of the Regional Transportation District in Denver, which is managing the project. ''But that's all the more reason to do this stimulus package we call FasTracks.'' 
 For transit systems everywhere, old and new, the recession has made for a long, strange trip. 
 Some forces have been positive: Prices for steel and concrete, bread and butter to a railroad, have declined as global demand has cooled. And in other cities that are building major systems, including Salt Lake City and Dallas, money committed years ago in economically flush times emerged as if on cue over the last two years, creating thousands of jobs like rabbits from a hat at precisely the moment an economist would summon them.
 New research about the recession has also bolstered one of transit's central premises -- that highway-driven sprawl is bad for a city's economic health. Recent studies at the University of Utah, for example, concluded that foreclosure rates in the Washington area were much lower in counties served by the Metro rail system, compared with the next ring of counties farther out, and that home prices in Phoenix had also fallen in direct proportion to the distance from downtown.
 ''The underlying lesson is that the further out you go, the more vulnerable you are to losing value in your home,'' said Arthur C. Nelson, presidential professor of city and metropolitan planning at the university and author of the research. ''Locating near transit and near urban centers is the safer investment.'' 
 Many more systems, though, are comrades in misery with Denver.
 In New York, for example, home to the nation's largest transit system, tax increases for a $1.9 billion state bailout of the bus and train system took effect in September, including a payroll tax and a surcharge on taxi rides. In Miami, rail administrators hope a special session of the State Legislature could rescue the system with new revenue.
 Other places are taking Denver's tack, trying to reposition the appeal of transit from getting around to getting a job, arguing that new rail lines will provide economic stimulus now, and transportation and environmental benefits later on.
 In Los Angeles, for example, where voters approved a $13 billion sales tax increase in 2008 to pay for 12 new transit projects, city officials announced a plan last month to sharply accelerate the schedule for job creation.
 But as Denver prepares to sell itself all over again to the public -- the Regional Transportation District's board will make a decision early next year on how to address its budget shortfall -- money is only part of the new equation. 
 Colorado ranks 10th in the nation in purchases of hybrid vehicles per thousand residents, according to R. L. Polk & Company, a research firm. With thousands of more energy-efficient vehicles on the roads in the last few years, higher taxes for transit could be a harder sell, some experts say, if people feel they are already going green by getting 50 to 100 miles on a gallon of gas.
 ''There could be an anti-government feeling, people saying, 'Let's let the market solve our problems with hybrids and electric cars,' '' said James van Hemert, the executive director of the Rocky Mountain Land Use Institute, a research group at the University of Denver's law school. 
 Mr. van Hemert said that in persuading taxpayers to continue their support, FasTracks will need to talk about the high environmental cost of even the greenest cars, because those cars will still need expensive, energy-intensive highways to drive on, whatever fuel they use.
 Neighborhoods around the proposed rail stations could emerge differently because of the recession, too. One nonprofit group based in Denver that works on urban real estate projects has joined with local and national groups to buy property within walking distance of future rail sites -- capitalizing on reduced prices and foreclosures now to ensure that working class people do not get squeezed out when and if such neighborhoods gentrify because of their transportation access.
 The recession has been an odd blessing in making the money go much further, said Aaron Miripol, the president and chief executive of the Urban Land Conservancy, which recently worked with a group of local and national nonprofits, as well as the city and the state, to buy a 62-unit apartment complex on Denver's west side, less than a block from the site of a future station, for $2.9 million. 
 ''It would have been a million more than that at the height of the market,'' Mr. Miripol said.
 A lingering fear among many transit systems administrators, one shared by some economists in looking at the national economic recovery, is that business conditions improve in coming months, but unemployment stays high. 
 That might make building rail more appealing to taxpayers and politicians now because of short-term job creation, but less so down the road, since commuters are mass transit's main users. Almost 60 percent of all transit rides in the nation, according to the American Public Transportation Association, a transit advocacy group, are for commuting.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: OVER COST: Voters in 2004 approved a $4.7 billion, 122-mile rail project
costs are now expected to be $7 billion. Most of the lines are still on the drawing board.
 LOOKING AHEAD: Ray Stranske of Newsed Community Development corporation, center, with Aaron Miripol and Debra Bustos of the Urban Land Conservancy, which is trying to help keep working-class people near transit.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); SALES TAX (90%); HISTORY (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); RECESSION (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TRAINS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); BAILOUTS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); APPROVALS (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (69%); CITIES (69%); HOME PRICES (65%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); FORECLOSURE (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (94%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009



186 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: A Not-So-Guilty Pleasure

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
For months now, consumers have been hunkering down in an economic storm, buying only what they need to survive, like groceries, diapers, medicine -- and shoes. 
 Shoes?
 The American public, it would seem, cannot carry on without new shoes. Boots, booties, sneakers, pumps -- for the last few months they have all been selling well as the broader economy struggles toward recovery.
 Retailing executives and analysts offer varying, occasionally wacky, explanations. The one favored by many of them is that consumers consider shoes more of a necessity than, say, dresses, cuff links or handbags, so people feel less guilt about buying them. 
 ''I would argue you wear out shoes more than you wear out handbags,'' said Marie Driscoll, an analyst with Standard & Poor's Equity Research who is adept at rationalizing her own shoe purchases. Living in New York, she walks everywhere. ''I use the argument, 'If I spend $150 to $300 on shoes, this is my car.' '' 
 Many shoes, of course, can be had for a lot less than that, which makes them a recession-friendly indulgence. Most of the shoes being bought today are moderately priced, according to retailers and market researchers. Executives at Macy's said women's shoes typically cost half as much as a handbag of similar quality. 
 Also, the cost-per-wear of a pair of shoes is far lower than that of a dress or suit, which can only be donned so many times a week before colleagues snicker. And new shoes spruce up old outfits, a cheaper alternative to buying more clothes. 
 Another popular theory is that as the economy has inspired a back-to-basics mentality, with families dining and vacationing at home, people are focusing on free outdoor activities that require comfortable or rugged shoes.
 Scott Savitz, the founder and chief executive of Shoebuy.com, an Internet retailer, said sales of outdoor and athletic shoes by the likes of Timberland, Merrell and Adidas were robust.
 ''You could spend thousands of dollars to go away right now, or you can buy walking shoes,'' said Mr. Savitz, whose company added more than 90 brands in the last quarter when most retailers were cutting inventory.
 Shoe buyers for major retailing chains said sales were also driven by styles for children and babies, especially during the back-to-school months. Children regularly grow out of shoes and parents, while willing to sacrifice when it comes to themselves, are typically loath to scrimp on their children. 
 Among the more curious explanations proffered for the relative strength of shoe sales is that women -- who make up the lion's share of the American shoe market -- get an emotional lift from shoe shopping in a way they do not when trying on jeans and cocktail dresses.
 ''Shoes democratize fashion,'' said Kathryn Finney, who writes the Budget Fashionista blog. ''You probably can't buy a Zac Posen dress if you wear a size 14, but you can buy a pair of Jimmy Choo shoes.'' 
 Or, as Jennifer Black, president of research company Jennifer Black and Associates, put it: ''It's just fun to shop for shoes. Maybe part of the fun is you don't feel fat. And you don't get hot. It's exhausting trying clothes on, especially the skinny jeans.''
 Certainly, shoes are what retailing merchants refer to as an emotional purchase. Eileen Lewis, director of fashion strategy for Zappos.com, said consumers were snapping up shoes in bright colors like yellow and red, ''something that sticks out and makes you happy.''
 Jamie Boucher, a lawyer in Washington, snapped up a pair of Christian Louboutin heels recently for 70 percent off at a local Saks store. ''I think about value much more than perhaps I did before,'' said Ms. Boucher. ''But you've still got to have your shoes.''
 Fashion trends also play a role. Voluminous sweaters and leggings are in vogue, a style well suited to showcasing shoes, said John D. Morris, a retailing analyst with BMO Capital Markets. Retailers said boots were selling especially well. A spokeswoman for J. C. Penney explained that consumers were not sticking with one type of boot for winter but rather creating entire ''boot wardrobes,'' buying over-the-knee boots, open-toe boots and ankle boots. 
 Ms. Finney added that with conspicuous consumption being out of fashion nowadays, shoes enable people to update their wardrobes without being ostentatious. ''It's not the same as wearing a Louis Vuitton monogrammed bag,'' she said. ''It's this trend of being a little bit more coy.''
 Shoe sales have been strong for three months now. They increased 7.9 percent in October compared with the period a year ago, according to SpendingPulse, an information service by MasterCard Advisors that estimates sales for all forms of payment, including cash, checks and credit cards. In September, sales climbed 7.8 percent year-over-year. In August, shoe sales increased 0.5 percent. 
 Sales of shoes were $1.5 billion in October, the highest they have been in any October since at least 2006. And major retailers like J. C. Penney, Dillard's and Ross Stores said in sales reports last month that shoes were among their best-performing categories.
 ''Shoe sales are trending up, without question,'' said Rory Tahari, vice chairman of the clothing brand Elie Tahari. ''It's one of our better-selling categories.''
 A few weeks ago Larry Smith bought leather Allen Edmonds shoes to replace an old pair. ''I needed shoes,'' said Mr. Smith, who lives in Indianapolis and runs an educational Web site for children. ''We're still going to buy the stuff that we want, but we're not extravagant.''
 The shoe rally of the last three months is not likely to bring about year-over-year sales growth for the shoe sector, given that the beginning of the year was so bleak for merchandise sales of all kinds. Packaged Facts, a research company, estimates that, like other discretionary categories, footwear sales will decline by double digits for all of 2009.
 Still, a few months of healthy sales may be a sign that some consumers are experiencing what Marshal Cohen, chief industry analyst for market research company NPD Group, calls ''frugal fatigue.''
 ''They are getting tired of having to be so frugal and not spend on anything,'' he said recently while observing the packed shoe department of a Bloomingdale's in Short Hills, N.J., during a sale. ''Repairing those boots yet again? Nah. Time to step out and buy a new pair.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mary Paige Phillips at Macy's on 34th Street. Despite the recession, shoe sales rose in September and October.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIE GLASSBERG/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B1)
The Woburn, Mass., warehouse, left, of shoebuy.com, which had robust sales of outdoor and athletic shoes. Boots at Macy's on 34th Street, top.(PHOTOGRAPHS ABOVE, JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ABOVE RIGHT, JULIE GLASSBERG/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOTWEAR (90%); RETAILERS (89%); CHILDREN (86%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FAMILY (78%); WOMEN (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); EQUITY RESEARCH (76%); RETAIL SALES (76%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (75%); WALKING & JOGGING (73%); INTERNET RETAILING (71%); MARKET SHARE (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MAMMALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009



187 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 2590 words

HEADLINE: SPARE TIMES

BYLINE: By ANNE MANCUSO

 BODY:
AROUND TOWN
 Museums and Sites
 AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY Thursday through Nov. 15, the Margaret Mead Film & Video Festival; tickets, $12 per program ($10 for members, students and 60+), which does not include museum admission. Through May 31, 2010, ''The Butterfly Conservatory: Tropical Butterflies Alive in Winter,'' featuring hundreds of live specimens. Through Jan. 3, ''Frogs: A Chorus of Colors,'' with more than 200 live frogs representing 25 species. 
In the Imax theater, playing alternately every hour on the half-hour from 10:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., ''Wild Ocean,'' about the underwater survival of migrating species, and ''Beavers,'' about the obstacles to building a dam. Timed tickets to ''Frogs: A Chorus of Colors'' and ''The Butterfly Conservatory,'' as well as tickets to Imax films, include museum admission: $24; $18 for students and 60+; $14 for ages 2 to 12; $12 for members and $7.50 for their children. Suggested general admission: $16; $12 for students and 60+; $9 for 2 to 12. Supersaver tickets, including museum and Rose Center admission, the Hayden Planetarium space show (''Journey to the Stars'') and all special exhibitions: $32; $24.50 for students and 60+; $20 for 2 to 12 (members, $16 and $11.50.) Hours: daily, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m. Central Park West and 79th Street , (212) 769-5100, amnh.org.20091105
 BARTOW-PELL MANSION MUSEUM ''First Fridays!,'' from 5:30 to 8:30 p.m., features a new exhibition of contemporary Dutch design, as well as music by the Pelham Jazz Ensemble and refreshments; donations accepted. Registration requested: (718) 885-1461. A free trolley will transport visitors among the Pelham Bay Park stop on the No. 6 train, the museum and City Island, hourly, beginning at 5:25 p.m. Museum hours: Wednesdays, Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 4 p.m.; grounds open daily, 8:30 a.m. to dusk. The museum will be open daily beginning on Thursday for the ''5 Dutch Days 5 Boroughs: 400 Years of Dutch Art & Culture'' celebration (see below). 895 Shore Road North, Pelham Bay Park, the Bronx , (718) 885-1461, bartowpellmansionmuseum.org; $5; $3 for students and 65+; free for 5 and younger.20091105
 NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS Thursday at 6 p.m., ''Some Enchanted Evenings: The Theater on Film and Tape Archive at 40,'' a lecture with video highlights by Patrick Hoffman, director of the archive. Mondays and Thursdays, noon to 8 p.m.; Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; closed on Veterans Day. 111 Amsterdam Avenue, at 65th Street, Lincoln Center , (212) 642-0142 nypl.org; free.20091105
 NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY Through March 25, ''F. D. R.'s Brain Trust and the Beginning of the New Deal,'' an exhibition that focuses on five people who played key roles during Roosevelt's administration: Raymond Moley, Rexford Tugwell and Adolphe Berle, who were part of the ''brain trust,'' and Frances Perkins and Harry Hopkins, who were cabinet members. Tuesday at 6:30 p.m., ''America's Future, America's Constitution,'' a discussion with Benno Schmidt, chairman of the board of trustees of the City University of New York; Philip C. Bobbitt, a professor at Columbia Law School; and Robert C. Post, a dean and professor at Yale Law School; $20; $10 for members. Wednesday at 6:30 p.m., ''Yankee Stadium Forever: College Football,'' a look back at some noted games that took place at the stadium with the TV host Regis Philbin; Dave Anderson, a Pulitzer-Prize-winning sports columnist for The New York Times; Paul Hornung, the football player; and others; $24; $12 for members. Tickets: (212) 868-4444 or smarttix.com. Two more exhibitions will run through March 25: ''Lincoln and New York,'' focusing on Lincoln's life from 1860 to 1865, and ''John Brown: The Abolitionist and His Legacy,'' which commemorates the 150th anniversary of Brown's raid on a federal arsenal at Harpers Ferry, Va. (Oct. 16, 1859). Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. (until 8 p.m. on Fridays); Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street , (212) 873-3400, nyhistory.org; $12; $9 for educators and 65+; $7 for students; pay what you wish from 6 to 8 p.m. on Fridays; free at all times for members and under 12.20091105
 PALEY CENTER FOR MEDIA Screenings this weekend in celebration of Chinese culture: ''From Mao to Mozart: Isaac Stern in China,'' a documentary about the violinist's 1979 trip to China (Saturday at noon); ''Mozart in China,'' a 2008 German film (with English subtitles) about a young boy's trip to China (Sunday at 1 p.m.); and television films about trips to China by the Boston Symphony Orchestra, by the playwright Arthur Miller to direct a Chinese production of ''Death of a Salesman,'' and by the dancer Jacques d'Amboise and members of the National Dance Institute (Sunday at 3 p.m.). Museum hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. (until 8 p.m. on Thursdays.) 25 West 52nd Street , (212) 621-6800, paleycenter.org; $10; $8 for students and 62+; $5 for children under 14.20091105
 Events
 ANNUAL EDITIONS/ARTISTS' BOOKS FAIR, with displays of contemporary prints and artists' books, as well as performances, discussions and other events. Friday and Saturday, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m., and Sunday, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.; X Initiative, 548 West 22nd Street, Chelsea , eabfair.com; free.20091105
 ARTCRAWL HARLEM Saturday, 12:30 to 4 p.m., a guided trolley tour to galleries in East Harlem, sponsored by the Harlem Arts Alliance. Meeting place and other information: artcrawlharlem.com. $40; $25 for ages 7 to 16.20091105
 CEMETERY TALKS AND WALKS Sunday at 1 p.m., a walking tour of the grave sites of the known and unknown in Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn, led by Ruth Edebohls, an urban historian, meeting at the Gothic Arch inside the main entrance at 25th Street and Fifth Avenue, Greenwood Heights, (718) 768-7300, green-wood.com; $10. Sunday at 2 p.m., a look at the Westchester affiliations of some of those buried in Woodlawn Cemetery, in the Norwood section of the Bronx, including the financier Jay Gould and the publisher George Putnam, with a walk and a talk by Gray Williams, author of ''Picture Our Past: National Register Sites in Westchester County,'' meeting at the Jerome Avenue gate near Bainbridge Avenue; $10; $5 for students, free for under 6. Sponsored by the Friends of Woodlawn Cemetery and the Westchester County Historical Society, (718) 920-1470; thewoodlawncemetery.org.20091105
 5 DUTCH DAYS 5 BOROUGHS: 400 YEARS OF DUTCH ART & CULTURE Thursday through Nov. 16, a celebration of Dutch influence on the city's cultural life, with tours, lectures, exhibitions, open houses and other events. Schedule: 5dutchdaysnyc.org.20091105
 FLATBUSH ARTISTS STUDIO TOUR Saturday and Sunday, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m., a self-guided walk with stops at the studios of 23 artists in this Brooklyn neighborhood. Information: flatbushartists.org.20091105
 GAY AND LESBIAN INDEPENDENT DEMOCRATS STREET FAIR Saturday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., on West Fourth Street, between Broadway and Washington Square East, East Village.20091105
 HELL'S KITCHEN ARTISTS IN STUDIO TOUR Saturday and Sunday, noon to 6 p.m., self-guided visits to studios and performance spaces in the neighborhood, sponsored by Artists in the Kitchen. An opening-night party will be held on Friday at 6 at Bar Nine, 807 Ninth Avenue, near 53rd Street; and a closing-night party will be on Sunday at 6 at the Caribbean Cultural Center, 408 West 58th Street. Information: artistsinthekitchen.org.20091105
 JOY OF CHRISTMAS BAZAAR Friday and Saturday, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., with jewelry, clothing, crafts and food; Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church, 7 West 55th Street, Manhattan , (212) 247-0490; free.20091105
 LATIN AMERICAN CULTURAL WEEK IN NEW YORK CITY, running Monday through Nov. 22, features events at various locations in the five boroughs. It opens on Monday at noon with a free piano festival at the World Financial Center Winter Garden, West Street, south of Vesey Street, Lower Manhattan. Presented by Pan American Musical Art Research. Schedule and other information: pamar.org/lacwnyc.20091105
 MADISON AVENUE HOLIDAY EXPO Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., between 42nd and 57th Streets.20091105
 NEW YORK CITY GEM AND MINERAL SHOW Saturday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., and Sunday, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Sponsored by the New York Mineralogical Club. Holiday Inn, Grand Ballroom, 440 West 57th Street, Manhattan , (914) 739-1134; $6; free for those under 12 with an adult.20091105
 NEW YORKER'S PASSPORT TO THE ARTS Saturday, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m., a self-guided tour of art galleries in SoHo and Chelsea, followed by a party and a silent auction. Maps will be available at the Nespresso Boutique Bar in SoHo, 92 Prince Street, at Mercer Street. Participating galleries: passporttotheartsnyc.com. (866) 468-7619; $45; proceeds benefit programs of Friends of the High Line: ticketweb.com.20091105
 NIGHTINGALE-BAMFORD SCHOOL FAIR Saturday, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., on 92nd Street, between Fifth and Madison Avenues, and inside the school at 20 East 92nd Street.20091105
 POETRY AND JAZZ PRESENTATION Saturday, with readings by Latino poets beginning at 1 p.m. (including an open mike), followed by a performance by the NuyoRican School Poetry Jazz Ensemble, a sponsor of the event. Also sponsored by the Bronx Council on the Arts and the Acentos Bronx Poetry Showcase; Bronx Library Center, 310 East Kingsbridge Road, at Briggs Avenue, Fordham , (718) 579-4244; free.20091105
 QUEENS THEATER IN THE PARK Saturday at 3 and 8 p.m., staged readings of the musical ''Rosa Parks,'' with music by Scott Ethier and a book and lyrics by Jeff Hughes. Flushing Meadows-Corona Park ; free, but reservations are necessary: (718) 760-0064, queenstheatre.org.20091105
 TARGET FIRST SATURDAY From 5 to 11 p.m., a free celebration in conjunction with the exhibition ''Who Shot Rock & Roll: A Photographic History, 1955 to the Present'' (on view through Jan. 31) with performances of indie rock, discussions and a screening of the 1984 film ''Purple Rain,'' starring Prince. Some activities have limited space and require timed tickets that can be picked up at the visitors' center, first come first served, from 30 minutes to an hour before the event. Brooklyn Museum, 200 Eastern Parkway, Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org.20091105
 THE POND AT BRYANT PARK Opens for ice-skating on Friday, with a ceremony featuring demonstrations at 1 p.m. Avenue of the Americas at 40th Street , thepondatbryantpark.com.20091105
 UNIVERSITY PLACE FALL FESTIVAL Saturday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., between Waverly Place and 14th Street, East Village.20091105
 VETERANS DAY PARADE AND STREET FAIR, on Wednesday, begins with an opening ceremony at 10 a.m. at the Eternal Light Monument in Madison Square Park, Fifth Avenue at 24th Street; a parade follows at 11:30 a.m. on Fifth Avenue, from 26th to 56th Streets. A street fair is planned from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. on 56th Street, between Madison Avenue and Avenue of the Americas. Sponsored by the United War Veterans Council of New York County.20091105
 THE YEAR IN PICTURES Friday through Sunday, 11:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., a display of photographs chosen as the best of 2008 by the New York Press Photographers Association. Ukrainian Museum, 222 East Sixth Street, East Village , (212) 228-0110, nyppa.org; $8; $6 for students and 65+; free for children 12 and younger.20091105
 Spoken Word
 ARRESTED DEVELOPMENT: DO MEGAPROJECTS HAVE A FUTURE? Saturday, 9:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., a symposium covering development in cities, towns and the suburbs, with architects, scholars and public officials, including Scott Stringer, the Manhattan borough president, and Tom Suozzi, the Nassau County executive. Sponsored by the Institute for Urban Design and Cooper Union; Cooper Union, the Great Hall, Seventh Street at Third Avenue, East Village , (212) 366-0780, ifud.org; free.20091105
 CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK GRADUATE CENTER Monday at noon, ''Rockpile on the Road: Collaboration and the Troubadour Tradition in the 21st Century,'' a discussion about how music and poetry affect social change, with David Henderson, a poet and one of the founders of the Umbra Poets Workshop; David Meltzer, a poet and musician; and Michael Rothenberg, a poet and songwriter; free; (212) 817-2005. Wednesday at 7 p.m., a discussion about music by contemporary New York composers, with the pianist Ursula Oppens and the composers Elliott Carter, Tania Leon, Tobias Picker and Joan Tower. Their pieces will be performed by Ms. Oppens; Charles Neidich, a clarinetist, will also take part. Tickets -- $25; $10 for students -- can be purchased at gc.cuny.edu/concertsandconversations; (212) 817-8215. 365 Fifth Avenue, at 34th Street .20091105
 FIRST NEW YORK FESTIVAL OF CONTEMPORARY IRISH POETRY Saturday, with reading programs at 3 and 7:30 p.m., and a reception with the poets at 5 p.m. Irish Arts Center, Donaghy Theater, 553 West 51st Street, Clinton , (212) 757-3318, irishartscenter.org. Each reading program: $10; $8 for members of the center; there is also an $18 pass for all events ($15 for members); (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. The reception is open to any ticketholder.20091105
 92ND STREET Y Wednesday at 6:30 p.m., Bill Gates will speak about his business and philanthropic foundation with Matthew Bishop, an editor of The Economist and author of ''Philanthrocapitalism: How Giving Can Save the World.'' 1395 Lexington Avenue , (212) 415-5500, 92y.org; $50 and $75; rush tickets (if available), one hour before the talk, are $25 and $37.50 for those 62+; $10 for students.20091105
 NOGUCHI MUSEUM SECOND SUNDAY At 3 p.m. Isaac Shapiro, past president of the museum, will read from his memoir, ''Edokko: Growing Up a Foreigner in Wartime Japan.'' 9-01 33rd Road, at Vernon Boulevard, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 204-7088, noguchi.org; $10; $5 for students and 60+; free for New York City public school students with valid ID and children under 12.20091105
 Walking Tours
 GANGSTER, WRITER, RABBI Sunday at 11 a.m., a Lower East Side tour that looks at the divergent lives of three former residents -- the gangster Big Jack Zelig, the writer Sholom Aleichem and the rabbi Jacob Joseph -- meeting at the sponsor of the walk, the Museum at Eldridge Street, Eldridge Street Synagogue, 12 Eldridge Street, between Canal and Division Streets. (212) 219-0888, eldridgestreet.org; $15; $12 for students.20091105
 GREENWICH VILLAGE LITERARY PUB CRAWL Saturdays at 2 p.m., with actors leading a tour of bars with a rich literary history, meeting at the White Horse Tavern, 567 Hudson Street, at 11th Street, West Village. Sponsored by Bakerloo Theater Project. (212) 613-5796, bakerloo.org; $20; $15 for students and 60+, not including drinks or food.20091105
 MARBLE HILL Sunday at noon, a walk in this Manhattan neighborhood north of the Harlem River, named for the marble deposits found there and used in buildings, meeting in front of the JPMorgan Chase bank at Broadway and 225th Street. Led by the historian James Renner. (917) 533-3252; $15; $10 for 65+ and students.20091105
 NOSHWALKSANNE MANCUSO Sunday at 1 p.m., the Asian foods of Elmhurst, Queens, meeting in front of Pacific Market, 75-01 Broadway. (212) 222-2243, noshwalks.com; $45; $40 for subscribers; $16 for children. ANNE MANCUSO 20091105
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.; Information about events to be considered for inclusion in Spare Times can be sent to weekend@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); FILM (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (78%); HISTORY (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (76%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (73%); LIBRARIES (67%); JAZZ & BLUES (67%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009



188 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Break for Companies in Bailout's Fine Print

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
One of the federal government's most opaque methods for bailing out the banking system allowed a handful of giant institutions to save up to $25 billion on their borrowing costs, a Congressional panel estimated on Friday. 
 Seven companies received about 82 percent of those benefits, the panel estimated. General Electric Capital was able to reduce its borrowing costs by about $1.9 billion, while Goldman Sachs saved an estimated $606 million. The other big beneficiaries were Citigroup, Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, Morgan Stanley and Wells Fargo & Company.
 The savings came in the form of federal guarantees on more than $300 billion of bonds issued by banks and other financial institutions, and they were merely one component of a $4.3 trillion safety net of guarantees orchestrated last year by the Treasury Department, Federal Reserve and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
 In one of the first systematic efforts to analyze the maze of guarantees and hidden subsidies, the Congressional panel that oversees the Treasury's $700 billion rescue program said the guarantees had provided a cheap but risky tactic for fighting the financial crisis last year.
 The good news for taxpayers, the panel said, is that the government has actually turned a profit thus far on the guarantees. The government has collected $9 billion in fees for guaranteeing bonds issued by the big financial institutions and a total of $17 billion in fees for all its emergency guarantees. Thus far, it has lost only about $2 million.
 At the height of the financial crisis late last year, the government provided guarantees to financial institutions, from money-market funds to expanded deposit-insurance for banks and $300 billion in troubled assets held by Citigroup. By providing guarantees instead of direct loans, the Treasury could avoid spending money upfront. 
 But Elizabeth Warren, director of the oversight panel, warned that the guarantees also exposed taxpayers to potentially huge costs and had created new risks by encouraging financial institutions to count on future bailouts and take bigger risks.
 ''The guarantees, when they work, provide big market stability at very low cost,'' Ms. Warren said. ''But they come with a very high risk to the taxpayer and a powerful distortion of market pricing and moral hazard.''
 The panel's most striking finding was about the size of the effective subsidy that G.E. Capital and Wall Street giants like Goldman reaped in the form of below-market borrowing costs.
 The panel estimated that the federal guarantees lowered those firms' borrowing costs by about 39 percent. Using two different approaches to measure the value of the subsidy, the panel said the savings ranged from $12.8 billion to $25 billion.
 The oversight panel said it found ''no significant flaws'' in how Treasury officials and banking regulators designed the guarantees. But Ms. Warren warned that they were a ''dangerous tool,'' adding that ''next time we may not be so lucky.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BONDS (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (64%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); CITIGROUP INC (91%); WELLS FARGO & CO (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (69%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); WFC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); GS (NYSE) (90%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (69%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (69%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009



189 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 AFTER SIEGE AT AFGHAN HOUSE, U.N. TO MOVE 600 WORKERS
 The United Nations plans to temporarily relocate hundreds of foreign staff members in Afghanistan, some out of the country, in the wake of a lethal attack on its workers at a guesthouse last week. PAGE A6 
 2 HELD IN RUSSIAN KILLINGS 
 Prosecutors announced the arrest of two young ultranationalists -- Nikita Tikhonov and Yevgenia Khasis -- in the killing of a lawyer, Stanislav Markelov, and a reporter, Anastasia Baburova. PAGE A6 
 PARAGUAY FORCES SHAKE-UP
 Fernando Lugo, the president of Paraguay, swore in new commanders of the army, navy and air force without explanation, just two days after denying rumors of a possible coup attempt. PAGE A10 
 INDONESIAN OFFICIALS RESIGN
 Two senior law enforcement officials suspected of trying to undermine Indonesia's respected anticorruption agency were forced to resign. PAGE A10 
 HONDURAN IMPASSE PERSISTS
 A week after an accord seemed to have ended the standoff that has paralyzed Honduras since a coup in June, the stalemate is still unresolved, and President Manuel Zelaya is still a virtual prisoner in the Brazilian Embassy. PAGE A13 
 India Cuts Access to Dalai Lama A10 
 Insults Cross English Channel A10 
 Iraqi Election Law Fails Again A12 
 Karadzic Trial Is Delayed A14 
 National
 PANEL APPROVES CLIMATE BILL WHILE REPUBLICANS BOYCOTT
 The Environment and Public Works Committee approved a climate bill without any participation by Republicans, who boycotted the committee, saying they had not had enough time to study the bill. PAGE A15 
 MOVES ON JOBLESS AND HOMES
 In separate actions, the government moved to assist long-unemployed workers and struggling businesses, as well as home buyers and homeowners facing foreclosure. PAGE A15 
 DENVER RAIL PLANS HIT WALL
 Denver approved an ambitious mass-transit project in 2004. But projected costs have ballooned, and construction is not expected to be in full swing until 2011. PAGE A15 
 Polygamist Leader Convicted A19
 New York
 NONVIOLENT FUGITIVES SURRENDER IN NEWARK
 Nearly 1,000 people surrendered during the first two days of a four-day program in Newark that promises favorable consideration for those with open warrants for nonviolent crimes. PAGE A24 
 NASSAU VOTE TOO CLOSE TO CALL
 The race for Nassau County executive will not be decided until Wednesday. Thomas R. Suozzi, the Democratic incumbent, currently holds a 237-vote lead over Edward P. Mangano. PAGE A27 
 A Remade, Feistier City Council A26
 Business
 IN RECESSION, SHOES ARE A NOT-SO-GUILTY PLEASURE
 For months now, consumers have been hunkering down in an economic storm, buying only what they need to survive, like groceries, diapers, medicine -- and shoes. Shoes? Yes, shoes. PAGE B1 
 THE FATE OF WINFREY SHOW
 Oprah Winfrey is said to be nearing a decision about whether she will move her daily talk show from broadcast television to the cable channel she now co-owns with Discovery Networks. PAGE B2 
 SCRIPPS BUYS TRAVEL CHANNEL
 Scripps Networks snapped up a majority stake in the Travel Channel in a nearly billion dollar deal with Cox Communications, which will keep a 35 percent stake. PAGE B2 
 WIND FARM JEOPARDIZED
 Senator Charles E. Schumer asked the Obama administration to withhold stimulus money from a deal to install Chinese-made wind turbines in Texas that would create more jobs in China than in Texas. PAGE B2 
 Sports
 HORSE DEATHS DECLINE WITH END TO DIRT TRACKS
 The number of thoroughbreds in California who suffered fatal injuries has fallen by 40 percent since the state switched from dirt to synthetic surfaces, according to a study compiled by state regulators. PAGE B10 
 A Nerd Behind Center in Boise B13 
 Weekend
 HIGH-TECH GHOSTS OF HOLIDAY PRESENT
 The surprise of ''Disney's A Christmas Carol'' is that, in the midst of obeying the rules of the modern-day, digitally enhanced movie spectacle, it sticks closely to some of the sturdy virtues of Charles Dickens' source material, A. O. Scott writes. PAGE C1 
 A Star as Understudy C1 
 Op-ed
 PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A31 
 DAVID BROOKS PAGE A31

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUPS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); APPROVALS (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); REAL ESTATE (78%); WORKPLACE VIOLENCE (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); ARMIES (76%); ARREST WARRANTS (76%); ARRESTS (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); ARMED FORCES (75%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); ELECTION LAW (74%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (73%); AIR FORCES (73%); LAWYERS (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%); CORRUPTION (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); NAVIES (70%); COUNTIES (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (68%); INFRASTRUCTURE (67%); BOYCOTTS (65%); FORECLOSURE (64%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (61%); CABLE TELEVISION (60%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (60%); CITIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%)

PERSON: MANUEL ZELAYA (54%); DALAI LAMA (50%); OPRAH WINFREY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) INDONESIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (91%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (70%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009



190 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 947 words

PERSON: Art D'Lugoff 

HEADLINE: Art D'Lugoff, Village Gate Impresario, Dies at 85

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
Art D'Lugoff, who was widely regarded as the dean of New York nightclub impresarios and whose storied spot, the Village Gate, was for more than 30 years home to performers as celebrated, and diverse, as Duke Ellington, Allen Ginsbergand John Belushi, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 85 and lived in the Riverdale section of the Bronx.
 The cause has not been determined, said Mr. D'Lugoff's brother, Burt, a medical doctor and frequent silent partner in his joyously noisy endeavors. Mr. D'Lugoff died at the Allen Hospital of New York-Presbyterian Hospital, where he had been taken on Wednesday after experiencing shortness of breath. 
 Opened in 1958, the Village Gate was on the corner of Bleecker and Thompson Streets. The cavernous basement space it occupied -- the building's upper floors were then a flophouse -- had once been a laundry. 
 Mr. D'Lugoff later expanded to the upper floors, and in its heyday the Gate comprised the basement space, used primarily for live music of all kinds; a street-level terrace for jazz; and the Top of the Gate, an upper-story performance space.
 The club closed its doors in 1994, amid rising rents, a changing market for live music and the aftermath of some unsuccessful investments by Mr. D'Lugoff. It briefly reappeared on West 52nd Street in 1996 but sputtered out after less than a year.
 Mr. D'Lugoff was also a producer of Off Broadway shows -- most at the Gate -- and helped conceive the National Jazz Museum in Harlem.
 The Gate may have lacked the cachet of the Village Vanguard, a more intimate West Village club, but it was a bright star in the city's cultural firmament for decades. A young Woody Allen did stand-up comedy there. The playwright-to-be Sam Shepard bused tables there. A waiter named Dustin Hoffman was fired there for being so engrossed in the performances that he neglected his customers, though service was by all accounts never the club's strength. Dozens of albums were recorded there, by musicians like Pete Seeger and Nina Simone and by comics like Dick Gregory. 
 Though most often thought of as a jazz space -- among the eminences heard there over the years were John Coltrane, Miles Davis and Thelonious Monk -- the Gate offered nearly every type of performance imaginable. There were blues artists like B. B. King; soul singers like Aretha Franklin; rockers like Jimi Hendrix; comics like Mort Sahl and Richard Pryor; and Beat poets. There was the harmonica virtuoso Larry Adler; the odd classical recital (the composer Edgard Varese gave the American premiere of his ''Poeme Electronique'' there); and a duck, Hermione, who performed in the musical ''Scrambled Feet,'' which opened there in 1979.
 Over the years the club also earned a reputation as an important Off Broadway theater space, presenting shows like ''MacBird!'' (1967), the Vietnam-era political satire; the revue ''Jacques Brel Is Alive and Well and Living in Paris,'' which had its premiere there in 1968; and ''One Mo' Time,'' the musical about black vaudeville that opened in 1979.
 For many patrons, as for Mr. D'Lugoff himself, the Gate's eclecticism was at the heart of its charm. One of his most celebrated offerings was Salsa Meets Jazz, a regular series in the 1970s that paired great Latin artists like Machito and Tito Puente with jazz titans like Dexter Gordon and Dizzy Gillespie.
 But sometimes the fare grew too varied even for Mr. D'Lugoff, as he told The New York Times in 1988. ''I used to put together a lot of unlikely combinations to appeal to a bigger audience,'' he said. ''Once we had Nina Simone, Dick Gregory and Larry Adler all on the same bill and had so much trouble deciding who would open that I went across the street and hired a guitarist.''
 Arthur Joshua Dlugoff was born in Harlem on Aug. 2, 1924, the son of Raphael Dlugoff, who ran a vacuum-cleaner and sewing-machine repair shop, and the former Rachel Mandelbaum. (Art later added an apostrophe to his surname as a pronunciation aid.)
 Reared in Brooklyn, Mr. D'Lugoff served with the Army Air Forces in China in World War II. He later earned a bachelor's in literature and economics from New York University and attended law school there for one year. 
 For the next few years Mr. D'Lugoff enjoyed a career as eclectic as any of his concert bills, working as an encyclopedia salesman, a waiter in borscht belt hotels, a cab driver in Los Angeles, a tree surgeon's assistant in upstate New York and a union organizer in Massachusetts and Kentucky. Returning to New York, he embarked on a career as a concert promoter, presenting calypso, folk and jazz artists around the city.
 He soon wanted his own space, and the Village Gate was born. (The name stemmed from the fact that early on, patrons entered through a metal gate on Thompson Street to avoid the flophouse traffic on Bleecker.)
 Besides his brother, Burt, of Baltimore, Mr. D'Lugoff is survived by his wife, the former Avital Achai; a son, Raphael; three daughters, Sharon D'Lugoff Blythe, Dahlia D'Lugoff and Rashi D'Lugoff; and five grandchildren.
 One secret of the Gate's success was Mr. D'Lugoff's eye for what the public wished to see. This was perhaps nowhere more evident than in ''Let My People Come,'' which opened there in 1974. Subtitled ''A Sexual Musical,'' it was all singing, all dancing and almost all naked, male and female, from top to toe.
 The State Liquor Authority would have none of this. Where spirit was on offer, it decreed, the flesh should not be. In a protracted battle that engendered much coverage in the news media, it lifted the Gate's liquor license.Mr. D'Lugoff went to court, the license was reinstated and the show ran for two and a half years.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Art D'Lugoff, who ran the Village Gate nightclub, in 1993.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (79%); POP & ROCK (77%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (72%); THEATER (71%); THEATER & DRAMA (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); WRITERS (71%); CLOSINGS (70%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance, Music, Theater

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009



191 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 2260 words

HEADLINE: THE LISTINGS

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
CLASSICAL
 Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music. 
 Opera
 'AIDA' (Friday) For those who prefer opera productions to be grand and traditional, Sonja Frisell's 1988 staging never fails to please. For this revival the Metropolitan Opera has lined up some notable singers. The rich soprano Violeta Urmana sings the title role, with the elegant tenor Richard Margison as Radames, the stylish baritone Carlo Guelfi as Amonasro, and the powerhouse mezzo-soprano Dolora Zajick as Amneris. The Italian conductor Paolo Carignani, who had a strong Met debut last year in ''La Traviata,'' is on the podium. (Through April 3.) At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center , (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $20 to $375. (Anthony Tommasini)20091105 
 'IL BARBIERE DI SIVIGLIA' (Saturday) Bartlett Sher's breezy new production of Rossini's ''Barbiere di Siviglia,'' which was introduced in November, conveys the comic confusions of the story through its fluid staging and a wonderfully abstract set: a matrix of movable doors, staircases and potted orange trees, behind which characters spy on one another. The lustrous, vivacious mezzo-soprano Joyce DiDonato sings Rosina, and her fans will be eager to see her. This July, while singing the role in a production at Covent Garden in London, she fell and broke her leg and continued on anyway, then performed subsequent performances from a wheelchair. The bright, agile tenor Barry Banks sings Count Almaviva. And the Italian baritone Franco Vassallo sings Figaro, the role of his 2005 Met debut. Maurizio Benini, a bel canto specialist, conducts. (Through March 4.) At 8:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center , (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $27 to $375. (Tommasini)20091105
 'LA DAMNATION DE FAUST' (Monday) The most talked-about element of Robert Lepage's production of Berlioz's ''Damnation de Faust,'' introduced last year, was its stunning use of interactive video. Detailed images -- of grassy fields, fiery hells and more -- morph and change in response to the movements and singing of the cast. For its first revival the Met has lined up an enticing group, with the tenor Ramon Vargas as Faust, the mezzo-soprano Olga Borodina as Marguerite, and the bass-baritone Ildar Abdrazakov as Mephistopheles. James Conlon conducts. (Through Nov. 17.) At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center , (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $20 to $375. (Tommasini)20091105
 'ESTHER' (Saturday) George Steel, the general manager and artistic director of New York City Opera, is making a statement of purpose by opening the reborn company's first season in its renovated theater with a production of Hugo Weisgall's 10th and last opera, ''Esther.'' City Opera gave the premiere of this work in 1993, a landmark in its history. The story tells of the Jewish queen of the Persian Empire, and her triumph over the evil minister Haman, who plots to exterminate the Jews. Weisgall's score is thorny, modern and uncompromising. Yet he had a keen feeling for drama and deployed his complex harmonic language in a masterly, vividly dramatic way. The soprano Lauren Flanigan, who sang the title role at the opera's premiere, returns to it for this important occasion. George Manahan conducts. The demand for tickets was so great that City Opera has added a fifth performance to the run. (Through Nov. 19.) At 8 p.m., David H. Koch Theater, Lincoln Center , (212) 870-5570, nycopera.com; $12 to $145. (Tommasini)20091105
 JUILLIARD OPERA (Wednesday) Stephen Wadsworth directs Handel's ''Ariodante,'' with Gary Thor Wedow conducting the Juilliard Orchestra. The cast includes Cecelia Hall in the title role and Tharanga Goonetilleke as Ginevra. At 8 p.m., Peter Jay Sharp Theater, 155 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center , (212) 769-7406, juilliard.edu; $20; $10 for students and 65+. (Vivien Schweitzer)20091105
 'DON GIOVANNI' (Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday) After opening with ''Esther,'' a dissonant and obscure work by Hugo Weisgall, New York City Opera turns to more traditional fare with Mozart's ''Don Giovanni.'' Christopher Alden directs this new production, billed as an exploration of ''the intersection of dark eroticism and strict Spanish-Catholic tradition in the early 20th century.'' The cast includes Daniel Okulitch in the title role, Jason Hardy as Leporello, Stefania Dovhan as Donna Anna and Brian Kontes as the Commendatore. Gary Thor Wedow conducts. (Through Nov. 22.) Sunday at 1:30 p.m.; Tuesday at 7:30 p.m.; Thursday at 8 p.m.; David H. Koch Theater, Lincoln Center , (212) 870-5570, nycopera.com; $12 to $145. (Schweitzer)20091105
 'TURANDOT' (Saturday and Tuesday) The soprano Maria Guleghina missed the opening night of the Metropolitan Opera's revival of Puccini's ''Turandot'' because of a lingering cold. She is scheduled to sing the matinee on Saturday. Her replacement was the American soprano Lise Lindstrom, who, as scheduled, takes over the role on Tuesday. Turandot has been a calling-card role for Ms. Lindstrom, who was impressive on opening night, bringing her bright, focused and powerful voice to this demanding music. Marcello Giordani gave a vocally uneven performance as Calaf, which has been typical of this gifted but exasperating tenor in recent years. The alluring soprano Marina Poplavskaya was an exceptional Liu. The real news may be the compelling work of the fast-rising young Latvian conductor Andris Nelsons in his Met debut season. Franco Zeffirelli fans who may be mourning the retirement of the director's ''Tosca'' production at least have his grand, shimmering and gaudy ''Turandot'' back. (Through Jan. 28.) Saturday at 1 p.m.; Tuesday at 8 p.m.; Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center , (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $80 to $295. (Tommasini)20091105
 Classical Music
 ATLANTA SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA (Saturday) Robert Spano conducts this fine orchestra in the New York premiere of ''Awakening From a Disappearing Garden,'' a cello concerto by the young composer Angel Lam, featuring Yo-Yo Ma as soloist. The program, part of Carnegie Hall 's Ancient Paths, Modern Voices: A Festival Celebrating Chinese Culture, also includes Stravinsky's opera ''The Nightingale,'' based on a fairy tale by Hans Christian Andersen. The soloists include the sopranos Celena Shafer and Jessica Rivera and the bass Jason Grant. At 8 p.m., 20091105
 BERLIN PHILHARMONIC (Wednesday and Thursday) Schoenberg, born in 1874, grew up in Vienna while Brahms, who died in 1897, was a towering musical figure in that city. Schoenberg revered the music of Brahms, especially the late works. For his three programs at Carnegie Hall on successive nights, Simon Rattle will conduct the Berlin Philharmonic in the four Brahms symphonies, juxtaposed with works by Schoenberg. He blurs the comparison a bit for the first concert, which begins with Schoenberg's glittering, lavish orchestration of Brahms's Piano Quartet in G minor, which ends with a fervent Gypsy rondo. This fascinating piece will be paired with Brahms's First Symphony. Thursday night's program offers Schoenberg's First Chamber Symphony and the dramatic vocal work ''Erwartung'' with the Brahms Second. (The final program next Friday offers Brahms's Third and Fourth Symphonies.) At 8 p.m., 20091105
 BORROMEO STRING QUARTET (Friday, Sunday and Tuesday) The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center has long been fond of assembling a few programs of great if commonplace repertory, slapping on a title and calling it a mini-festival. Its latest, Schubert Ascending, is, well, you can guess. On Friday the Borromeo String Quartet and the pianists Inon Barnatan and Orion Weiss play a program that includes the Piano Sonata in C minor (D. 958), the F minor Fantasy for Piano Four Hands (D. 940) and the exquisite ''Two Cellos'' Quintet in C (D. 956). On Sunday Mr. Barnatan is joined by the baritone Randall Scarlata and the violinist Liza Ferschtman in a program split between Schubert's songs and the Piano Sonata in B flat (D. 960). And on Tuesday Mr. Scarlata returns to sing the cycle ''Schwanengesang,'' with the pianist Jonathan Biss, who also contributes the Sonata in A (D. 959). Friday at 7:30 p.m.; Sunday at 5 p.m.; Tuesday at 7:30 p.m.; Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center , (212) 721-6500, chambermusicsociety.org; $25 to $50 on Friday; $32 to $58 on Sunday; $25 to $52 on Tuesday. (Allan Kozinn)20091105
 BRUCKNER ORCHESTRA LINZ (Monday) On past visits, Dennis Russell Davies has drawn an impressive sound from his Austrian orchestra in what have become two of its specialties (reflecting Mr. Davies's own): the music of its namesake and that of Philip Glass. The program includes the Glass Violin Concerto and the Bruckner Fourth Symphony. At 8 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center , (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; $25 to $69. (Kozinn)20091105
 EARLY MUSIC NEW YORK (Saturday and Sunday) Frederick Renz and his ensemble of singers and period-instrument players offer a look at the Spanish repertory as it took root in colonial Mexico. Included are sacred and secular works, songs and guitar works, most with clear Spanish roots as well as distinctive New World accents. Saturday at 8 p.m., Sunday at 2 p.m., Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, 1047 Amsterdam Avenue, at 112th Street, Morningside Heights , (212) 280-0330, earlymusicny.org; $40. (Kozinn)20091105
 GRAND VALLEY UNIVERSITY NEW MUSIC ENSEMBLE (Sunday) Two years ago this student ensemble from Allendale, Mich., had a surprise hit with its debut recording, a vital performance of Steve Reich's ''Music for 18 Musicians.'' It has produced an inventive follow-up, ''In C Remixed'': a two-disc set that includes Terry Riley's seminal ''In C,'' as well as 18 varied meditations on the work by an impressive slate of composers and remix artists. The group is celebrating the project's release (on the Innova label) with a concert devoted to performances of some of the works enshrined on the double CD. At 7:30 p.m., Le Poisson Rouge, 158 Bleecker Street, near Thompson Street, Greenwich Village , (212) 505-3474, lepoissonrouge.com; $15. (Kozinn)20091105
 KELLER QUARTET (Sunday) This fine Hungarian string ensemble performs a hefty program that begins and ends with Beethoven: the ''Grosse Fugue'' (Op. 133) to start, and the String Quartet in F (Op. 135) to conclude. Between those works, the group plays Ligeti's Quartet No. 1, ''Metamorphoses Nocturnes,'' and Bartok's Quartet No. 3. At 3 p.m., 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue , (212) 415-5500, 92y.org; $38 to $48; $25 for under 35. (Kozinn)20091105
 MUSICIANS FROM MARLBORO (Saturday) The Peoples' Symphony Concerts series offers first-rate soloists and ensembles at recession-proof prices at halls around the city. On Saturday Musicians from Marlboro, the touring ensemble of the prestigious Marlboro Music Festival in Vermont, plays Mozart's Flute Quartet in C, Kaija Saariaho's ''Mirrors,'' Takemitsu's ''Bird Came Down the Walk,'' an excerpt from Messiaen's ethereal ''Quartet for the End of Time'' and Brahms's Piano Quartet in C minor. At 8 p.m., Washington Irving High School, Irving Place at 16th Street, Manhattan , (212) 586-4680, pscny.org; $10 and $12. (Schweitzer)20091105
 NEW JUILLIARD ENSEMBLE (Monday) Joel Sachs conducts this adventurous group in a program of premieres by composers living in China, like Guo Wenjing, part of Carnegie Hall's Ancient Paths, Modern Voices: A Festival Celebrating Chinese Culture. At 8 p.m., Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center , (212) 769-7406, juilliard.edu; free, but tickets required. (Schweitzer)20091105
 NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC (Friday, Saturday, Tuesday and Thursday) The Viennese composer Alexander Zemlinsky, a refugee from the Nazis, died in obscurity in 1942 in Westchester. But his luxuriant music, rejected by modernists like Schoenberg for being too conservative, is certainly getting its due these days. On Friday, Saturday and Tuesday, Neeme Jarvi conducts Zemlinsky's opulent ''Lyric'' Symphony, inspired by Mahler's ''Das Lied von der Erde,'' with the baritone Thomas Hampson and the soprano Hillevi Martinpelto as soloists. The program also includes Beethoven's Overture to ''The Creatures of Prometheus'' and Mozart's ''Prague'' Symphony. On Thursday the dynamic young conductor Xian Zhang leads the pianist Garrick Ohlsson in Martinu's Piano Concerto No. 4, ''Incantation''; Sibelius's Symphony No. 1; and Haydn's Symphony No. 95. Friday and Saturday at 8 p.m.; Tuesday and Thursday at 7:30 p.m.; Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center , (212) 721-6500, nyphil.org; $21 to $112. (Schweitzer)20091105
 SHANGHAI SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA (Tuesday) The pianist Lang Lang performs Rachmaninoff's Piano Concerto No. 2 with this ensemble, founded in 1879 and conducted by Long Yu. The program, part of Carnegie Hall 's Ancient Paths, Modern Voices: A Festival Celebrating Chinese Culture also includes Chen Qigang's ''Iris Unveiled,'' which features traditional Chinese instruments like the pipa alongside the modern orchestra, and singers who perform in both Western and Chinese styles. At 8 p.m., 20091105
 GALINA USTVOLSKAYA (Saturday) In this installment of the Miller Theater's illuminating Composer Portraits series, the Fifth House Ensemble plays six works by the Russian composer Galina Ustvolskaya. Included are her Trio (1949), the Piano Sonatas Nos. 4 (1957) and 6 (1988), the Octet (1950), ''Composition 2'' (1973) and ''Composition 3'' (1975). At 8 p.m., Miller Theater, Broadway at 116th Street, Morningside Heights , (212) 854-7799, millertheater.com; $7 to $25. (Kozinn)20091105

CORRECTION-DATE: November 7, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A classical music entry in the Listings pages on Friday about the Schubert Ascending mini-festival presented by the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center misspelled, at one point, the surname of a pianist who will perform. As noted elsewhere in the entry, he is Inon Barnatan, not Barnaton.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 'La Damnation de Faust' at the Metropolitan Opera: Berlioz's ''legende dramatique'' has returned to the Met with a cast that includes the bass-baritone Ildar Abdrazakov, above, as Mephistopheles.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (94%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (79%); MUSIC REVIEWS (79%); CELEBRITIES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); THEATER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009



192 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Kept On Rising in October

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
Of all the retailers hurt by the recession, no group has been pummeled as badly as luxury chains. For months, high-end stores have posted double-digit declines, even as other types of retailers have begun clawing their way toward sales gains. 
 But new numbers released Thursday show that some of the nation's upscale chains came back from the dead in the weeks before Halloween. 
 ''The improvement in the stock market has had a significant impact on the affluent shopper's willingness to spend,'' Michael P. Niemira, chief economist and director of research for the International Council of Shopping Centers, said in a statement on Thursday. He added that ''the luxury market has shown its first positive reading since May 2008.''
 In October, sales at stores open at least a year, a measure of retail health known as same-store sales, increased 6.5 percent at Nordstrom, the high-end department store chain. That was one of the industry's top results for the month. 
 In a research note this week Bill Dreher, a senior research analyst with Deutsche Bank Securities, upgraded the stock, writing that Nordstrom's strategy of introducing some lower prices had resonated with customers and that the chain had benefited from pent-up demand and stabilization in the California market. 
 After months of double-digit declines, Saks, the luxury department store chain, also posted a refreshing number: a 0.7 percent sales increase. The chain, a purveyor of $600 shoes and $2,000 suits, said in a news release that it had ''relative strength'' in some of its merchandise categories, like women's designer sportswear, outerwear, jewelry and accessories, and in its e-commerce business and outlet stores, Saks Off 5th. 
 ''It's showing that there's stabilization in the marketplace,'' said Stephen I. Sadove, chairman and chief executive of Saks, ''and I think it shows there was some responsiveness on the part of the consumer.''
 Referring to the stock market, he added: ''The high-end consumer is feeling better at 10,000 than they did at 6,500.'' 
 On Thursday, shares of Saks rose 33 cents, nearly 6 percent, to $5.90. Shares of Nordstrom rose $1.32, or 4 percent, to $33.92. 
 Not all upscale chains fared as well, but Craig R. Johnson, president of Customer Growth Partners, said that even the 6 percent decline at Neiman Marcus was ''a vast improvement from past 16 to 25 percent declines.'' 
 Predictions of better Wall Street bonuses this year bode well for luxury retailers. And with the dollar down substantially, Mr. Johnson said, foreign tourists might begin shopping again. Also, robust sales at chains like Anthropologie and Banana Republic -- not high-end but costlier than many other stores -- may indicate better days ahead.
 ''The patient is out of critical intensive care,'' Mr. Johnson said, ''but is not in full-bloom health yet.'' 
 The first signs of hope in the upscale market came as the nation's chains posted a second consecutive month of sales increases in October, the retailing industry's best performance in more than a year. Over all, the industry reported a 1.8 percent same-store sales increase, according to Thomson Reuters. 
 Retailers have not reported an increase that large since June 2008, when the industry's sales rose 2 percent. Most sectors had sales gains in October, with the exception of teenage-clothing retailers and department stores.
 The chains, of course, were greatly helped by easy comparisons with the dismal results of a year ago. This time last year, Saks was experiencing an unprecedented shutdown in consumer spending. Sales were also driven by October's cool weather and Columbus Day sales. 
 Retailing analysts digested the good numbers with a large grain of salt. Demand for luxury goods is still at 2005 levels, well below the peak. And a month's worth of robust sales cannot undo a year's worth of declines. What retailing professionals are monitoring now is whether consumers are loosening their purse strings. 
 ''There is a general consumer willingness to begin to spend again,'' Mr. Johnson said. 
 Consumers are still demanding value, however. Clothing chains selling designer names at low prices were October's top performers. Same-store sales at TJX, which owns TJ Maxx and Marshalls, increased 10 percent. A TJX competitor, Ross Stores, also thrived, turning in a 9 percent sales increase. 
 Other discounters reported healthy numbers, including Costco (up 5 percent) and Kohl's (up 1.4 percent). Kohl's reported signs of broader recovery, saying in a news release that its strongest year-over-year gains were in the home goods category, a retailing sector hit hard by the recession. And the company said same-store sales increases were notable in the Southwest, a region that was hurt more by the recession than other parts of the country. 
 Sales at BJ's Wholesale Club declined 1.1 percent, though customer traffic was up. Sales at Target dipped by 0.1 percent, yet its sales of clothing were slightly stronger.
 In October, retailers catering to teenage shoppers posted the worst results, with same-store sales declining 5.8 percent, according to Thomson Reuters. Sales fell 15 percent at Abercrombie & Fitch, 8.9 percent at Zumiez, and 6 percent at American Apparel. 
 Analysts attributed those results to high gas prices and unemployment. Some said that retailers were also hurt because Halloween fell on a Saturday -- when teenagers do most of their shopping -- so stores lost a day's worth of sales. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shoppers checking out at a Macy's store in Manhattan. After a year of declines, retailing professionals are monitoring whether consumers are loosening their purse strings.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE SEGAR/REUTERS) CHART: Retail Sales in October: THOMSON REUTERS RETAIL COMPOSITE INDEX: Year-to-year change based on monthly sales at stores open at least a year.(Source: company reports
 Thomson Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (91%); RETAILERS (91%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); US DOLLAR (71%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (70%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (50%)

COMPANY: NORDSTROM INC (85%); DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF SHOPPING CENTERS (57%)

TICKER: JWN (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (85%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (85%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%)

PERSON: GREGORY E JOHNSON (54%); STEPHEN I SADOVE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009



193 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Question Jeopardizes Wind Farm's Stimulus Deal

BYLINE: By TOM ZELLER Jr. and KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
News that $450 million in federal stimulus money might go toward installing Chinese-made wind turbines in Texas prompted criticism on Thursday, with Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, calling on the Obama administration to deny federal financing. 
 According to partners in the deal, the proposed 600-megawatt wind farm, announced late last week, would be built on 36,000 acres in West Texas using 240 wind turbines manufactured by A-Power Energy Generation Systems of Shenyang, China. 
 Partners in the $1.5 billion deal said that while most of the financing would come from unnamed Chinese banks, they would seek about one-third of the project's cost -- $450 million -- from money set aside in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, the huge stimulus bill that passed earlier this year. 
 But that stimulus money, Mr. Schumer said, ''is supposed to create jobs in America.'' 
 The Texas project -- a joint venture between the American private equity firm U.S. Renewable Energy Group, Cielo Wind Power and A-Power Energy -- would create about 300 construction and operational jobs in Texas, according to the partners, but substantially more manufacturing jobs in China. 
 Mr. Schumer pointed to a recent analysis by the Investigative Reporting Workshop, a nonprofit journalism project at American University, which found that 84 percent of the $1.05 billion in ''green'' stimulus funding distributed since September had gone to foreign companies building renewable energy projects in the United States -- mostly wind projects. 
 In a letter he sent to Energy Secretary Steven Chu, the senator urged Mr. Chu to ''reject any request for stimulus money unless the high-value components, including the wind turbines, are manufactured in the United States.''
 But Walt Hornaday, the president of Cielo Wind Power, which is based in Austin and is the largest independently owned wind power developer in the United States, said in a statement that the project would need stimulus money to move forward, and that it was vital to ''engineers, contractors and suppliers who will see millions of dollars of work at a time when energy-based jobs are difficult to find.''
 China has vexed multinational corporations and American officials by blocking access by foreign companies to its own growing renewable energy market, though the country did ease its local-content requirements for wind turbines in talks with American officials last week. 
 The Energy Department noted in a statement that money for this type of project was provided as a tax credit, giving the agency little discretion. Stephanie Mueller, a spokeswoman, said that ''if a taxpayer meets the eligibility requirements, they receive the tax credit.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (93%); WIND POWER PLANTS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TURBINE MFG (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (76%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); JOB CREATION (73%); JOINT VENTURES (72%); BANKING IN CHINA (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (64%)

COMPANY: A-POWER ENERGY GENERATION SYSTEMS LTD (57%); RENEWABLE ENERGY GROUP INC (55%)

TICKER: REGI (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); NAICS325199 ALL OTHER BASIC ORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS237120 OIL & GAS PIPELINE & RELATED STRUCTURES CONSTRUCTION (55%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (89%); BARACK OBAMA (72%); STEVEN CHU (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (95%); NORTHEAST CHINA (79%); LIAONING, CHINA (58%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009



194 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 444 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Push Climate Bill Through Panel Without G.O.P. Debate

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
In a step that reflected deep partisan divisions in the Senate over the issue of global warming, Democrats on the Environment and Public Works Committee pushed through a climate bill on Thursday without any debate or participation by Republicans. 
 The measure passed by an 11-to-1 vote with the support of all the Democratic committee members except Senator Max Baucus of Montana. The seven Republicans boycotted the committee meetings this week, saying they had not had sufficient time to study the bill and demanding that the Environmental Protection Agency conduct a thorough study of its economic costs and benefits. 
 The move suggests that President Obama and Democratic supporters of the bill will have serious problems assembling the votes needed to enact it when it comes to the Senate floor, probably not before next year. 
 Senator Barbara Boxer, Democrat of California, the committee's chairwoman and co-sponsor of the bill, employed a rarely used exception to customary committee rules to muscle the 959-page measure through her panel. She conducted three days of hearings last week on the bill, known as S. 1733, but there was no debate on the complex measure, nor any chance for panel members to offer amendments.
 Mrs. Boxer said that the E.P.A. had already conducted a preliminary analysis of the bill and that further study would be costly and duplicative. She said it was necessary to bypass the committee's rule that required Republican participation because of Republican intransigence and the urgency of the issue.
 ''A majority of the committee,'' she said in a statement, ''believes that S. 1733, and the efforts that will be built upon it, will move us away from foreign oil imports that cost Americans $1 billion a day, it will protect our children from pollution, create millions of clean energy jobs and stimulate billions of dollars of private investment.''
 The senior Republican on the environment committee, Senator James M. Inhofe of Oklahoma, said the bill would harm the American economy and cost millions of jobs. He said the Democrats' decision to ram the bill through ''marked the death knell'' of efforts to enact a comprehensive climate change bill.
 Mr. Baucus's vote against the bill was another ominous sign. He is the influential chairman of the Finance Committee and a senior member of the Agriculture Committee, both of which will have major input in any final climate and energy legislation. He said the bill's emission reduction targets were too ambitious and its agriculture provisions too weak. He said the measure had a long way to go.
 ''This is a first step,'' he said Thursday. ''There will be many other steps.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (75%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); ENERGY REGULATION (72%); BOYCOTTS (71%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (62%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%)

PERSON: BARBARA BOXER (73%); JIM INHOFE (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); MAX BAUCUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009



195 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: Paterson Is Beginning Ad Campaign For Election

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
Seeking to dampen continuing speculation that he will drop his quest for election, Gov. David A. Paterson will run his first television ads on Friday, his campaign announced Thursday.
 The two ads, each 30 seconds long, highlight his biography and address criticism Mr. Paterson has faced from labor unions and business interests over his proposed cuts to the state budget. Both directly confront what polls say is Mr. Paterson's central political problem: widespread public skepticism that he has the ability to lead the state effectively. 
 The first, titled ''Some Say,'' features the governor defending himself. 
 ''Some say I shouldn't be running for governor,'' says Mr. Paterson, before defending his record on fiscal issues. ''It might have been easier if all I thought about was running for governor. But I think it's more important to do what's right for the people of New York.''
 In the second ad, titled ''When,'' a narrator describes Mr. Paterson's educational successes and the burdens of being legally blind, while hinting that the governor has been strengthened by his failures and errors in office.
 ''When you become governor, you learn you will make mistakes,'' the narrator says of Mr. Paterson. ''But in the depths of an historic recession, you take what you have learned and have the strength to do what's right for the people of New York.''
 The governor's campaign spokeswoman, Tracy Sefl, said the campaign had bought a ''substantial, extended and statewide'' ad run. She did not give a precise figure, but characterized it as a ''multimillion dollar buy.'' With many fellow Democrats convinced that he cannot win next year, Mr. Paterson has had difficulty raising money.
 The two ads also unveil Mr. Paterson's new campaign slogan, ''Governor Paterson: The People First.'' Both ads were produced by Murphy Putnam Media, a firm based in Alexandria, Va.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. David A. Paterson in his television ad ''Some Say.''
 An ad focusing on the governor's burdens and successes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (57%); POLLS & SURVEYS (57%); LABOR UNIONS (57%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009



196 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Unlucky and Aloof, Corzine Fell Short of Trenton Goals

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

 BODY:
His concession speech on Tuesday sounded almost like a sigh of relief.
 Considering the career trajectory of Gov. Jon S. Corzine of New Jersey, a man who spent more than $130 million of his fortune on three campaigns but never seemed comfortable operating in the spotlight most politicians relish, it was not surprising, his supporters say, that one of Mr. Corzine's most eloquent speeches came as he accepted his humiliating defeat.
 Mr. Corzine, whose liberal politics made him a misfit on Wall Street, made a brash and expensive debut to elective office by capturing a United States Senate seat in 2000, then five years later seizing the chance to capture the throne of the state's politics, the governor's office. 
 Yet he seemed equally miscast in Trenton, where allies and adversaries considered him too aloof to fully engage in the daily tussle of governing. 
 Mr. Corzine suffered setbacks that were not entirely of his own making. A car crash almost killed him halfway through his term, and forced him to spend months recuperating. Soon afterward, the worst financial climate since the Depression swept the state, forcing him to make unpopular choices.
 In the end, Mr. Corzine fell short of what he had set out to accomplish, deeply disappointing many New Jerseyans who embraced the promise of a Wall Street executive whose business acumen would fix a mismanaged state and bring relief to taxpayers.
 ''He's a nice man with good intentions, but in the end he'll be remembered for timidity,'' said Ross K. Baker, a political scientist at Rutgers University. ''Being a business titan and issuing orders from the corner office is a lot different than having to cajole and persuade people in politics and having the toughness and fortitude to see your vision become reality.''
 State Democratic leaders never truly accepted Mr. Corzine, but were willing to accommodate him -- so long as his fat wallet bankrolled their machinery and his soft-hearted policies mollified labor leaders and party activists.
 To his credit, Mr. Corzine kept enough of a distance from party bosses that he avoided any taint of personal corruption, even as a succession of New Jersey Democratic officials were investigated -- and in many cases, convicted -- for cashing in on their offices. 
 But while his wealth allowed him to fulfill an early campaign promise to be ''unbought and unbossed,'' Mr. Corzine was not unbullied. 
 The governor's inability to stare down the state's free-spending Legislature and its public employee unions doomed his efforts to straighten out New Jersey's troubled finances and undermined the business credentials he was supposed to bring to the job.
 And his awkwardness in public and his reluctance to claim credit for the successes he did achieve made it hard for voters to connect with him, and contributed to his loss on Tuesday to Christopher J. Christie, a Republican and a former federal prosecutor.
 ''Jon spoke sincerely about a lot of things people believed in deeply, like abolishing the death penalty, helping get more insurance for children, changing the way the school funding formula works,'' said State Senator Raymond J. Lesniak, a Democrat. ''But when times are hard and people are worried about supporting their families, they don't necessarily listen to that. Or if they listen, they don't vote that way.''
 Mr. Corzine made a bold entry into politics. As a successful businessman proposing sweeping social programs -- universal health care, universal college tuition, universal prekindergarten education -- he impressed some Democrats as a leader who could usher in an era of business-friendly progressivism.
 But as a junior senator in a body known more for deliberation than decisiveness, his programs went nowhere. After leading the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee during a cycle when Democrats lost four seats, he left the Senate, where his most noteworthy achievement was his effort to shape a corporate ethics bill.
 In Trenton, Mr. Corzine signed bills granting paid family leave, curbing the practice of dual office-holding and so-called pay to play, and abolishing the death penalty. And New Jersey was one of the first states to enact an economic stimulus program after last fall's financial collapse.
 But Mr. Corzine's attempt to enforce his will on the lawmakers by shutting down the state government in 2006 to win approval of a sales tax increase was unpopular, and became a symbol of his pliability when the governor granted more than $300 million in pet projects to legislators in order to win their votes.
 His most ambitious fiscal proposal, a plan to sell and lease back the New Jersey Turnpike, generated an intense backlash, and was ultimately scuttled because it would have required an 800 percent toll increase.
 Mr. Corzine's supporters say that considering the budget mess he inherited, combined with a severe recession, the governor deserves credit for trying to restore fiscal responsibility to state government. 
 ''Jon Corzine showed a lot of courage in doing what will benefit New Jersey for years to come,'' said Gov. Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania, ''and he paid a price for it.'' 
 As Mr. Corzine's poll numbers sagged, many New Jersey Democrats pushed him not to seek a second term. After Mr. Cozine's defeat, Richard J. Codey, the Senate president, revealed that, as recently as July, the governor considered dropping out of the race, as Democrats from Trenton to the White House worried that his bid was a lost cause. 
 Although President Obama campaigned with Mr. Corzine several times, turnout in Democratic areas where the president remains popular was too low for the governor, measured against the flood of Republicans and independents who opposed him.
 Mr. Corzine has not made a public appearance or responded to repeated requests for an interview in the days since his concession speech, and his spokesman said he was not certain when the governor would resume a public schedule.
 In an interview during the final weeks of the campaign, however, Mr. Corzine was philosophical when asked what he might do if he lost, saying it would probably involve some mix of business and philanthropy. ''I've got grandchildren,'' he said with a laugh, ''so I'll keep busy.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 12, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about the election defeat of New Jersey's Democratic governor misspelled his surname at one point and misstated, in some copies, the number of political campaigns in which he spent more than $130 million of his own fortune. As noted elsewhere, he is Jon S. Corzine, not Cozine, and that sum was spent over three campaigns, not two -- one for United States Senate in 2000, and two for governor, in 2005 and this year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Jon S. Corzine speaking to supporters on election night. His Wall Street background failed to make headway against high taxes.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A23)
 Governor Corzine returning to the State House in May 2007, after weeks of recuperation in the wake of a near-fatal car crash.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (67%); CORRUPTION (65%); LABOR UNIONS (61%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009



197 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Obama Faces His Anzio

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Remember those Republican boasts that they would turn health care into President Obama's Waterloo? Well, exit polls suggest that to the extent that health care was an issue in Tuesday's elections, it worked in Democrats' favor. But while health care won't be Mr. Obama's Waterloo, economic policy is starting to look like his Anzio.
 True, the elections weren't a referendum on Mr. Obama. Most voters focused on local issues -- and those who did focus on national issues tended, if anything, to go Democratic. In New Jersey, voters who considered health care the top issue went for Gov. Jon Corzine by a 4-to-1 margin; Chris Christie won voters who were concerned about property taxes and corruption. 
 Yet there was a national element to the election. Voters across America are in a bad mood, largely because of the still-grim economic situation. And when voters are feeling bad, they turn on whomever currently holds office. Even Michael Bloomberg, the mayor of New York City, saw his supposedly easy reelection turn into a tight race.
 And challengers did well even if they had no coherent alternative to offer. Mr. Christie never explained how he can reduce property taxes given New Jersey's dire fiscal straits -- but voters were nonetheless willing to take a flier.
 This bodes ill for the Democrats in the midterm elections next year -- not because voters will reject their agenda, but because all indications are that a year from now unemployment will still be painfully high. And Republicans may well benefit, despite having become the party of no ideas.
 Which brings me to the Anzio analogy.
 The World War II battle of Anzio was a classic example of the perils of being too cautious. Allied forces landed far behind enemy lines, catching their opponents by surprise. Instead of following up on this advantage, however, the American commander hunkered down in his beachhead -- and soon found himself penned in by German forces on the surrounding hills, suffering heavy casualties.
 The parallel with current economic policy runs as follows: early this year, President Obama came into office with a strong mandate and proclaimed the need to take bold action on the economy. His actual actions, however, were cautious rather than bold. They were enough to pull the economy back from the brink, but not enough to bring unemployment down.
 Thus the stimulus bill fell far short of what many economists -- including some in the administration itself -- considered appropriate. According to The New Yorker, Christina Romer, the chairwoman of the president's Council of Economic Advisers, estimated that a package of more than $1.2 trillion was justified.
 Meanwhile, the administration balked at proposals to put large amounts of additional capital into banks, which would probably have required temporary nationalization of the weakest institutions. Instead, it turned to a strategy of benign neglect -- basically, hoping that the banks could earn their way back to financial health.
 Administration officials would presumably argue that they were constrained by political realities, that a bolder policy couldn't have passed Congress. But they never tested that assumption, and they also never gave any public indication that they were doing less than they wanted. The official line was that policy was just right, making it hard to explain now why more is needed.
 And more is needed. Yes, the economy grew fairly fast in the third quarter -- but not fast enough to make significant progress on jobs. And there's little reason to expect things to look better going forward. The stimulus has already had its maximum effect on growth. Even Timothy Geithner, the Treasury secretary, admits that banks remain reluctant to lend. Many economists predict that the economy's growth, such as it is, will fade out over the course of next year.
 The problem is that it's not clear what Mr. Obama can do about this prospect. Conventional wisdom in Washington seems to have congealed around the view that budget deficits preclude any further fiscal stimulus -- a view that's all wrong on the economics, but that doesn't seem to matter. Meanwhile, the Democratic base, so energized last year, has lost much of its passion, at least partly because the administration's soft-touch approach to Wall Street has seemed to many like a betrayal of their ideals.
 The president, then, having failed to exploit his early opportunities, is pinned down in his too-small beachhead.
 If the Democrats lose badly in the midterms, the talking heads will say that Mr. Obama tried to do too much, this is a center-right nation, and so on. But the truth is that Mr. Obama put his agenda at risk by doing too little. The fateful decision, early this year, to go for economic half-measures may haunt Democrats for years to come. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); REFERENDUMS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); PROPERTY TAX (69%); WORLD WAR II (68%); ARMED FORCES (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JON CORZINE (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); CHRISTINA ROMER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009



198 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: Goodbye To Reforms Of 2002

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics in his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
It took just five weeks after the WorldCom accounting scandal erupted in 2002 for Congress to pass, and President George W. Bush to sign, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. That law required public companies to make sure their internal controls against fraud were not full of holes.
 It took three more years for Bernard Ebbers, the man who built WorldCom into a giant, to be sentenced to 25 years in prison for his role in the fraud.
 Mr. Ebbers will be 85 years old before he is eligible for release from prison. He may be freed, however, before the law is ever enforced on the vast majority of American companies. A Congressional committee voted this week to repeal a crucial part of the law. Other parts are also under attack.
 Sarbanes-Oxley was passed, almost unanimously, by a Republican-controlled House and a Democratic-controlled Senate. Now a Democratic Congress is gutting it with the apparent approval of the Obama administration. 
 The House Financial Services Committee this week approved an amendment to the Investor Protection Act of 2009 -- a name George Orwell would appreciate -- to allow most companies to never comply with the law, and mandating a study to see whether it would be a good idea to exempt additional ones as well.
 Some veterans of past reform efforts were left sputtering with rage. ''That the Democratic Party is the vehicle for overturning the most pro-investor legislation in the past 25 years is deeply disturbing,'' said Arthur Levitt, a Democrat who was chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission under President Bill Clinton. ''Anyone who votes for this will bear the investors' mark of Cain.''
 Those who favored the amendment saw it differently. They were simply out to help small businesses, which would be burdened by having to report on whether they maintained acceptable financial controls, and to have auditors check on whether those controls did work.
 They also suggested that more foreign companies would list their securities in the United States if they were spared that onerous requirement. No one seems to have asked if investors really would benefit from making it easier to invest in companies that fear such an audit.
 There are other threats to Sarbanes-Oxley as well. 
 The law set up a long-overdue system of regulating the accounting industry, which had proved time and again that it was incapable of effective self-regulation. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board has done a credible job, but a month from now the Supreme Court will hear a case that could drive it out of existence.
 The Sarbanes-Oxley law also took steps to reinforce the independence of the Financial Accounting Standards Board, which writes accounting rules in the United States. By giving the board a secure source of financing, legislators said they were protecting it from the threats of the companies that had previously made donations to keep the board functioning.
 But this Congress has made clear that independence for the accounting rule writers can go too far -- particularly if the rules force banks to reveal the horrid mistakes they previously made. 
 This year, a subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee held a hearing at which legislators sought no facts but instead threatened dire action if the chairman of the financial accounting board did not promptly make it easier for banks to ignore market values of the toxic securities they owned. The board caved in, which may be one reason why banks are reporting fewer losses these days.
 But the board's retreat was not enough to satisfy the banks. The American Bankers Association is now pushing Congress to give a new systemic risk regulator -- either the Federal Reserve or some panel of regulators -- the power to override accounting standards. The view of the bankers is that the financial crisis did not stem from the fact that the banks made lots of bad loans and invested in dubious securities; it was caused by accounting rules that required disclosure when the losses began to mount.
 The amendment approved this week dealt with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, which has become a rallying cry for opponents of regulation. Some Democrats seem to think that passing it will be seen as pro-business, and thus help to protect vulnerable Democrats who in 2008 won seats previously held by Republicans. The sponsor of the amendment, Representative John Adler of New Jersey, is one such legislator.
 Section 404 was adopted with little controversy in 2002, and for good reason. It simply mandated that public companies report on the effectiveness of their internal financial controls, and that auditors render an opinion on them.
 Since the law already required companies to maintain effective controls -- and had done so since 1977 -- it seemed unlikely that would increase costs much for any company that was already in compliance. And it was crystal clear that controls either did not exist, or were evaded, at WorldCom and Enron.
 Unfortunately, when those Section 404 audits began to be conducted for the largest companies, they were costly. Partly, that was caused by badly designed and overly cautious audits conducted by inexperienced auditors. Experience reduces costs to some extent, and in 2007, the Securities and Exchange Committee and the accounting oversight board adopted reforms to make the audits much less expensive.
 The section has never been enforced for most companies. The S.E.C. repeatedly delayed the effective date for companies with market capitalizations under $75 million, as lobbying grew bolder and legislators like Senator John Kerry, the Democratic presidential candidate in 2004, opposed enforcement of the law. Mr. Bush's last S.E.C. chairman, Christopher Cox, avoided making a decision by ordering one more study that would arrive after he was gone.
 That study showed that Section 404 costs had come down significantly, and last month the S.E.C. under its new chairwoman, Mary L. Schapiro, announced that in the middle of 2010 -- eight years after the law was passed -- all public companies would have to start complying.
 It took just one month for the House committee to vote to gut Sarbanes-Oxley. It voted to exempt those companies worth less than $75 million, and asked for a study on whether companies worth less than $250 million should be allowed to stop complying with the law.
 In doing so, it turned aside a plea from Ms. Schapiro, whose opinions carry far less importance in this Congress than those of lobbyists who claim to represent small business.
 The Supreme Court case, to be heard Dec. 7, is on the somewhat arcane question of whether it was legal for Congress to require that the members of the oversight board be appointed by the S.E.C. rather than by the president or someone directly responsible to him, like the secretary of the Treasury.
 If the Supreme Court rules that the board is illegally appointed, Congress could quickly act to save it by changing the appointment process. But who can be confident that this Congress would want to save the reforms of 2002?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); SCANDALS (78%); AUDITS (77%); SENTENCING (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (76%); APPROVALS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (67%)

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (88%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009



199 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: Tribal Chiefs and the President

 BODY:
White House receptions of American Indian leaders have too often been patronizing historical footnotes. President Obama opened what we hope will be a more promising chapter on Thursday when he met with the leaders from all 564 federally recognized tribes. He vowed that there would be no more ''going through the motions'' and that his administration would finally face the severe economic and social problems that are the result of centuries of federal abuse and neglect. 
 This is no easy vow, but Mr. Obama has taken important first steps: naming American Indians to senior policy and health positions and earmarking $3 billion of the stimulus package to tribal programs. The president told the leaders that he was ordering his cabinet members to come up with plans on how to improve relations with the sovereign tribes. 
 Already this week, Interior Department officials told Congress that they would work to overhaul the often intractable, decades-consuming process by which tribes apply for federal recognition. Recognition is required for tribes interested in seeking revenue by opening a casino. But, more importantly, recognition is the key for tribes ravaged by poverty and joblessness -- and there are far more of those -- to qualify for federal aid programs.
 The tribes gathered at an interesting point in history. The last four censuses show tribal populations booming, where extinction had been the experts' prediction a century ago. Stirred by the Red Power movement of the civil rights era, more and more people have self-identified as American Indians, raising the census count to more than four million. 
 Not all are in recognized tribes, and there is no agreement, even among tribal leaders, on what factors define American Indian-ness. But the vitality is stirring and must be met by greater sensitivity, creativity and sustained attention from Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (77%); CASINOS (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); CENSUS (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009



200 of 874 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: For a District That's Short Of Heroes, A Teamful

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN; Ravi Somaiya contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The ''Canyon of Heroes'' that the champion Yankees will parade through on Friday looks more like the valley of hard times these days.
 After heading north from Battery Park at 11 a.m., the procession will pass the headquarters of Bank of New York Mellon, which lost more than $2.4 billion in the third quarter. Soon after, it will roll by Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy, which laid off 89 lawyers and other staff members five months ago. 
 Then, high up on the left, will be the headquarters of the Nasdaq stock market, whose officials said on Thursday that an unspecified number of layoffs had helped offset a decline in its revenue. Another block up Broadway, the ballplayers will pass offices of Thomson Reuters, whose parent company reported a 60 percent drop in profits. 
 Sure, people will be cheering and the confetti will be flying. But the energy radiating from the offices that line the route may be more cathartic than triumphant. This is, after all, the central artery of the financial district, which has gushed losses -- measured in billions of dollars, tens of thousands of jobs and a few of the city's largest banks -- since the last victory parade, 21 months ago.
 That parade, for the New York Giants football team, preceded the near failures of Bear Stearns and Merrill Lynch and the complete collapse of Lehman Brothers, plus the federal bailouts of Goldman Sachs, Citigroup and other big banks. It came before the recession had sunk its teeth into New York and taken a bite out of the city's collective psyche. Back then, the city's unemployment rate was 4.5 percent; now it is 10.3 percent and twice as many New Yorkers are out of work.
 ''The city needs this,'' said Donato A. Cuttone, who runs a stock brokerage firm with a 10th-floor perch at 111 Broadway. 
 After the financial ''meltdowns'' of the past year or so, Mr. Cuttone said he believed workers in the area surrounding Wall Street were ''more in the mood to celebrate.'' He described business as ''horrible'' but said that his firm is bigger now than it was the last time the Yankees won the World Series, in 2000, though it employs fewer brokers on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange than it did then.
 ''It's very, very tough,'' said Mr. Cuttone, 64. ''Expenses go up, commissions go down and you have to find a way to cope with that. So, for the Yankees to win, it's a definite plus-tick for the city,'' he said, employing a bit of trader-speak for a good thing.
 Noori Rafael, 28, a mortgage banker with GFI Capital Resources Group at 50 Broadway, said watching the parade from the office windows might buoy spirits after recent layoffs there.
 ''Wall Street is just not the same as it was before,'' Mr. Rafael said. ''It has been strained. But over the last few months, there is a feeling that we have hit bottom and the markets are loosening.''
 Renee Rosales-Kopel, a Yankees fan who works in the William Barthman jewelry store at 176 Broadway, recalled hanging banners from the roof for the victory parade after the 2000 World Series against the Mets.
 ''This year,'' she said, ''the mood has changed.''
 Ms. Rosales-Kopel, who was at Yankee Stadium for the final victory on Wednesday night, said some of the players shop in the store. But she added that business was down about 25 percent from last year.
 ''People are hurting,'' she said. ''The ones who are spending feel guilty about it. And a lot of the banks that are still paying are telling staff not to be too showy about their money.''
 Like others who live or work downtown, Ms. Rosales-Kopel said she strongly favored having the parade, despite the weak economic conditions. ''We all need a little euphoria,'' she said. ''It may only be temporary, but I hope it comes with the parade.''
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who was also at Yankee Stadium on Wednesday night, did not specify how much the parade would cost the city but said it was worthwhile.
 ''It will cost us something in terms of police and sanitation,'' he told reporters on Thursday. ''All of the infrastructure stuff, the other stuff, is being paid for with private dollars that are being donated.''
 For example, the mayor said that Atlas Materials in Brooklyn donated the recycled confetti strips that would be distributed by the Downtown Alliance and cleaned up by city workers. 
 Richard Peterson recalled the fun he and his co-workers had at Thomson Financial's offices at 195 Broadway when the Giants paraded by in 2008. ''We had the windows open and people were throwing papers out,'' said Mr. Peterson, who now works for Standard & Poor's.
 He said he did not know how the current mood compared, now that Thomson is part of Reuters, but he had a bit of potentially uplifting information to share: Some number-crunchers in the Capital IQ unit of S&P determined that, on average, the stock market has risen a solid 10 percent in the year after a Yankees championship.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Since the Yankees' last trip up Broadway, in 2000, above left, the mood in the financial district has changed.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARADES & MARCHES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (76%); PARENT COMPANIES (75%); BAILOUTS (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING (72%); SECURITIES BROKERS (69%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (65%); SPORTS (65%); LAYOFFS (57%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%); MILBANK TWEED HADLEY & MCCLOY LLP (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (57%); CITIGROUP INC (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (55%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); CAPITAL RESOURCES GROUP LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (91%); NEW YORK GIANTS (55%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (57%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (57%); C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009

 
