

401 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1997

SECTION: Section 13; Page 8; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: BATTERY PARK CITY;
For the Cinematically Deprived

BYLINE: By BERNARD STAMLER 

 BODY:
It is the most "underscreened" area in town, to use an industry expression: Battery Park City, at Manhattan's southern tip, two miles or more from any meaningful concentration of movie theaters. And though theaters have long been planned, nothing has come to fruition, with previous projects falling victim to adverse economic conditions and financing problems.
But all that is about to change. Representatives of Regal Cinemas, a Tennessee chain, will soon build a 4,500-seat, 16- or 17-screen theater in the heart of the complex, on Vesey Street at North End Avenue, across from the World Financial Center. And until something larger is built -- another chain is talking about putting a 24-screen theater in Times Square, according to a Regal spokesman, Rick Albertson -- the new theaters will make up Manhattan's biggest movie multiplex ever. 
 The theaters are to be at the base of a 14-story, 400-room Embassy Suites Hotel planned by Forest City Ratner, a developer that also built the neighboring New York Mercantile Exchange.
Bruce C. Ratner, president of Forest City, said that his company took over the project in May after the Promus Corporation, the owner of Embassy Suites, missed a financing deadline. Groundbreaking is to take place in next year's first quarter, with construction to take about two years.
Community leaders are enthusiastic, despite some concerns about parking and traffic. Some members of Community Board 1's Battery Park City committee did wonder about the viability of a project in an area where there are still fewer than 10,000 residents.
Regal's calculations went like this, Mr. Albertson says: First, the area south of Union Square has relatively few theaters now.
Then, he said, "As a rule of thumb, you need a population of 10,000 persons per screen." At 16 screens, that would mean 160,000 people working and living in the area, "and lower Manhattan has far more than that," he said, especially in light of increased residential conversions in the financial district. And Mr. Albertson said that Regal, based "right in the Bible Belt," would even agree in writing, if necessary, not to show X-rated films.
That is fine with the Battery Park City committee members.
The housing complex, said its chairwoman, Dorothy Baratta, has evolved from a neighborhood intended for empty-nesters to one that "is full of kids." BERNARD STAMLER

GRAPHIC: Photo: A rendering of the multiscreen theater planned for Battery Park City. (Forest City Ratner)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: REGAL CINEMAS INC NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: REGAL CINEMAS INC NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; THEATERS (BUILDINGS) MOVIE THEATERS (91%); FILM (89%); MOVIE RATINGS (77%); POPULATION SIZE (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); RELIGION (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); EMPTY NESTERS (50%); 

PERSON: STAMLER, BERNARD

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1997



402 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1523 words

HEADLINE: EARNING IT;
Hands and Wrists Are Thrust Into the Hiring Process

BYLINE: By RUSS BRITT 

 BODY:
RICHARD AYERS still struggles to understand.
Mr. Ayers, 32, says he never feels any pain in his hands -- not when he works around the house, not when he plays golf and not when he lifts 15,000 to 20,000 pounds a night at the food distributor where he works. 
 Yet Mr. Ayers says he was denied a higher-paying job five years ago at an auto-parts plant near his home in Ashley, Ill., after the company's doctors declared that he had carpal tunnel syndrome.
"I couldn't see how they could come to a conclusion like that," Mr. Ayers said. "I never had any pain."
Mr. Ayers's case illustrates a growing trend among employers -- especially in labor-intensive businesses -- toward screening job applicants for possible hand and wrist injuries and checking for conditions that are collectively known as repetitive stress injuries.
These injuries can be caused by tasks that involve repetitive motions: using jackhammers, for example, or cutting meat, pitching baseballs or working on assembly lines. One repetitive stress disorder, carpal tunnel syndrome, is a debilitating condition of the hand, arm and wrist that afflicts millions of people, including many who work at computers all day. At some businesses, company doctors conduct pre-employment examinations using electronic instruments to track nerve impulses in the hands and wrists of those who have been offered jobs. In many cases, companies are using the tests to place workers with a proclivity to develop repetitive stress injuries in lower-risk jobs. But some companies withdraw job offers altogether, lawyers for workers say.
THE practice is raising several issues -- the most obvious being whether employers' use of the tests violates applicants' rights, especially under the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1992. The tests have also been criticized as being inaccurate.
"I think workplaces are looking for a way to deal with" workers afflicted with repetitive stress injuries, said Dr. Bruce Bernard, supervising medical officer with the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health in Cincinnati. "I think they've been, for several years, looking for a tool."
The tests are not illegal, according to Chris Kuczynski, assistant legal counsel for the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, who specializes in cases involving the Americans With Disabilities Act. Employers can require physical examinations of applicants as long as they are conducted after an offer is made.
The problem lies in how employers use the results, Mr. Kuczynski said.
If employers can prove that an applicant cannot do a job even with reasonable accommodations, or if the candidate poses a "direct threat" to himself or others in the job, an offer can be withdrawn, Mr. Kuczynski said.
But if repetitive strain constitutes a disability as opposed to an ailment or injury, employers face problems, he added, because excluding workers with diagnosed repetitive stress injuries would be a violation of the Federal law. Coming court cases are expected to define the nature of repetitive stress disorders.
Even if repetitive strain is not a disability, employers still have to show that they are trying to make an assessment of each person's abilities, not just automatically excluding all applicants who might have R.S.I, Mr. Kuczynski said.
Sam Pirtle, human resources supervisor and director of safety at Devilbiss Air Power, an air-compressor maker in Jackson, Tenn., said his company began screening applicants for repetitive strain in 1993 after such cases cost the company $325,000 in compensation and down time.
That year, 23 employees complained of repetitive strain. Last year there were 3, and so far this year there has been only one. Annual costs to the company fell to $18,000 in 1996, he said.
"Anyone that doesn't do pre-employment testing for carpal tunnel syndrome is setting themselves up for a lawsuit," Mr. Pirtle said.
Unlike some companies, Devilbiss has never rejected an applicant deemed at risk for carpal tunnel syndrome, Mr. Pirtle said. The company puts such new hires into less-risky positions.
Devilbiss is among several companies that use the testing methods of Dr. Ronald Bingham, who specializes in occupational medicine. He is medical director of Injury Prevention Specialists Inc., also in Jackson, a business that helps employers screen workers and also helps corporations in workers' compensation cases. He said he was working on pilot programs with several companies, including Kroger, the Cincinnati-based grocery retailer; Jimmy Dean Foods of Memphis, a division of Sara Lee; Maytag in Newton, Iowa; All Steel Office Furniture in Jackson, Tenn.; a Kentucky division of the Dearborn, Mich., clothing company Car Hart, and Wrangler in Greensboro, N.C., the jeans maker owned by the VF Corporation.
Dr. Bingham has tested 10,000 job applicants for repetitive strain in his four years in business.
"A lot of these companies are starting to get their feet wet," Dr. Bingham said. "Meat cutters and garment workers are at the top of the list."
Several of Dr. Bingham's clients have not fully implemented plans for R.S.I. testing.
At Wrangler, Sam Tucker, human resources manager for manufacturing, said the company was not screening people. He said of Dr. Bingham, "We're working with him to see what the benefits may be."
An official at Jimmy Dean Foods, who refused to give his name, said the company was experimenting with R.S.I. screening. Like many doctors who do R.S.I. testing, Dr. Bingham uses a method that sends electronic impulses to points in the hands and wrists. The speed of the impulses is checked; if it is too slow, the person is deemed to have the potential to develop R.S.I.
Managers use tests to help place workers in the right roles, not to exclude workers, Dr. Bingham said. But, he acknowledged, there will inevitably be a case in which no job is available for a worker who does not score well on the test.
"The employer may feel they don't have a job that is not highly hand- and wrist-intensive," Dr. Bingham said. "But we prefer that people use this to help people."
SOME experts on repetitive strain say that while Dr. Bingham's intentions may be noble, his methods are flawed.
Dr. Alfred Franzblau, associate professor of occupational medicine at the University of Michigan, said electronic stimulus testing did not accurately gauge the potential for repetitive strain.
"We have published data that say this type of test procedure has no such validity," Dr. Franzblau said. He and other physicians at the university have written papers on how electronic stimulus exams show signs of repetitive strain when none exists. Follow-up examinations showed no signs of repetitive strain 6 to 18 months after electronic tests turned up positive on several subjects, Dr. Franzblau said. He said he also had found that electronic tests sometimes did not detect repetitive strain when it was present.
Dr. Bernard, the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health physician, said a number of doctors, in addition to Dr. Bingham, conduct such tests. He said some of the legal issues surrounding such testing might be debated in a lawsuit on behalf of 110 job applicants at a Rockwell International plant in Centralia, Ill. (Rockwell is not a client of Dr. Bingham.)
In a suit filed in December 1995 in Chicago by the Equal Employment Opportunities Commission, the applicants say Rockwell rejected them for entry-level jobs from July 1992 through August 1994 based on results of electronic repetitive stress tests.
The applicants contend that Rockwell discriminated against them, a violation of the Americans With Disabilities Act. They also say that Rockwell used employment tests to "screen out a class of individuals perceived to have disabilities."
Martha Garcia is a lawyer who first brought the case to light before joining forces with the E.E.O.C. She still represents 10 of the applicants and said they were bewildered by the company's actions.
"In our group, we found no one that subsequently developed carpal tunnel syndrome," Ms. Garcia said. "What's next, genetic testing?"
Nina Stillman, a lawyer representing Rockwell, said the company would have no comment while the case was pending.
No trial date has been scheduled in the lawsuit, which is not a class action. The Rockwell lawsuit originally included more than 150 applicants, but many were dropped for various reasons.
One of the applicants who was dropped from the Rockwell case was Mr. Ayers, who failed the company's testing, though he said he never had any symptoms. He was rejected four months before the passage of the Federal disabilities law in July 1992.
Mr. Ayers said he remained bitter about the episode. He had left a job as a truck driver, he said, because he thought he would get the Rockwell position. And now he loads 800 to 1,000 boxes of food during the graveyard shift onto pallets for shipping to restaurants and schools, a job he said he clearly could not do without pain if he had carpal tunnel syndrome.
"It wouldn't have been so bad," Mr. Ayers said, "if they hadn't promised me a job."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard Ayers says he lost a chance to get a higher-paying job after an employer determined he was a risk to develop a wrist injury. (Tim Parker for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR COMMUNITY BANKING INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: REPETITIVE MOTION DISORDERS; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; LABOR; HANDS; WRISTS; TESTS AND TESTING EMPLOYMENT (95%); REPETITIVE MOTION DISORDERS (92%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (91%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (88%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (86%); LEGISLATION (78%); GOLF (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); TRENDS (76%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (76%); DISABLED PERSONS (75%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (73%); ANXIETY DISORDERS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (71%); LAWYERS (70%); DISABLED ACCESS (69%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (68%); MENTAL ILLNESS (66%); 

PERSON: BRITT, RUSS; AYERS, RICHARD RICHARD H AYERS (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1997



403 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
In Classical Music, Selling Hard and Selling Out

BYLINE: By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN 

 BODY:
THE fall equinox is just around the temporal bend, but in classical musical life that usually signals the beginning of spring. Each year around this time, as gala opening nights approach and the season's concerts begin, there are numerous signs of rebirth, not just in the halls themselves or in the mounting new releases in the record stores, but in the proliferation of full-color brochures and full-page advertisements.
There are times, in fact, when the marketing ideas seem to eclipse the musical ones. One cellist with a less-than-stunning concert career has been making a killing on a CD because of her photogenic shoulders and the hazy allure of her poses. A recent orchestral subscription brochure looked like a potboiler novel promising romance, passion and relatively painless concerts. In the quest for new audiences, marketing surveys are commissioned, pricing structures redesigned, concert halls redecorated and telemarketers brought in. 
 Everyone is seeking the magic marketing formula: some find it in pandering and popularizing, others in education and thematic programs. One new book, "Standing Room Only: Strategies for Marketing the Performing Arts" (Harvard Business School Press), written by two business professors, Philip Kotler and Joanne Scheff, is at once an instruction manual, a sober-minded analysis, a set of case histories and a hand-holding guide to promotion.
This focus on marketing has come about partly because of increased competition from popular entertainment but also because the art form itself has been fraught with concerns in recent years: concerns about aging audiences, about a drop in the proportion of subscription sales, about the declining number of stars who can instantly sell out halls.
 
Fond Memory
 Speak to a classical musician or someone from the business, and an autumnal melancholia soon sets in. There was once a time, a renowned conductor recalled recently, when the covers of the newsweeklies actually featured classical musicians. There was once a time, some critics remember, when it was actually possible to get into passionate arguments over the virtues of a new compositional style. Aside from opera -- which flourishes with scenic grandeur and self-conscious inventiveness -- the music world often seems to suffer from ever more competition for ever fewer listeners, ever greater expenses with ever fewer donors.
The paradox is that the more marketing succeeds in helping classical music by drawing in listeners and filling halls, the more the music itself might be at risk. Marketing may seem to build audiences but end up endangering them.
This is not just because marketing somehow seems distracting or cheapening to classical devotees. In "Who Killed Classical Music?" (Birch Lane Press, 1997) a spirited polemic, the British journalist Norman Lebrecht sees deeper corruption caused by greedy managers and maestros who set their fees so high that commercial drum-beating is necessary just to survive. But the fees are paid because stars not only fill halls but sell subscription series and inspire donations. And marketing itself, as Mr. Lebrecht shows, has long been intertwined with the art. Witness Verdi's quarreling correspondence with impresarios and managers; P. T. Barnum's hawking of Jenny Lind; 19th-century piano manufacturers engaging in payoffs to gain endorsements, and composers endlessly seeking patrons and commissions. Moreover, marketing can also assist the art by focusing attention and building careers.
The risks of marketing in the current climate are different, though, and have much to do with the recent history of classical music in the United States. The decades following World War II were something of a Renaissance for American classical music. As Mr. Kotler and Ms. Scheff point out, from 1955 to 1985 the number of professional orchestras in the United States grew from 58 to more than 1,000; 27 opera companies multiplied to more than 110. In the 1960's, the Ford Foundation gave $80 million to American orchestras, helping part-time ensembles become full-time institutions, paying salaries, offering more concerts and courting more listeners. During this period, Lincoln Center was built, creating the prototype for modern performing arts centers with its enormous halls. A new economic infrastructure was created for classical music.
 
The Postwar Boom
 But that infrastructure, with its grand scale and grand needs, developed during an unusual period. Musical enthusiasms were fed in part by the presence of extraordinary talents from Europe and the Soviet Union: Fritz Reiner and Arthur Rubinstein, Jascha Heifetz and Igor Stravinsky, Rudolf Serkin and Vladimir Horowitz. Classical music had cultural prestige; it was something to be aspired to. A 1965 report from the Rockefeller Foundation described its view of the nature of artistic leadership: "It is totally inappropriate for those who govern, manage or market the arts to suggest that the product be changed to make it sell better."
Then, several things happened. The culture itself began to change, questioning the very notion of an elite art form, and laying the foundations for multiculturalist arguments. New music splintered, serving specialized subcultures, while pop music became more central. And the American commitment to classical music turned out to be tentative; while in Germany, orchestras and opera houses have been knit into the fabric of municipal life for hundreds of years, here everything was compressed into decades. Meanwhile, the enormous halls, the unionized orchestras, the expanded seasons and administrative staffs needed to be supported. Mr. Kotler and Ms. Scheff quote one symphony marketing director: "My main problem is that I have 30 percent too many concerts to sell." The high fees for classical stars (up to $50,000 for concert appearances in some cases) are a result, not a cause, of this situation; stars are required to prop up an economic apparatus designed by a different culture in a different time.
The risk for classical music is that if marketing doesn't work, that apparatus could collapse. The tragedy is that if it does work, the art itself could be altered, and not necessarily for the better. Classical music has never been a mass-market phenomenon. Classical record sales were about 7 percent of the total sales worldwide 10 years ago and may now be less than 3 percent. The real challenge is to maintain the slipping interest of that audience. But without a widespread cultural transformation in the United States, that percentage is not likely to increase substantially. And even if the art form had no other problems (which is far from the case), it would not be easy for that small niche to keep the large infrastructure humming healthily along.
One solution has been to reach for a larger audience, tapping into mass culture. The concert tour of the pianist David Helfgott, the subject of the movie "Shine," was one example of those efforts. So are the hyperbole, sexual imagery, elaborate packaging and gimmickry often used to sell tickets.
Some of this has always gone on, some will be harmless, and some will actually create new devotees, but one danger already imminent is that listeners will be courted under false pretenses. The concerts themselves will strain to keep their attention. Programming and recording priorities will change. The core audience may dwindle in response. And those who govern, manage or market classical music may be tempted to change the art to suit the ready audience rather than reach the audience ready for the art.

GRAPHIC: Photo: How to expand a market that accounts for 3 percent of sales? Come-ons on the covers at Tower Records on Manhattan's West Side. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING; RECORDINGS (AUDIO); CLASSICAL MUSIC CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); TRENDS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (76%); MARKETING STRATEGY (75%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); WRITERS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INTERIOR DECORATING (73%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); MUSIC STORES (71%); TELEMARKETING (70%); MARKETING SURVEYS (70%); CORRUPTION (60%); 

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, EDWARD

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1997



404 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2924 words

HEADLINE: Adding Sweat and Muscle To a Familiar Formula

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN 

 BODY:
YOU can usually tell that you are in the offices of a women's magazine as soon as you walk off the elevator. Racks of clothing crowd the corridors, waiting to be photographed for a fashion spread. The smell of baking from test kitchens clashes with the scent of perfumes to be featured in the beauty pages.
How startling, then, to enter the midtown Manhattan headquarters of the newest Conde Nast Publications women's magazine the other day and find the hallways filled with helmets -- motorcycle helmets, lacrosse helmets, equestrian helmets and bike helmets -- and rows of different brands of hiking boots lined up against the wall. 
 Something unusual seemed to be afoot in the world of women's magazines.
"It's a totally fresh look at how women in America view themselves," said the woman presiding at the scene, Lucy S. Danziger, the editor in chief of Conde Nast Sports for Women, which covers professional as well as participatory sports and arrived on newsstands last week. "Women feel like they're in the driver's seat; they have the ball. We're not knocking on the door asking to play. We're not asking for permission anymore. Sports is a great metaphor for all this."
With its new magazine, Conde Nast, the Advance Publications unit that is one of the nation's most successful magazine publishers, has about $30 million riding on that metaphor. And it is not alone. Time Inc. recently published the second and final test issue of Sports Illustrated Women/Sport, a $1 million project thus far. And Weider Publications, which publishes titles like Men's Fitness and Shape, has spent $20 million to start Jump, a life-style magazine for teen-age girls, with an emphasis on athletics.
Viewed against the many other magazines that crowd the women's field, these new publications appear to be up to something revolutionary: focusing on subject matter beyond the typical fare of fashion, beauty and sex. And they are presenting a female esthetic that departs radically from the you-can-never-be-too-thin ideal.
"It's a whole different woman," Gene DeWitt, president of DeWitt Media, a media buying company, said in describing the target audience for the new magazines. "The Cosmo woman is someone whose life, to a large extent, is a function of relationships with men, where this new image is about a woman's own feelings of self-worth."
But if some in the business are rushing to predict that these new magazines will prompt an across-the-board transformation in women's magazines, long-time publishing executives say pronouncements about breaking ground are premature, and unrealistic.
The industry, after all, remains in thrall to fashion and beauty advertisers. The leading national advertisers for toiletries and cosmetics alone spent $353 million in women's magazines in the first eight months of this year, according to Competitive Media Reporting. Advertisers for apparel, footwear and accessories spent $83 million.
And while the sports publications may have created a new category of women's magazines -- covering topics from women's boxing to basketball to kung fu fighting -- a close look at their content reveals that the old formula also endures.
The new sports magazines have fashion, although the women are wearing sports jerseys and athletic shorts. They have beauty, although the featured products tend toward soaps for use after a workout or mascara that doesn't run in the pool. And they all talk about men, albeit with a sporting motif.
The first issue of Conde Nast Sports for Women includes a feature, "Love Among the Bunkers: What Happened When Our Bachelorette Set Out to Bag Mr. Right at a Stop on the P.G.A. Tour?" by Candace Bushnell, a sex columnist. A question-and-answer column in the first issue of Sports Illustrated Women/Sport asks, "Is it O.K. to have sex before the game?" And the first issue of Jump has an article titled, "What Makes Boys Cringe, Cave and Crumble."
All of which suggests that even in the third decade of the women's movement -- after women have ascended in fields like politics, business and publishing, and presumably have a wide range of interests -- the magazines that serve them seem intent on remaining basically the same, as interested in recipes, diets, makeovers and blind dates as they were in the 1970's.
"I think the world changes a lot faster than women's magazines," said Sandra Bailey, the editor of Women/Sport.
Magazine executives say this is because women's magazines have no financial incentive to do things differently; the old ways still work. Editors of women's magazines know, for example, that beauty sells even better than fashion, because a lipstick is a less expensive mode of transformation than a sweater.
They know that what moves a cover off a newsstand is a picture of a beautiful woman -- making eye contact with the camera -- and cover lines that promise quick routes to perfection: "Your Breasts: How to Keep Them Healthy, Smooth and Firm" (Redbook); "Killer Clothes for Body Bummers" (the teen magazine YM); "Easy Orgasms: How to Make Them Mind-Blowing and a Lot Less Work" (Cosmopolitan); "Fight Winter Fat" (Shape), and "Dinner Party 101: Step-by-Step Recipes for the Insecure Cook" (Good Housekeeping).
Editors also know that while women may complain about the tyranny of unattainable bodies, aspirational images still sell magazines. "The girls on the front of the magazine have to be prettier, something to aspire to," said Lesley Jane Seymour, the editor in chief of YM. "Readers may say they want more reality, but when you give them more reality it doesn't sell."
Bonnie Fuller, the editor in chief of Cosmopolitan, said: "I don't think women are buying magazines to look at their next-door neighbors. Women enjoy fantasy. It's genetic."
STILL, there are reasons to question whether traditional magazines are meeting women's needs. Subscription and newsstand sales across the women's category declined in the first half of this year, compared with the first half of 1996, according to the Audit Bureau of Circulations. Declines in newsstand sales, for example, ranged from 2.2 percent at Glamour to 7.3 percent at Vogue and a bruising 23.2 percent at Woman's Day.
Such losses mirror a downward trend among the women's service magazines, which are known in the business as the seven sisters: Good Housekeeping, Redbook, Family Circle, Woman's Day, McCall's, Better Homes and Gardens and The Ladies' Home Journal. The seven have lost about 15 percent of their combined rate base over the last decade, according to Media Week, a trade publication. Industry experts attribute this downturn largely to an overabundance of titles.
Editors of the new magazines trumpet their publications as a refreshing change from business as usual -- even, on a grander level, political progress. But far from advancing some brave new vision for women in the 21st century, the industry experts say, the new sports magazines have simply identified a potentially lucrative market and are hoping to cash in.
"It's not a quantum shift; it's just publishers looking for new niches," said Martin S. Walker, a magazine consultant in Manhattan.
Sure enough, 18 advertisers in the first issue of Sports for Women had never bought space in Conde Nast's other 14 publications, said the magazine's publisher, Suzanne M. Grimes.
And Ms. Bailey, the editor of Women/ Sport, concedes that her new magazine is primarily looking to make a profit, not a statement. "I don't think any publishing house lets its sense of political correctness guide it," she said.
History does not encourage real risk-taking in the women's field or, for that matter, in any category of magazine publishing. Consider Ms. magazine, which has a circulation of 200,000, and Working Woman (666,000), compared with Good Housekeeping (4.6 million), Seventeen (2.5 million) and Vogue (1.1 million). Ms., Working Woman and Working Mother almost slipped into bankruptcy because of management problems before being acquired last year by the MacDonald Communications Corporation.
Polly Perkins, a former publisher of Bon Appetit magazine, said she tried in vain to drum up interest among publishing companies before starting the magazine Sports Traveler at her own expense last September. "I was not able to convince the corporate world that women's sports was an important issue," Ms. Perkins said. The magazine has since suspended publication, and Ms. Perkins filed suit against Conde Nast accusing it of trademark infringement -- saying, essentially, that it stole the idea.
On the other hand, Women's Sports + Fitness magazine, which was founded in 1974, is now riding the new tide of interest: its circulation increased nearly 9 percent in the first half of this year, to 218,000.
SOME feminists say women's magazines cannot afford to venture too far from traditional editorial categories because fashion and beauty advertisers are a publisher's bread and butter. "I can't overstate how inhibiting the advertising structure is to women's magazines," said Gloria Steinem, the feminist writer who helped found the 25-year-old Ms. magazine, which stopped accepting advertising in 1990.
"Women's magazines are more subjected to advertising pressures because they are expected not just to withhold criticism of advertisers but to praise advertisers in editorial features," Ms. Steinem said. "They're serving the advertisers more than they're serving the reader. They like to say it's the same, but it isn't. Women do not need all those little diagrams about how to put on their blush."
Nancy F. Smith, the editor in chief of Working Woman, disagreed. "The reader makes the ultimate decision," she said. "Six million readers want Cosmo and Better Homes and Gardens." (Actually, about 10 million readers want those magazines; Cosmopolitan's circulation is 2.5 million, and Better Homes's is a whopping 7.6 million.)
Many editors say that if a lot of beauty and fashion still occupy their pages, it is because readers want it that way. Indeed, over the last 12 months, readers of women's magazines spent $52 billion on apparel and about $4 billion on cosmetics, according to Simmons Market Research Bureau.
"Women still equate how they look with how they feel," said Margery Gladstone, the publisher of Fitness, a Gruner & Jahr magazine.
Myrna Blyth, editor in chief and publishing director of The Ladies' Home Journal, said: "Let's face it, in this world we do want to look our best. We do want to be thin."
Kate Savastio, who was reading The Ladies' Home Journal on the subway in New York last week, said she read that magazine as well as Marie Claire and occasionally Vogue as an "escapist" pastime. Although, at 275 pounds, she does not see herself reflected in those magazines, Ms. Savastio said she did not expect to. "Not in a million years would I see myself, but it doesn't bother me," said Ms. Savastio, an administrative assistant who works in a Manhattan public relations firm. "It's not like I'm buying it to see myself."
WEIDER PUBLICATIONS, however, said it created the magazine Jump on the theory that young women would rather have a larger dose of reality. The motto of the new magazine, which has guaranteed advertisers a circulation of 300,000, is "for girls who dare to be real." The first issue features an article titled, "Every Body's Perfect: How to Love What You've Got."
"Its position and purpose is to fill a void: helping young girls reach a higher level of self-esteem and self-image," said Michael T. Carr, Weider's president and chief executive. "There are all these magazines telling women how to look, how to dress, how to get the boy, and not enough about how to feel good about yourself."
At Conde Nast Sports for Women, which is starting with a guaranteed circulation of 350,000, Ms. Danziger is also trying to send women a different message. "We're not selling insecurities," she said. "We're selling a life style, but not a quick life fix, which I think a lot of women's magazines do."
And the people at Sports Illustrated Women/Sport, which will also guarantee 350,000 subscribers if it goes forward, say they are trying to talk to women about sports the way Sports Illustrated has long spoken to men. "We're going to take women's sports very seriously," said Alvaro J. Saralegui, the general manager of Sports Illustrated, who is in charge of developing new products. "This is not a fitness magazine. If you want to have firmer abs in 10 days, this is not the magazine for you."
The start-ups have been fueled by the convergence of several factors, namely a generation of women who grew up with the benefits of Title IX, the 1972 Federal law that requires equal opportunity for women and girls to play sports in schools that receive Federal funds. Last year, one in three girls participated in high school sports, compared with one in 27 in 1971. In addition, magazines are capitalizing on the excitement over women's achievements in last year's Olympics; the start of the Women's National Basketball Association this summer and the emergence of fresh new professional athletes like Rebecca Lobo in basketball and Martina Hingis and Venus Williams in tennis.
Women's sports, moreover, has grown into a $20 billion market in this country, including equipment, footwear and apparel (compared with the nearly $17 billion beauty business and the $85 billion women's fashion apparel market), and the National Sporting Goods Association said that figure was conservative. In 1996, women and girls ages 7 and over bought at least $6 billion worth of athletic footwear, more than half of that market.
"Those are powerful economic numbers," said Ms. Bailey, who will remain Olympics editor at Sports Illustrated until Time Inc. decides whether to give the green light to Women/Sport -- probably by the beginning of next year.
Perhaps most notably, the new magazines have set out to redefine beauty and expand the options for what women do with their free time. "You're beautiful even if you're muddy and, by traditional standards, unattractive," Mr. Saralegui said. "Because you're competing. You're in control of your life."
The woman pictured on the cover of Sports for Women is holding a football. The woman on the cover of Women/Sport is kicking a soccer ball. And Jump's cover article, "Playing With the Boys," features five teen-age athletes, all girls, and the sports they play: ice hockey, water polo, wrestling, football and golf.
Several models appearing in the new magazines are sinewy and big-boned, a far cry from the emaciated look of Kate Moss or the sunken-eyed sullenness known as heroin chic. "They have muscles," Ms. Danziger said of the models in her magazine. "They fill out their clothes. You're never going to see somebody who looks hungry or wan or dreary."
Pecs and perspiration notwithstanding, some worry that these sports magazines are simply substituting one impossible ideal for another. "My concern is what we're still going to end up with is a certain kind of model fitness," said Marcia Ann Gillespie, the editor in chief of Ms. magazine. "Are we going to see the woman bodybuilder? The size 14 athlete? Or is it still going to be the size 6 or the 4 or, in the case of gymnasts, the minus 2?"
Other niche magazines are also trying to address these issues. In February, for example, Julie Lewit-Nirenberg and Nancy Nadler LeWinter, who used to work in mass-market magazines, started a glossy fashion publication called Mode for women size 12 and above; tomorrow it is expected to announce a partnership with Freedom Communications. And last spring, Meredith Publications -- which publishes The Ladies' Home Journal and Better Homes and Gardens -- introduced More, a magazine aimed at women over age 45.
SUPPORTING this new magazine message of self-acceptance, a survey released to advertisers in Manhattan last week found that 84 percent of 1,000 women nationwide were satisfied with the direction of their lives and 53 percent liked their general appearance. "This is kind of a wake-up call that the mood of women is changing," said Madelyn Hochstein, the president of DYG, the social and marketing research firm that conducted the study with The Ladies' Home Journal. "Women are moving away from the guilt and obsession with weight to a concern about it more in a health context and almost a defiance of the fashion industry that says, 'It's O.K. to be a little bit heavier.' "
Editors of established women's magazines say they assume that the reader they speak to now is more confident, accomplished and multifaceted than the reader of past years. Some editors have published articles about formerly taboo topics like lesbian love and the dangers of cosmetic surgery. Many have regular features on fitness and health as well as national politics and personal finance.
Linda Wells, editor in chief of Allure, a beauty magazine that is six years old, said she had never printed a diet or a step-by-step exercise program. "I find those enormously old-fashioned," she said. "You're saying to the reader, 'Here's what's wrong with you and how to fix it.' "
Nevertheless, Ms. Wells said, women remain "hugely" interested in appearance and clothes. There is no crime in that, she said, nor should anyone think that is all women care about.
"The argument gets so simplistic -- that if you care about the way you look, you're a bimbo," Ms. Wells said. "We know that's not true. We say to women: 'This is a beauty magazine, and it's not anything else. So read it and get on with your life.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sandra Bailey, the editor of Sports Illustrated Women/Sports, cites "powerful economic numbers" that support the new sports magazines for women. (Librado Romero/The New York Times); Lucy S. Danziger, editor in chief of Conde Nast Sports for Women: 'Women feel like they're in the driver's seat; they have the ball.' (Thomas Dallal for The New York Times)(pg. 14); THEN Mademoiselle, April 1975; NOW Redbook, September 1997 (pg. 15)
 
Photo/Chart: "Can You Tell the Difference?"
The new sports magazines have fashion, and the established fashion magazines have exercise. Try to match the headlines below with the covers.
 
1 "Shopping for...Gear Designed for Women."
2 "Energy: How to Get It, How to Keep It, Especially in Winter."
3 "Zen Macroboiotics: Diet That's Killing Our Kids"
4 "Last Light: Summer's Over, But You Can Keep That Surfer Look All Year Long."
5 "Excercise Machines That Really Deliver."
6 "Get in Shape with Holly McPeak."
7 "How to Right Your Exercise Wrongs: An Expert's Advice on Making Your Workout Work."
8 "Nobody's Perfect: What to Wear if You are Too Tall, Short, Heavy."
 
Answers to Page 1 Quiz
 
1 Sports Illustrated Women/Sport, 1997
2 Glamour, 1976
3 The Ladies' Home Journal, 1971
4 Conde Nast Sports for Women, 1997
5 Good Housekeeping, October 1997
6 Women/Sport, 1997
7 Mademoiselle, 1983
8 Harper's Bazaar, 1989 (pg. 15)
 
Charts: "More of the Same" shows percentage of editorial space devoted to fashion, beauty, health, relationships and self-improvement in 14 women's magazines in 1976, 1986 and 1996. (Source: Hall's Magazine Reports)(pg. 14)
 
"Anatomy of a Cover"
Hemlines and hairstyles may change, but the categories of subjects in women's magazines endure. So do the elements of the cover photograph: it should be of a beautiful woman who makes eye contact with the camera. How beautiful depends on the magazine. If it's Glamour, the model should look real and as if she has an intelligent thought in her head. If it's Vogue, she should simply be perfect. Celebrities and supermodels welcome.
Below, a few essential principles for cover line elements - as true today as they were 20 years ago.
 
SEX These days, almost anything goes. Women have a new sense of entitlement. Feel free to use the word orgasm.
 
RELATIONSHIPS Women love to know what makes men tick. Can't have too many articles that deconstruct men.
 
FASHION Should generally strike a balance between what's current and what's affordable. But fashion magazines don't need to worry about making fashion realistic.
 
BEAUTY A must-have. It's cheaper than shopping for clothes, and women love change. So bring on the newest nail colors and makeup tips.
 
FOOD Do diets and recipes; women are obsessed with food.
 
HEALTH The new hot topic; move beyond breast cancer. (pg. 15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CONDE NAST SPORTS FOR WOMEN (MAGAZINE); SPORTS ILLUSTRATED WOMEN/SPORT (MAGAZINE); JUMP (MAGAZINE) TIME INC (84%); CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONDE NAST SPORTS FOR WOMEN (MAGAZINE); SPORTS ILLUSTRATED WOMEN/SPORT (MAGAZINE); JUMP (MAGAZINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MAGAZINES; WOMEN; ATHLETICS AND SPORTS MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); SPORTS (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); WOMEN (89%); NEWSSTANDS (78%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (77%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (77%); HIKING (73%); SURFING (72%); LACROSSE (70%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (55%); 

PERSON: POGREBIN, ROBIN MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1997



405 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: OFF THE RACK;
Money Goes Fast-Forward In Celebration of Its Past

BYLINE: By FRED BROCK 

 BODY:
MONEY magazine has seen the future, and it's Hollywood. The one in Florida, not California.
The Florida city was at the top of the list in the magazine's search for a place that most resembles how the United States is likely to look, demographically, 25 years from now. 
 Money used Census Bureau statistics and projections that were matched with data from the nation's metropolitan areas. The surprising answer was Hollywood, a city of 126,000 north of Miami.
The exercise, in the October issue, is part of the magazine's celebration of its 25th anniversary. With a circulation of 1.9 million, Money is the leader in the increasingly crowded field of personal-finance magazines.
America is growing older, and Hollywood, according to Money, is pretty much on target in terms of national projections for 2022: 27 percent of the city's residents are 55 or older; 13 percent are 45 to 54, and 31 percent are 25 to 44.
The city is also 25 years ahead of the nation ethnically: Hispanic residents are 17 percent of the population and blacks, 13 percent. But the city has an Asian population of only 2 percent compared with a national projection of 6 percent for 2022.
In addition to an increasingly aging and diverse population, Money also sees the following trends over the next 25 years:
* The rich will get richer as America becomes more of a "winner take all" society. Immigration and global competition will limit wage increases for the least-skilled workers.
* Computers will be everywhere, as their use spreads much like automated telephone answering systems have done in this decade.
* Breakthroughs in biotechnology will mean that this industry will finally pay off.
* Globalization will fuel an economic boom and investment opportunities will become even better. The Dow Jones industrial average, according to Money, could hit 55,000 by 2022. Is this the same magazine that on its August cover had a heading screaming: "Sell Stock Now!" and had been predicting a market correction of 20 percent within a year or so? Yes, but that notion seems to have been quietly dropped from the current issue, presumably to focus on the longer view.
The magazine's anniversary cover is a disappointment. It's hard to argue with success, but a reader might be forgiven for confusing Money's "signature" (read: they often look pretty much alike) covers: often bright, smiling yuppies engaged in some cost-intensive sport or activity and declaring that they've been so clever with money that they can retire while the rest of us are still making car payments.
The October cover has a photograph of a young couple on a sailboat; a big red headline says, "Get It All." A smaller headline at the top of the cover touts the anniversary issue, and the magazine's name is superimposed on a big silver 25. But the cover fails to hint at some of the unusual -- and pretty good -- things inside, including the Hollywood article.
 
WORTH A LOOK -- The attention-grabbing cover of the month is clearly Worth magazine's, which displays a campy, full-length photo of Marilyn Monroe in an aqua-blue swimsuit against an orange background. The October cover illustrates an article by Andrew Tobias about his passion for collecting historic documents and items signed by famous people. John Koten, Worth's editor, writes that the cover is a reminder that financial matters "can be fun."
 
IN YOUR INTEREST -- If you carry a credit card balance and your bank is charging interest rates that could make a loan shark blush, the October-November issue of Your Money offers some advice that may help.
"Winning the Credit Card Game," by Christine Verdi, describes what to look for and what to avoid in selecting a card, and tells how to deal with credit card companies that try to lure you with low rates that head north later.
Paying your balance in full each month is no longer a sure way to avoid fees, the article points out. As more and more companies have quietly dropped their no-annual-fee policies, some have also piled on other charges: fees of as much as $25 a year for not carrying a balance, similar fees to close an account and fees of up to $15 if you don't use your card for six months.
And there may be more. The article reports that other fees may pop up soon, like customer-service charges for extra credit cards or an extra copy of a statement, and a charge if you check your balance over the telephone more than once or twice a month.
The October issue of Kiplinger's takes out after banks that nickel-and-dime their checking and savings account customers with myriad charges -- like $8 to speak to a teller or $1 to make a deposit without using a preprinted slip. "Customers are feeling ambushed" by such charges, the magazine says.
Kiplinger's offers six alternatives -- including banking over the Internet, or asset-management accounts at discount brokers -- that have few, if any, fees. A top choice is USAA Federal Savings Bank of San Antonio (800 531-2265), which has no fees and no minimum balance for a checking account. Beginning next month, USAA will credit $1.50 to a customer's account each time another bank charges that customer to use its automated teller machine, up to $15 a month. Customers anywhere in the country can use the bank.
 
HIT THE ROAD -- Smart Money's October issue, along with Kiplinger's and Money, has advice on buying a car. Smart Money rates some 1998 models it likes. Money, looking at prices, points out that some models cost as much as 8 percent less than they did in 1997. Kiplinger's advises on how to haggle for the best price.
 
BITS AND PIECES -- October's Working Woman magazine profiles the top 50 businesses owned by women. . . . Worth has a state-by-state list of its favorite 250 financial advisers. . . . Bloomberg Personal offers "The Crash of '97," a fictional account of how a 35 percent market plunge would affect three households across the country; the article is by the novelist Paul Erdman, author of "The Panic of '89."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MONEY (MAGAZINE); CENSUS BUREAU DOW JONES & CO INC (53%); DOW JONES & CO INC (53%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MONEY (MAGAZINE); CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; HOLLYWOOD (FLA); UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FORECASTS TRENDS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (79%); CENSUS (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); STATISTICS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); CITIES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); STOCK INDEXES (62%); IMMIGRATION (50%); 

PERSON: BROCK, FRED

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1997



406 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS;
Equity Funds Gallop Past a Big Benchmark

BYLINE: By SHARON R. KING 

 BODY:
FOR the first time in many quarters, well over three-fourths of all domestic stock funds are beating the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.
So far this quarter, nearly 82 percent of United States equity funds are posting better returns than that hard-to-beat benchmark. Only 10.6 percent did so in the first quarter, which was one of the worst in recent years for actively managed funds. 
 The tide changed in the last few months as investors' infatuation with small-company stocks grew and as large, multinational companies, concerned about the strengthening dollar, warned of possible earnings disappointments. That signaled that the big companies' growth would no longer outpace that of smaller companies, which are traditionally seen as a high-growth sector.
The last time that more than 75 percent of actively managed portfolios beat the index was during the third quarter of 1993, as investor dissatisfaction with President Clinton's health care initiative beat down health care stocks, and concern about the power of brand names pushed down consumer stocks, said Thomas McManus, senior investment strategist at NatWest Securities. But small caps and cyclical stocks did well.
Generally, the S.& P. index is driven by the performance of about 50 large multinational companies. And when those companies falter, the setting is ripe for funds with a broader variety of stocks to post strong gains, said Gail Dudack, chief equity strategist at UBS Securities.
Because mutual funds tend to hold an array of more economically sensitive stocks, Mr. McManus said, they are more likely to do better then broad market indexes as the economy improves.
Although small-company stock indexes have done so well that they are catching up to the S.& P. 500 for the year, some analysts caution that the outperformance of the small stocks could be short-lived with the economy strengthening.
"Remember what happened to the market in 1994," Mr. McManus cautioned. As the economy showed signs of picking up steam, the Federal Reserve raised interest rates several times, and "the average stock went down a lot more than the indexes."
So far, the Fed has been "vigilantly" eyeing the economy without moving to stem growth by raising interest rates, he said. "But it's my view the Fed is not going to be on the sidelines forever."
Others foresee the next wave as a stock-picker's nirvana, with undervalued companies appearing across a broader spectrum.
"I don't think it's a question of small caps versus large caps," said Michael Powers, a senior vice president and portfolio manager at Provident Investment Counsel. "Those companies that are able to deliver solid earnings growth and solid revenue growth will do better."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "An Unusual Surge" shows domestic equity funds that have outperformed the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index each quarter since 1992. (Source: Morningstar Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: 300 NORTH CAPITAL LLC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); US DOLLAR (70%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (70%); INTEREST RATES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); 

PERSON: KING, SHARON R BILL CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1997



407 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Disunited Kingdom

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

 BODY:
GOADED by the modernizing passion of Prime Minister Tony Blair, Britain has embarked on a program of constitutional reform -- of basic change in the structure of the country and its government -- that has no parallel in this century. The question is this: Will it create a more nimble, more efficient system, closer to the people, or will it create more layers of bureaucracy and lead to a Disunited Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland?
British government has been strongly centralized since the Act of Union of 1707, more so since Margaret Thatcher weakened local government a decade ago. But now it is adopting a more federal system. 
 Scotland voted overwhelmingly this month to create its first Parliament since the dawn of the 18th century, with broad authority in many areas and the right to set taxes within narrow limits. By a much narrower margin, Wales voted on Thursday to create a less powerful parliament, its first since the 15th century.
Mr. Blair has promised London its first elected mayor ever, if voters of the city agree in a referendum scheduled next May, and he has hinted at establishing regional bodies around England to deal with local issues.
Northern Ireland will doubtless be given a form of self-government if the current negotiations bring an end to the long civil war there. And, of course, the most publicized jolt to Britain's sense of nationhood is its orgy of speculation about the future of the monarchy since the death of Diana, Princess of Wales, in a car accident.
Critics of the devolution process argue that it will only exacerbate the strains that already exist among Britain's component parts. With assemblies in Scotland and Wales, they ask, will English voters tolerate continued subsidies for the Scottish and Welsh economies and over-representation for Scotland and Wales in the Parliament at Westminster?
The Scottish National Party, which backed devolution, sees it as a halfway house on the road to independence. Mr. Blair's supporters, however, say his program is deeply conservative. By giving Scottish and Welsh voters a stronger voice in their affairs, his supporters say, he is binding them more closely to the nation. Under the new dispensation, Scots will not confront the anomaly they faced under Mrs. Thatcher, when they chose mostly Labor members of Parliament to represent them in London, only to have their voices lost in the roar of Tory majorities.
Scots had shown "the courage and confidence to trust themselves," said Mr. Blair, sounding not unlike the Republican Presidents (now joined by Bill Clinton, a Democrat) in arguing that the best government is the government that is closest to the people. It is good politics, at least in the short term; however tradition-steeped the British may be, they share a feeling with many Americans that their governmental institutions are creaky and inefficient.
Devolution is nothing new for the British. Scotland, England and Northern Ireland compete separately in many international sporting events. Scotland already has its own legal code and school system. Before Mrs. Thatcher, local government in Britain was muscular and innovative (and Labor-dominated and free-spending, which is why she cut it back).
The nation is bound together by language (though other languages are preferred in parts of Britain's Celtic fringe); a common passport (though it has been homogenized with those of the rest of the European Union), and a common economy. But most of all it is bound together by the monarchy.
Despite wide criticism of the Royal Family in the wake of Diana's death -- 39 percent of respondents in a national poll said they thought less of it -- there is little support for doing away with the monarchy. In that same poll, 73 percent said they wanted it to continue. Prince Charles is not popular, but that does not mean that he cannot become popular.
His mother, Queen Elizabeth II, has made concessions to the public will, such as her agreement in 1992 to pay income tax, and her belated decision to honor Diana in a number of ways. Charles's biggest problem is the aging palace courtiers who habitually resist change, and in his forthcoming struggle with them to modernize the monarchy, it is now clear that he will have the unflinching support of Mr. Blair as national modernizer-in-chief.
If they succeed, the sovereign could again provide a rallying point for increasingly self-governing countries, as James I did briefly as king of both Scotland and England from 1603 to 1625, before the outbreak of civil war.
These issues are hoary and contentious ones in the British Isles.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wales voted yes, in two languages. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (98%); WALES (95%); SCOTLAND (94%); ENGLAND (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED KINGDOM (98%); WALES (95%); SCOTLAND (94%); ENGLAND (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION ELECTION LAW (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); REFERENDUMS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); BRITISH ROYALTY (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MAYORS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (66%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (63%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR TONY BLAIR (89%); BILL CLINTON (73%); PRINCESS DIANA (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1997



408 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: The World;
To Deplore Capitalism Isn't Always To Fight It

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN 

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
FOR Karl Marx, the right approach to private property was simple: abolish it. But from Beijing to Paris, two cities where Communists are in government, the question of how to deal with property has become a complicated one, exposing the strangely divergent hues of Communism today.
Announcing the sale of more than 10,000 Chinese state industries to shareholders, President Jiang Zemin this month took his country's Market-Leninism to a new apogee. The measures -- though dressed in official gobbledygook about "public ownership" -- clearly had nothing to do with Communism as Marx understood it. 
 They did, however, have much to do with the global market's power to absorb 1.2 billion Chinese in the quest to get rich and with Lenin's exploitation of Marxism to arrive at something unimagined by Marx: the dictatorial concentration of power. For Mr. Jiang, China's future appears to lie in a bizarre marriage of Leninist expediency and Silicon Valley worker-ownership: Mao meets Microsoft by way of "Deng Xiaoping theory."
Four days after the 15th Chinese Party congress opened with its message that state ownership was bunk, Robert Hue, the leader of the French Communist Party, told a large rally in Paris that it might be time to accept the principle that some of France's state-owned industries should admit "small minority stakes of private capital." A wave of booing greeted the suggestion.
 
From Marx to Mishmash
 Privatization remains anathema to French Communists even as it is embraced -- albeit with semantic obfuscation -- by the Chinese and energetically pursued in all frankness, if with some fiddling, by the former Communists of central and eastern Europe.
Communism has come a long way since the Manifesto published 149 years ago by Marx and Friedrich Engels. It no longer poses a threat to capitalism or to America, but it has survived gulags, barbaric social engineering and the collapse of the Soviet Union. In China and a few other parts of the world it still retains the aura of theology, as the debates this month on how to enshrine the thoughts of Deng illustrated.
En route, however, political Communism, as opposed to academic Marxism, has shed its original content to survive as an extraordinary mishmash, a late 20th-century potpourri marked by the loss of the very quality that distinguished Marx: the immanent potency, the singular danger, of ideas vividly expressed.
Marx urged the proletariat to wrest "all capital from the bourgeoisie, to centralize all instruments of production in the hands of the State, i.e., of the proletariat organized as the ruling class."
He then postulated that because political power "is merely the organized power of one class for oppressing another," and because the proletariat's victory would sweep away "the conditions for the existence of class antagonisms and of classes generally," the state would wither away and a new society emerge.
Of course, it did not happen. In countries from the Soviet Union to North Korea, wherever private property was abolished, state ownership rather than collective, public ownership took its place. Far from withering away, the state extended its tentacles, and the Communist Party became the vehicle not for the proletariat's victory but for the transference of power to what Milovan Djilas of Yugoslavia scathingly called "the new class" of apparatchiks. In China, it is those apparatchiks who still hold sway today, maneuvering with ingenuity along economic lines broadly backed by the United States that may prolong, rather than condemn, their political dictatorship in the post cold-war era.
In the West, by contrast, Communists find themselves battling to defend the very workers' rights -- social security, free medical care, unemployment benefits and pensions -- with which the bourgeoisie maneuvered to stave off Marx's predicted revolution.
"Communism has lost every sort of bearing," said Jonathan Eyal, the director of studies at London's Royal United Services Institute. "In China, it is essentially a mafia offering rising prosperity in exchange for political submission. In the West, it has given up all talk of seizing the commanding heights of the economy in exchange for a rearguard action against the sweeping advance of market forces."
 
Communist Contrasts

Indeed, the current campaigns of the people who still call themselves Communists in China and the West are, in many ways, diametrically opposed. In China, it is Realpolitik and the co-option of globalization to Chinese ends that drives the Communist Party. In France and Italy, the defense of what is sometimes called "the European model of civilization" against the pressures of globalization is of primary concern.
"We absolutely condemn the latest Chinese decisions," said Ramon Mantovani, an Italian Communist and member of Parliament. "They illustrate the way in which the Chinese have become one of the bulwarks of American-driven globalization, the very force that is threatening European workers."
Or, put another way, why should a multinational pay heavy social-security charges for Italian employees when it can set up in China and pay almost nothing?
Of course, globalization would have come as no surprise to Marx. Even in 1848, he noted that modern industry "has established the world-market." He was, as Robert Bowles, an economics professor at the University of Massachusetts noted, a "very acute observer of the workings of capitalism." But what Marx never predicted was that Communism would take hold in pre-industrial societies like Russia and China, rather than Germany or Britain, where the processes he described as preconditions for Communism were far advanced. By an odd twist, Communism became a prelude to capitalism rather than the force that overthrew it.
What practice, rather than theory, has shown since Marx's death is that Communism has a great deal of trouble reforming itself -- witness Dubcek, Khrushchev and Gorbachev. Thus if Mr. Jiang pulls off China's current lurch, it will amount to a first, if the result can still credibly be called Communism. Practice has also shown the irrepressible vitality of capitalism and its inherent cruelty; the forces that European Communists are fighting are thus very powerful ones.
The views of property and society held by the Communists of Paris and Beijing are quite distinct; but in both cases, the barricades are defensive ones.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Socialist unreality: Marxism lives, but Mao, sentry at the Wuhan ironworks in 1968, wouldn't recognize it. (Holmes-Lebel)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); HUBEI, CHINA (58%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (94%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); HUBEI, CHINA (58%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: COMMUNISM (THEORY AND PHILOSOPHY) POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (70%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER JIANG ZEMIN (57%); DENG XIAOPING (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1997



409 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
Medicine Remains as Much Art as Science

BYLINE: By PHILIP J. HILTS 

 BODY:
AMERICANS have become used to the idea that medical treatments should be carefully tested to assure that they work and are safe. So there was surprise the last two weeks as two widely accepted practices were upended by researchers after they had affected the lives of millions of people.
In one case, the popular diet drugs Redux and Pondimin were pulled off the market because of studies suggesting they may cause serious heart problems. The Food and Drug Administration had agonized for years before approving the drugs only for treating the obese. But soon doctors were writing more than 18 million prescriptions a year, many for people who just wanted to lose a few pounds. 
 In the second case, new research into Sudden Infant Death Syndrome discredited a 25-year-old theory that the syndrome runs in families and therefore can be guarded against. The theory -- based on several deaths in one family that turned out to be infanticide -- led doctors to miss other killings, while creating an industry that profited from parents' fears: baby monitors.
In both situations, follow-up researchers eventually found something that the original research did not and caught the trouble. But in fact, the rigorous testing of medical treatments is a recent innovation, coming largely in the last 40 years, and it is only in the area of drugs that extensive testing for new entries into the market are now routine.
The effort to test treatments has never caught up with the large number of procedures, drugs and devices that continue to be created at a fast pace in the health-conscious end of the century. The result, some medical experts estimate, is that half of all surgical operations and other medical procedures remain without strict scientific evidence of their efficacy and safety.
Assessing treatments is complicated, of course, because one that is effective for some people does not necessarily work for everybody all the time. What is clear, the experts say, is that more evidence is needed, and that people should realize that much of medicine is art rather than science.
"If one type of surgery ends up with a 1 percent death rate, and another ends up with a 10 percent death rate, shouldn't patients know that?" asked Dr. Robert Brook, head of the Rand Corporation's health studies program and a doctor at the University of California at Los Angeles Medical School. "We need to have this kind of data."
 
Proof Can Be in the Practice
 Over centuries, doctors have moved medicine forward by experiment and judgment, and in many cases elaborate proof is unnecessary. Removing an inflamed and infected appendix, for example, is simple, it works, and further proof is probably not needed, experts say. But which surgery is best to combat clogged arteries of the heart? Are coronary bypass operations the best approach for people of different ages and in different states of health? Only experience with large numbers of patients can answer such questions well.
Even the practice of rigorously studying new drugs has brought constant attacks on the Food and Drug Administration, which faces bills in the current Congress that would reduce the agency's already limited power to review drugs. In the case of Redux and Pondimin, for example, after approving them for use in narrow circumstances, the F.D.A. could do nothing about doctors prescribing those diet pills with another in a combination known as fen-phen (for fenfluramine, or Pondamin, and phentermine, an amphetamine-like drug) that some weight-loss clinics based their entire practices on.
The besieged F.D.A. is the same agency to which President Clinton wants to give the added burden of controlling tobacco should proposed regulations for the tobacco industry go into effect.
Scientific testing came first to drugs, then to medical devices, beginning in the 1950's. But there are far too many drugs and devices to have tested them all, so the Federal Government adopted the approach of testing the newest drugs and devices, but usually not those that were in use and seemed safe by anecdotal accounts. Among treatments for children, perhaps only 20 percent have good data behind them, Dr. Brook said.
In the past half-dozen years, however, a new field and a new Federal agency, the Agency for Health Care Policy and Research, have been established to try to extend rigorous testing from drugs and devices to medical procedures as well. With the coming of managed care, there was great hope that research on medical practices would increase greatly as researchers in the "outcomes movement," as it is called, began to compare different treatments among large numbers of patients to determine which were the most effective and which should be abandoned.
 
New Products Outpace Research
 "But the outlook is dismal," Dr. Brook said, because just as the new agency began work with a few tens of millions of dollars -- spare change by Washington standards -- a flood of new treatments, devices and drugs has kept the researchers behind.
"I think we are losing ground now," Dr. Brook said. "There is so much new biomedical technology that we are not even holding our own" in trying to study both new and old practices.
Dr. Paul D. Cleary of the Harvard Medical School, an expert in health quality issues, said: "On the plus side, we are ahead of where we were 20 years ago, and there has been an explosion of research. But it's true we may not be keeping pace with the new technologies."
Dr. Allan Brandt, an expert in the history of medicine, said there is a long way to go before the issues are sorted out. "Right now, there are health plans that are willing to pay for chiropractic, acupuncture and biofeedback, while others won't cover bone marrow transplants because they are experimental," he said. "And there is also the problem that, when we begin to decide what we think works in medicine, that may not be the same as what people want."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two diet drugs known together as phen-fen became the basis of entire weight-loss clinics even though the safety of the drugs in combination hadn't been studied. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (62%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; RESEARCH; TESTS AND TESTING; SURGERY AND SURGEONS; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) HEART DISEASE (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (88%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); DRUG EFFICACY (78%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); WEIGHT LOSS DRUGS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); DRUG SAFETY (76%); PARENTING (75%); SUDDEN INFANT DEATH SYNDROME (74%); INFANT MORTALITY (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); FAMILY (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (71%); DIETING (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); 

PERSON: HILTS, PHILIP J

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1997



410 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1541 words

HEADLINE: Pipe Dreams;
A Perilous New Contest for the Next Oil Prize

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER 

DATELINE: BAKU, Azerbaijan

 BODY:
IN donating $300,000 to Democratic Party organizations during the 1996 campaign, an ambitious businessman named Roger E. Tamraz sought access to President Clinton and other senior officials so he could ask them to support his project for a new oil pipeline from the Caspian Sea.
Last week Mr. Tamraz's efforts to buy access to the White House emerged as a key issue in Washington's campaign finance investigations. But in the drama now unfolding around the Caspian, Mr. Tamraz is a bit player and $300,000 a laughably small sum. The big players are nations including Russia, Iran and the United States, companies like Amoco, Pennzoil and Exxon and lobbyists with names like Kissinger, Haig, Baker and Brzezinski. They and every shark east of Suez have recognized that over the next decades, the greatest of games will be played around the Caspian. 
 Forget mutual funds, commodity futures and corporate mergers. Forget South African diamonds, European currencies and Thai stocks. The most concentrated mass of untapped wealth known to exist anywhere is in the oil and gas fields beneath the Caspian and the lands around it, regions at best dimly familiar to even the most assiduous newspaper readers.
The stakes are enormous; the value of the vast reserve, capable of fueling the industrial world for years to come, is measured in trillions of dollars, and foreign companies are expected to invest $50 billion or more merely to extract it.
The strategic implications of this bonanza hypnotize Western security planners as completely as the finances transfix oil executives. Once Caspian oil begins flowing, they dare to dream, they will never again have to kowtow to OPEC or maneuver to prevent oil-thirsty nations from dealing with Iran and Iraq.
 
Corporations and Clans
 With that relief, however, will undoubtedly come new troubles, for the competition involves not only governments and oil companies, but also warlords and clan chiefs who control or move through the remote regions where the pipelines needed to bring the treasure to market might be built.
Depending on where the lines are laid, power over the West's energy supply may fall to Chechen rebels, irredentist Armenians, government-connected cliques of Russian or Turkish gangsters, Iranian mullahs, Kurdish guerrillas or mercurial chieftains of the Avars, Lezgins, Swanetians and other Caucasian ethnic groups that nurse ancient grievances of which the outside world knows almost nothing.
"All the options are complicated, and none is trouble-free because they all either pass through politically unstable areas, involve high costs because of distance and terrain, or are politically risky because they offend the sensibilities of one or another of the regional powers," Rosemarie Forsythe, an American diplomat who specializes in international energy issues, wrote last year.
That there is oil beneath Azerbaijan has been known for centuries. The 13th-century explorer Marco Polo reported that springs here bubbled with black goo that was "good to burn." Between 1880 and 1910 the Rockefeller, Rothschild and Nobel families made fortunes here. In World War II Azerbaijani oil fueled the Red Army, and Baku, the Azerbaijani capital, was a great prize that Hitler tried but failed to capture.
Over the entire Soviet period, however, only modest amounts of oil were produced here as the Soviets preferred to develop fields in Siberia and other parts of Slavic Russia rather than invest in peripheral Muslim republics. But certainly they did not realize that beneath the Caspian is not a pool or lake of oil, but an ocean.
The proven reserves beneath Azerbaijan's portion of the Caspian total 17 billion barrels, the equivalent of the North Sea field. Geologists believe that at least 20 billion to 30 billion barrels more remain to be found. The other oil-rich corner of the Caspian belongs to Kazakhstan, with proven reserves of 10 billion barrels and perhaps three times that not yet found.
Some specialists in Baku believe these figures may be low. Estimates of total reserves in the Caspian and the lands around it run up to 200 billion barrels, enough to meet the entire energy needs of the United States for 30 years or more.
After declaring independence from the crumbling Soviet Union in 1991, Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan fell into turmoil from which they are now beginning to emerge. Foreign oil companies began large-scale investment in the region in September 1994, when the Azerbaijani state oil company signed what was called the "contract of the century," a $7.4 billion agreement with a consortium of 10 companies from the United States, Britain, Norway, Russia, Turkey and Saudi Arabia.
Four more contracts have since been signed, with French, Italian, Japanese and Iranian companies among the new arrivals. Mobil paid $1.1 billion for a stake in Kazakhstan's biggest oil field, followed quickly by Russia's state-owned oil conglomerate; Malaysian and Chinese interests are negotiating for the second-largest field.
In neighboring Turkmenistan, American and British companies have bought permission to search for oil in an 8,000-square-mile tract along the Caspian coast.
The first consortium, the Azerbaijan International Operating Company, is already drilling in the Caspian and expects to begin producing oil before the end of this year. The main competition now is over pipeline routes, and the outcome will have far-reaching political as well as economic effects. Whoever controls the route or routes will be able to count on steady income from transit fees and to exert pressure on both producing and consuming countries.
"If you can't get the oil out, it's no good to anyone," an American oil analyst in Baku said. "But every way of getting it out presents its own set of problems."
The first flow of oil is to be sent through an existing pipeline that runs north from Baku through Chechnya to the Russian port of Novorossisk on the Black Sea. Russian leaders would like to expand this line so it can be used for the far larger flows to come, but to do so they must cooperate with Chechnya's secessionist rebels.
Russian and Chechen leaders finally reached an accord this month on splitting the transit fees, but reflecting their mistrust, the Russians immediately announced that they want to build a new alternative route through North Ossetia, a region that is marginally more stable politically.
The only existing alternative pipeline does not run through Russia at all, but westward from Baku to the Black Sea port of Supsa in Georgia. It passes through potentially explosive regions of Georgia, but Georgian officials say they can guarantee its security.
 
Tanker Traffic
 Once the oil reaches Supsa, however, what should be done with it? One option is to ship it in tankers across the Black Sea, through the Bosporus into the Mediterranean. But Turkish officials strenuously object to such heavy tanker traffic because of the environmental risks.
The Turks propose to build a 650-mile pipeline from Supsa across eastern Turkey to their port of Ceyhan on the Mediterranean. But some oil executives worry about the time and expense of building such a pipeline, and they cannot ignore the risk that Kurdish guerrillas in eastern Turkey might try to attack it.
Another possibility would be to ship or pipe oil from Supsa across the Black Sea to Bulgaria or Romania, sending it by pipeline from there to a Greek port. Azerbaijan's president, Heydar Aliyev, has even suggested that he would consider a pipeline through Armenia if the two countries can settle their dispute over the occupied Nagorno-Karabakh region.
When oil planners look at maps, however, they cast their eyes on a tantalizing alternative: simply tie Baku to the existing pipeline network in neighboring Iran and send the oil south to the Persian Gulf.
This proven route leads to ports already equipped for shipping oil and avoids the baffling range of political, ethnic, national and religious conflicts bubbling across the Caucasus. But the United States, which rejects virtually all cooperation with Iran, strongly opposes it. Some influential figures in Washington are quietly suggesting that it may be time to reappraise policy toward Iran, particularly after the election there in May of a relatively moderate president, but they have not had any visible success.
An even more daring possibility is to run a pipeline from Turkmenistan south to the open sea through Afghanistan, where the ruthlessly fundamentalist and anti-Western Taliban movement is in control. At least one American company, Unocal, has reportedly held pipeline talks with Taliban officials.
Sitting at the heart of this conundrum is the president of the Azerbaijani state oil monopoly, Natik Aliyev. From his window in a stately old Baku office building, Mr. Aliyev, no relation to the president of his country, can gaze out on the Caspian and ruminate on the black gold beneath it.
"There are so many interlocking interests in this region, not to mention among outside powers and the oil companies themselves," Mr. Aliyev mused. "Our job is to balance them and still protect our own interests. Believe me, we don't underestimate the importance or complexity of it all."

GRAPHIC: Photo: An oil rush is on in remote Azerbaijan, where the Soviet Union left immense fields largely undeveloped in favor of more secure areas in Siberia. Rigs from the turn of the century still stand in Baku, Azerbaijan's capital. (Staton R. Winter for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Map of area surrounding Azerbaijan showing existing pipeline and potential oil tranpsort routes. (pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: AZERBAIJAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); ARMENIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); IRAQ (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); 

STATE: CASPIAN SEA (93%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN SECURITY SYSTEMS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CASPIAN SEA; AZERBAIJAN; KAZAKHSTAN; AZERBAIJAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); ARMENIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); IRAQ (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); CASPIAN SEA (93%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; GAS (FUEL); OFFSHORE EXPLORATION AND INSTALLATIONS; PIPELINES US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (85%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (77%); OIL EXPLORATION (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); FUTURES (77%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (77%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (77%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (77%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CURRENCIES (73%); CARTELS (69%); ETHNIC GROUPS (68%); MERGERS (68%); MUTUAL FUNDS (68%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (60%); ETHNICITY (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: KINZER, STEPHEN BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1997



411 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 3416 words

HEADLINE: EARNING IT;
Some Second Thoughts On Options

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT 

 BODY:
WHAT could possibly be wrong with stock options?
Considering the number of companies that have embraced them as a way to reward not only top executives but also lower-level workers, stock options seem to be practically a religion in some parts of corporate America. They are widely promoted for their many virtues: They align the interests of shareholders and employees, they can help attract and retain scarce talent and they have turbocharged the remarkable economic engine of Silicon Valley. Options are even spreading to countries like Japan and Germany that once outlawed or discouraged their use. 
 "There is a rightness to them," Andrew S. Grove, chairman of the Intel Corporation, said in a recent interview.
But not everyone is nodding in agreement. Compensation experts are building a body of research suggesting that stock options may have some unintended side effects. And there is growing concern among shareholders about the ballooning liability these options represent.
"Investors are scrutinizing stock options like never before," said Richard H. Wagner, president of Strategic Compensation Research Associates in New York, a consulting firm that helps companies design stock-plan proposals. "They are assessing whether they are a good investment or a waste of corporate assets."
Even in Silicon Valley in Northern California, where stock options have become standard in most compensation packages, some people are having second thoughts about whether stock options deserve their great reputation.
To the degree that there is a backlash against options, it is a surprisingly swift one, considering that the spread of incentive pay is precisely what many activist shareholders and experts in corporate governance called for in the 1980's and early 90's. In response to broad criticism that top executives were paid like bureaucrats, companies started using stock options to put much of their pay at risk.
Stock options -- which are, in their most basic form, a promise made by a company to offer a number of its shares at a set price, for a fixed period -- have spread quickly because they let companies have their cake, eat it too, and get a second helping. Corporations, for example, do not have to record stock options as a compensation expense on the set of books they show shareholders, and therefore there is no charge to earnings. But when employees cash in their options, the cost to the company is treated as an expense and corporations get a tax deduction.
"It may appear to be free money," said P. Jane Saly, professor of accounting at the University of Minnesota. "But clearly, there is a cost to shareholders."
But with the remarkable climb of the stock market in recent years, and boards issuing mega-grants of a million or more options to top executives, the practice has led to rich, and widely publicized, pay packages for top executives. That in turn has led many investors to question whether executives deserve such a hefty tip for their companies' performance.
Nevertheless, stock options are growing as a percentage of shares outstanding at companies. At the nation's largest 200 companies, options represented 11.8 percent of the shares last year, compared with 6.9 percent in 1989, according to Pearl Meyer & Partners, an executive compensation consulting firm. At 23 of those companies, including Morgan Stanley, Travelers, Warner-Lambert and Microsoft, more than 20 percent of all shares were set aside for stock-related incentives.
The investment firm Sanford C. Bernstein & Company has estimated that the total value of shares set aside for options at all public companies has risen to about $600 billion from about $60 billion in 1985.
But shareholders are saying, in greater numbers, that enough is enough.
Data compiled by Strategic Compensation Research show that the percentage of "no" votes is rising against management proposals to issue more stock options. Of 1,072 companies requesting option authority over the last year, roughly a quarter of them received "no" votes totaling more than 20 percent of outstanding shares. At 35 companies, the "no" votes represented more than 40 percent of the shares outstanding. At several companies, including Electroglas Inc. and Omni Multimedia Group, proposals for stock-option plans were voted down.
THOSE numbers also understate the backlash against stock options, said Mr. Wagner of Strategic Compensation Research. Many companies, sensing that they are likely to suffer an embarrassing defeat, will pull back a stock-plan proposal before putting it to a vote. Five years ago, any opposition was rare, he said.
In another measure of shareholder discontent, the Investor Responsibility Research Center said that the average proportion of stockholders voting against stock-option plans climbed to 19 percent in 1996 from 3.5 percent in 1988, a more than fivefold increase.
As much as stock options appear to be free when they are issued, the cost is no longer so well-hidden. It is now commonplace for companies to report that they must spend money to buy back shares to offset dilution from stock options -- meaning that with more shares outstanding, earnings per share automatically dwindle. The Microsoft Corporation, for example, said in July that it repurchased 37 million shares for $3.1 billion in its most recent fiscal year. The average price of the repurchased stock was $84, compared with an average exercise price of $31 for all outstanding options. In the past, when a company announced a share-repurchase program, its stock price typically jumped. But these days, buybacks are less likely to get such a positive reaction.
"Companies have been literally buying shares at all-time highs to pay for the the options they have issued," said Patrick S. McGurn, director of corporate programs for Institutional Shareholder Services.
Such programs are not only transferring large sums of wealth from shareholders to insiders, said Nell Minow, a principal at Lens Inc., an investment management firm. They are also shifting the voting power that goes with those shares to insiders, giving them greater ability to drown out dissident voices in proxy votes.
"These very extensive stock-option programs are hostile takeovers from the inside," she said.
There are also growing questions about precisely what shareholders are getting for their money when companies grant stock options to top executives and employees.
Some complaints are familiar, including the observation that stock options reward mediocre performance in a bull market, and that employees who are given stock options enjoy far less risk if the stock falls in price than do outside investors, who pay for their shares.
BUT many side effects of stock-option plans are less well-known.
At the annual meeting in Boston last month of the Academy of Management, for example, William Gerard Sanders, a professor of strategic management at Brigham Young University, said he found statistical evidence that big stock-option packages for top executives tended to increase the frequency of acquisitions and divestitures.
This "symbolic churning," as Mr. Sanders called it, is a means to signal that the company is making "positive, pro-active change" that companies hope will be reflected in a jump in their underperforming stock. After all, because there is plenty to gain and little to lose with stock options, a chief executive can act like a slugger ahead on the count, swinging for the fences.
In his study of 250 large United States companies from 1991 to 1995, Mr. Sanders also found that at companies where top executives already owned significant blocks of stock, there were comparatively few acquisitions and divestitures.
"When top executives get options, the evidence suggests they start experimenting," Mr. Sanders said. "We know that most of the time when they churn, they do not create value. But if the options gain considerable value from an escalating stock price, then they churn less."
At the same meeting in Boston, two management professors -- Edward J. Zajac of Northwestern University and James D. Westphal of the University of Texas at Austin -- said they found that a narrow focus on a single indicator of performance, like the stock price, tended to result in tunnel vision that sacrificed other measures of performance, like sales, net earnings, return on assets or return on equity.
The timing of option awards to executives is also intriguing, according to a report by David Yermack, a professor of finance at New York University, in the June issue of the Journal of Finance. In a survey of 620 option awards among Fortune 500 companies from 1992 to 1994, he found a pattern of chief executives' receiving option awards shortly before favorable corporate news was announced.
For example, Mr. Yermack cites as one example the fact that K. Grahame Walker, chief executive of the Dexter Corporation, a maker of specialty coatings and adhesives in Windsor Locks, Conn., was awarded options on April 24, 1992. Over the next three months, the company announced that its quarterly earnings had more than doubled and that it planned to sell a division.. A spokeswoman for Dexter said that the timing of Mr. Walker's option award was dictated by its annual meeting.
Perhaps the most trenchant criticism of most stock-option plans has come from one of corporate America's elite. In a speech last year to Wall Street analysts, Robert B. Hoffman, chief financial officer of the Monsanto Company, said that conventional options "tend to reward attendance, not performance."
At the time, Monsanto had surpassed its goal of a 20 percent return on equity, the threshold at which its previous options package took effect. Executives wanted to set a new, more challenging target.
At the meeting, Mr. Hoffman announced a new, two-pronged incentive program that he said would reward shareholders before it rewarded top executives. One was for four sets of options that would become valuable only when the company's stock surpassed price targets of $150, $175, $200 and $225. Monsanto's stock is now trading at $38.75, or the equivalent of $193.75 before a five-for-one split last year.
The second aspect of Monsanto's incentive package is that top executives are required to buy stock in the company with money lent them by the company. If they do not reach certain targets, like performing better than the 75th percentile of the Standard & Poor's industrials through the year 2000, the executives will have to pay the company back.
"Our management will be subject to both the upward opportunities and the downward risks inherent in stock ownership," said Robert B. Shapiro, chairman and chief executive of Monsanto.
ALTHOUGH companies like Transamerica and Bank of America have also adopted option packages that require some kind of premium performance, such incentives are not commonplace. Frederick W. Cook & Company, a compensation consulting firm, said in a report last year that 14 percent of the country's largest 250 companies tied options to specific performance criteria, up from 6 percent in 1993.
Why don't more companies have programs like Monsanto's? Part of the answer may be that companies in different industries have varying opportunities for growth. But Charles M. Elson, a professor at the Stetson College of Law in St. Petersburg, Fla., offered a simpler explanation.
"It's a board dominated by the manager," he said. "Overcompensation is basically the fault of passive boards that agree to salary packages on demand, without spirited negotiations."
Many companies are willing to move the threshold at which stock options can be exercised, but typically they engage in the heads-I-win, tails-I-still-win strategy of repricing stock options downward, not upward, thereby making it easier to reach a point where the options become valuable. While such generosity to executives of companies with poorly performing stock is not so common in the current bull market, the practice could well return in a bear market.
"The repricing of underwater options has the perverse effect of rewarding poor stock performance," said Kurt Schacht, general counsel of the State of Wisconsin Investment Board.
STOCK-OPTION programs for lower-level employees have, in general, come under less criticism. Although there is scant evidence suggesting that such programs help improve corporate performance, more companies are adopting them, including the Chase Manhattan Corporation and DuPont.
The chairman and directors of the Coram Healthcare Corporation even took the unusual step last year of returning stock options representing about 10 percent of the company's shares and, trying to accelerate a turnaround of the company, used them instead as an incentive for employees. (The company's stock has remained flat since the program was announced.)
For all its criticisms of conventional stock options, Monsanto said last year that it would give them to its 27,000 lower-level employees to foster a sense of ownership. "Intuitively, it makes sense," A. Nicholas Filippello, the company's chief economist, said in a recent interview.
While stock options may make workers feel more like owners, that feeling may not be lasting. When options are "in the money" after the exercise date -- trading above the price at which they were issued -- workers tend to cash them in fairly quickly, according to a study published last year of 50,000 employees at eight corporations.
Two professors, Steven Huddart of Duke University and Mark Lang of the University of North Carolina, found that the employees typically exercised their options years before the expiration date, effectively surrendering about half their potential long-term value.
Such option plans may also backfire on a company in a bear market.
"It works really well as long as the stock price is going up," said Professor Saly of the University of Minnesota. "But if a major part of an employee's compensation is based on the stock price, and you take someone who is making $40,000 and make $10,000 disappear, what happens to employee morale?"
Second thoughts on stock options tend to encounter the strongest head winds in Silicon Valley, a place where options have been hailed as a key to the area's booming economy, a way to attract talent to ideas while also keeping salaries low in a company's fragile start-up phase. Options, touted as a refreshingly egalitarian approach to compensating workers, have created enough young millionaires driving expensive cars for a respectable traffic jam, even by California standards.
BY all accounts, workers in Silicon Valley have grown quite sophisticated about stock options. Young, talented engineers who years ago were surprised to learn that they received something called stock options now hold out until their demands for sizable options packages are met.
In Silicon Valley, options have even become a kind of currency to pay for outside help. A company called Talentwave in Larkspur, Calif., often takes options as payment when it helps start-ups find top executives.
"If I'm the person who has some of the responsibility for assembling the technical team, why can't I price myself in the same way?" said Jim Trattner, president of Talentwave.
One of Talentwave's principals, Emily Nelson, does management consulting and headhunting work for a number of fledgling technology firms, and has decided to take most of her pay (a percentage of which goes to Talentwave) in the form of stock options, rather than cash.
At first, she said, it was a way to lower her fees without feeling as if she had lowered her fees. But she now has about 60,000 options and expects to get another 40,000 in about three months. Most of the companies she works with have not yet gone public.
"I have a great portfolio, but my bank account is empty," said Ms. Nelson, who adds that she regularly works 100-hour weeks. "But I decided that this is how I'm going to make it."
Her vision of making it includes doing business consulting from a home on the Oregon coast while having more time to play with her toys. (She's serious about the toy part -- her rare time off is spent at Toys "R" Us, she said.)
"Next year, I may be a millionaire, but it will depend on the market," Ms. Nelson added. "People consider me revolutionary or foolish."
In a sense, though, Ms. Nelson is pursuing a more diversified and less risky strategy than many others in Silicon Valley, who job-hop from one start-up to another in the hope of striking it rich.
And although the number of start-up companies continues to grow in Silicon Valley, the likelihood of joining another Apple or Microsoft in its infancy is not getting better. If companies develop a promising technology, they are often quickly bought out by larger competitors, thereby accelerating option packages for top executives of the smaller concern, but not necessarily the options held by lower-level employees. Sometimes young companies are not bought out at all, and instead are simply overtaken by a competitor with more marketing heft. That is what happened to a Seattle company called Intermind, which developed technology that automatically sends customized information over the Internet to a computer user. But it was soon eclipsed by similar offerings from Microsoft and Netscape. Intermind has shrunk considerably from its peak of about 80 employees, but company officials say it will soon make an important announcement about its next move.
Some experienced hands in the valley have seen so many start-ups sputter that they have largely sworn off stock options.
After Roger L. Thornton went to work for Cypress Semiconductor 10 years ago at age 23, he found himself sitting on almost $100,000 in proceeds from stock options. An early convert to options, he then spent many years accumulating options from a number of fledgling firms that ultimately proved worthless.
Now a consultant at 33, he typically takes his pay the old-fashioned way. He and the three other partners in his firm set aside 20 percent of their revenues each year for investing, typically in more mature technology companies that they know well.
"As an investor, you can cover your odds on a lot of bets," said Mr. Thornton, whose firm is Medialane, in Cupertino, Calif. "But when you are an employee, you can only make that bet so many times in your career."
"There's this perception that you come to Silicon Valley and get rich quick. It makes good folklore, but the fact of the matter is that most people get rich very slowly," he added. "By working hard, I can guarantee that it will happen if you do it that way."
While he recognizes that stock options have helped make Silicon Valley so successful, he also said that some companies abuse them as a way to underpay people in the face of long odds that the options will pay off.
"I'd like to say that while people are getting more sophisticated about stock options, they can also be used to play on an individual's greed," he said.
What is clear, though, is that employees and executives, particularly talented ones who are in demand, want more options, and companies are giving them as signing bonuses and using them as tools to retain the people they want to keep.
And what if the stock market flattens out for a long period? The widespread use of options has raised at many companies an expectation, even a sense of entitlement, that the options will always pay off.
As it is, options have led to a number of legal spats. A former executive with the Parametric Technology Corporation recently won $1.6 million after a Los Angeles jury decided that his company dismissed him mainly because he would soon be eligible to cash in valuable options. Many companies also insist on so-called bad-boy clauses in their options packages for senior executives, giving them the right to demand that departing executives give up their options, or repay recent profits from exercising them, if they do something considered harmful to their former employer.
In a flat stock market, companies may feel pressure to reprice options or issue more of them to satisfy demands of employees who have come to expect a payoff. Either way, said Mr. Wagner of Strategic Compensation Research, companies are going to find that shareholders are likely to grow increasingly intolerant of overly generous stock-option grants.
"Many companies are at their limits already," Mr. Wagner said. "What are they going to do for an encore?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Emily Nelson, a consultant to high-tech start-ups, has amassed about 60,000 options in lieu of fees. Roger L. Thornton has received so many worthless options over the years that he now prefers to be paid in cash. (Photographs by Jenny Thomas for The New York Times)(pg. 12)
 
Charts: "Beginning Of a Backlash?"
For years, shareholders rarely voted against management. But of 1,072 stock-option proposals before stockholders from July 1, 1996, to May 31, 1997, a total of 256 drew a "no"vote from more than a fifth of those voting. (Source: SCRA Database)
 
"A Tough Sell" lists companies at which proposed stock-option plans received the most shareholder "no" votes or abstentions in 1996, and the potential dilution of their stocks under the plans. (Source: Investor Responsibility Research Center)(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (57%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STRATEGIC COMPENSATION RESEARCH INTEL CORP (83%); INVESTOR RESPONSIBILITY RESEARCH CENTER (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: STRATEGIC COMPENSATION RESEARCH INVESTOR RESPONSIBILITY RESEARCH CENTER (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (57%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING EXECUTIVES (90%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); FUTURES (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); BONDS (67%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (63%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, ADAM

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1997



412 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: Word for Word/The National Smokers Alliance;
Got a Light? How About The Flame of Freedom?

BYLINE: By TOM KUNTZ 

 BODY:
WITH the people's blood up over smoking, tobacco advocates seem to comment in public only when they really have to -- like last week when the industry balked at President Clinton's tougher new terms for a liability settlement. Maybe tobacco executives figure that after all those damaging Congressional hearings, it doesn't help to speak up if you leave many people with the impression that your nose just might begin to grow very long.
But of course defenders of smoking aren't taking things lying down. One case in point is the National Smokers Alliance, an organization claiming 3 million members that gets much of its financial support from tobacco companies. In newsletters meant to rally the puffing faithful, the Alexandria, Va.-based alliance puts forth a feisty, pointed defense of what it sees as every adult American's right to freely turn his or her own lungs into a couple of blowtorched raisins. 
 Well, it doesn't use those words exactly. Here are excerpts from the newsletters, The NSA Voice and its newer, more activist-minded sister publication, The Resistance. TOM KUNTZ
In its inaugural issue four months ago, The Resistance framed its cause in stark yet stirring historical terms:
In France, in the darkest days of World War II, the flame of freedom was kept burning by the Resistance.
It has happened in many other countries, in many other circumstances and under many other names, but the Resistance has always been the last line of defense against those who would impose their will on a minority.
The Resistance is more an idea than a movement. The Resistance is inevitably composed of individuals who have in common the commitment to the tenet of preserving personal freedom. . . .
As the war on smokers escalates to fever pitch, the need for resistance has never been greater.
And in its next issue, The Resistance writes approvingly of those who flout smoking bans:
Does Resistance work? Just ask the people of Toronto who successfully defeated one of the most severe smoking laws in North America.
"Bad laws should not be obeyed," advised Toronto Star columnist Rosie Dimanno of the bylaw that banned smoking in almost all restaurants and bars citywide as of March 3 of this year. "Rebel, revolt, resist."
And that's just what the citizens of this Canadian city did.
Faced with revenue losses of up to 30 percent, restaurant owners openly defied the law. Some refused to enforce the ban even in the face of hefty fines that ranged from $205 to $5,000. . . .
"I've talked to a lot of restaurateurs in town . . . and nobody's respecting it (the bylaw)," said the owner of a popular restaurant. "I've visited seven of my friends in their restaurants and everybody smokes. There's ashtrays everywhere. Nobody cares."
The smokers' alliance continually attacks scientific findings on hazards of second-hand smoke, and it regularly chronicles smoking restrictions across the land. From the November/December issue of the NSA Voice:
Chaos is the only word to describe what is happening in Mesa, Ariz.
On July 1, 1996, an ordinance (passed by voters earlier in the year) went into effect banning smoking in virtually every public place in this city of 330,000. . . .
Business owners felt the economic blow immediately. Restaurant and bar owners are losing customers to nearby communities where smoking is still allowed, and one restaurateur cited the ban as the reason he went out of business. A convention has changed its meeting site from Mesa; the Loyal Order of Moose said their bingo revenues dropped 60 percent, impacting the club's ability to buy Christmas presents for underprivileged children.
In the NSA Voice of May 1996, the alliance in effect calls single-minded critics of smoking in movies a bunch of hypocrites:
Quentin Tarantino's "Pulp Fiction" confronts the moviegoer with a brutal rape scene, a drug overdose capped off by the plunging of a needle into the heart of the drug user, an exploding head, several other brutal murders -- including the dispatch of two characters by samurai sword -- heroin use and several sexually explicit situations and references. So what most disturbs the American Lung Association about the film? You guessed it -- cigarette smoking.
Worse yet, who did the association's chapters in Los Angeles send to monitor the use of tobacco in this and 132 other Hollywood movies? Why, 100 teen-agers. . . .
Among the movies receiving a "thumbs up" for its absence of tobacco was "Braveheart." Ignored by the association in giving its approval, however, was the fact that the movie was set in the late 1200's and early 1300's -- some 300 years before tobacco was introduced to Europeans by Sir Walter Raleigh.
In discount promotions, the alliance suggests that fresh air is something members can do without:
Now, an alternative to smoke-free shopping malls. You can avoid these crowded places and, instead, shop in the comfort of your own home through some of the nation's most prominent catalog companies -- and save 10 percent on your entire purchase!
In another promotion, it trumpets the potential political clout of smokers:
"More Americans Smoke Than Voted for Clinton." That is the message of a new bumper sticker designed by the National Smokers Alliance to remind President Clinton -- and all politicians -- of the powerful economic and political force that this nation's 50 million smokers represent.
But potential is not reality. Guilt-ridden smokers who don't stick up for their rights are chided in an article by Bruce Herschensohn, a member of the advisory board of the smokers' alliance. It appeared in the NSA Voice of May/June:
Frequently in interviews with smokers on television and radio and in the press, the smoker doesn't talk about liberty and personal choice at all but, rather, the smoker gives ammunition to the other side. Just imagine what would have happened if the battles of other minorities were fought as this one is being fought:
"I'm a black man -- but I wish I wasn't."
"I'm a Jew, and I practice Judaism -- but I'm trying to stop." . . .
Too many people who enjoy smoking are bringing about their own restrictions by their sheepishness and their inability to express the real issues that are at risk in the United States. . . .
Pleasures are a marvelous part of life, and it's true that all pleasures bring about their own risks: Former President Bush enjoys jumping out of airplanes. Not me. But if that gives him pleasure, and he's old enough to have evaluated the risks involved -- good for him. . . . When I was in high school, a girlfriend of mine wanted to ski, and she did exactly that. She went to the slopes and came home with a lifelong disability. She had one half-hour of pleasure in Aspen, while in contrast to that, Deng Xiaoping of China had over 70 years of smoking which he enjoyed. He died this year at the age of 93.
Still, the alliance finds a silver lining in the ostracism of smokers. From the NSA Voice of March/April:
They used to be smoke-break buddies; now they're husband and wife.
That's the story of John and Betty Kaufman of Hermitage, Tenn., who met, fell in love and, a year later, were married on Dec. 27, 1996. Not an unusual story, except for the circumstances under which they met, while taking a smoking break at work.
"We initially met on a smoke break, and through that meeting it gave us the chance to get to know each other," said John. "We started planning our smoke breaks together, and one thing led to another. . . ."
Like too many workplaces nationwide, smoking is prohibited inside at the State of Tennessee's Department of Mental Health, where John and Betty work. John, a quality director, and Betty, a secretary, work in separate divisions. . . . "Our contact in the office is slim to none," said John. "Chances are, without the smoke breaks, we never would have met."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David Suter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (72%); FRANCE (69%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (76%); ONTARIO, CANADA (72%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (72%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SMOKERS ALLIANCE

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SMOKERS ALLIANCE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (72%); FRANCE (69%); VIRGINIA, USA (76%); ONTARIO, CANADA (72%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (72%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO; NEWSLETTERS SMOKING (91%); SMOKING BANS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (78%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WRITERS (69%); FINES & PENALTIES (69%); WORLD WAR II (65%); 

PERSON: KUNTZ, TOM BILL CLINTON (73%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (73%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1997



413 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 2; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: Here's Food for Thought;
Cutting Waste Can Be a Waste

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL 

 BODY:
YOU'VE probably always suspected that Vice President Al Gore was a charter member of the Clean Plate Club -- that when his mom warned that every lima bean ending up in the garbage was a lima bean less for the starving children of Africa or Appalachia, little Al took it to heart. Now there's proof.
A recent Department of Agriculture study estimated that 96 billion of the 356 billion pounds of food available for human consumption in America were lost somewhere between farmers' fields and household disposals. In response, Mr. Gore and Secretary of Agriculture Dan Glickman last week sponsored a "national summit on gleaning and food recovery" in Washington, with the goal of squeezing enough waste out of the distribution system to feed an extra 450,000 hungry Americans.
 
Skeptics
 
 So what's wrong with that? After all, only the Grinch who stole Christmas could object to efforts to recover the discarded bounty of the harvest. Check that: along with the Grinch, many economists view "waste not, want not" campaigns of any sort with jaundiced eye.
Avoiding waste has long been a middle-class reflex -- a reaction, perhaps, to the conspicuous consumption and indolence of the leisure class, whose cultural dominance was eclipsed in the Industrial Revolution. And it was certainly reinforced by the Great Depression. But in an era of abundance, one in which time and labor are more precious than the mass-produced goods of modern farms and factories, economists argue that prices should rule.
From this perspective the decision to wrap and store the dinner leftovers -- or to recycle the Sunday newspaper -- should depend on whether there is a better way to spend the time and effort. "There's an optimal level of food 'waste,' " insists Robert Frank of Cornell University, "just as there is an optimal level of dust in your house."
 
Cheap Eats
 Indeed, Robert Hahn of the American Enterprise Institute suggests that the Vice President has it exactly wrong -- that waste is a sign of societal success rather than failure. "If ever there was a non-issue this is it," he argued. "The primary reason so much gets tossed is that America has the cheapest food in the world."
According to the Department of Agriculture, a bit of food is lost when it is processed or shipped, a bit more when retailers discard spoiled or out-of-date perishables. The lion's share, though, is deep-sixed by restaurants, commercial food services and families. In 1995, according to the department's estimates based on its surveys, 11.3 billion pounds of fruit, 15.9 billion pounds of veggies, 8.2 billion pounds of meat, poultry and fish and 17.4 billion pounds of fluid milk never made it from refrigerator (or plate) to mouth. Enough flour, sugar and margarine end up in landfills to supply the nation's youth with Twinkies.
 
Clean Plate Club
 According to the Department, consumers too often needlessly and unwisely discard safe, tasty perishables. They fail to finish oversize portions in restaurants. They are prone to losing half-used containers in the recesses of their cupboards and refrigerators.
One answer, the Department primly suggests, is education: "Improved meal planning and purchasing skills can reduce the discard of food items."
Another, directed at restaurants, is better handling in mass preparation: "Eggs taken out of their shells by processing machines may mean lower rates of processing loss."
Yet another is charity. The Washington summit highlighted the efforts of organizations like FoodChain, Foodservice and Second Harvest, which collect leftovers from restaurants and food services to feed the poor (much as City Harvest does in New York).
 
Being Good Isn't Bad
 For his part, Mr. Frank wonders whether people who make $30 an hour at the office should spend their Saturdays whipping up brownies for the P.T.A. or pasting stamps in booklets to trade for a classroom computer. "I've always hated the bake-sale concept -- it's so much easier to give money."
He and other dismal scientists do concede the social value of good works -- particularly when the beneficiaries include those doing the good works. "In our walled communities, it's too easy to lose sight of the fact that some people are hungry," said Mr. Frank. Besides, he notes, charities are better at cutting through the red tape of legal liability and food-inspection systems -- factors that inhibit for-profit organizations from funneling leftovers to the hungry.
But economists remain skeptical about relying on the gospel of thrift rather than on markets to induce consumers to conserve. "When coffee prices shot up in 1955, purchases of coffee went down by half -- but consumption only fell by a quarter," said Thomas Schelling, an economist at the University of Maryland's School of Public Policy. Apparently people wasted less: they went to the trouble of brewing smaller pots more frequently when it became worth their time.
Lester Lave at Carnegie-Mellon University presses a parallel point: consumers determine how companies use resources. "McDonald's wastes potatoes every day so we can have our french fries fresh, hot and fast," he says, and most diners wouldn't have it any other way.
The one area where economists and the vanguard of the food bureaucracy seem to be in accord is in asking consumers to count the cost of disposal in their calculations of what to consume or recycle, and what to toss. Some 2,000 municipalities now charge for waste collection by the bag rather than by flat monthly fees, the Department of Agriculture notes with approval. And the result has been a cut in household solid waste (some of it food) ranging from 25 to 45 percent.
From the economists' perspective, the most insidious misunderstanding is the idea that eliminating waste is a key to ending poverty -- that Al Gore's discarded lima beans (or socks) could have fed the famished or clothed the naked. Indeed, many see it as a cop-out, a way to transform clear societal obligations into murky individual responsibilities.
"If you want to feed the poor, give them food stamps," Mr. Hahn said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Is wasting food a bad thing? Sure, but economically it sometimes makes sense. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; RESTAURANTS FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); STARVATION (77%); FOOD CHARITIES (77%); FAMILY (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (76%); RESTAURANTS (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (75%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (71%); POULTRY (71%); RETAILERS (69%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); GLICKMAN, DAN (SEC) AL GORE (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1997



414 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: MARKET TIMING

 BODY:

MONDAY
The Agriculture Department reports on the progress of seven crops.
 
TUESDAY
Mitsubishi Bank/Schroder Wertheim releases its weekly retail sales report.
LJR Redbook Research releases its weekly retail sales survey. 
WEDNESDAY
The Mortgage Bankers Association of America releases its weekly report on mortgage applications.
The Energy Department releases its weekly report on petroleum stocks, production, imports and refinery utilization.
 
THURSDAY
The Commerce Department reports on durable goods orders for August.
The Labor Department reports on initial weekly claims for unemployment insurance.
The National Association of Realtors reports on home resales for August.
 
FRIDAY
The Commerce Department reports its final estimate of economic growth for the second quarter.
The University of Michigan releases its monthly index of consumer sentiment.
The Federal Reserve Board releases its weekly report on commercial and industrial loans at commercial banks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI LTD (58%); MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS RETAIL SALES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (87%); FACTORY ORDERS (87%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (87%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (87%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); EXISTING HOME SALES (71%); DURABLE GOODS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1997



415 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: DIARY

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN

 BODY:

TOBACCO
Rejecting a Settlement
Remember the historic $368.5 billion tobacco settlement proposed in June? Never mind. President Clinton decisively rejected the deal negotiated by state officials and cigarette company lawyers, contending that it did not go far enough to discourage smoking by minors or to help the nation's 45 million smokers end their nicotine addiction. Mr. Clinton demanded tough penalties on cigarette makers if smoking by teen-agers did not decline sharply over the next decade, and he said he would not accept any dilution in the authority of the Food and Drug Administration to regulate nicotine as a dangerous drug. Cigarette makers reacted bitterly. The President's plan could ultimately double the industry's cost of settling the lawsuits against it, to as much as $700 billion over 25 years. The debate now moves to Capitol Hill, where the industry's power and deep pockets will be tested as never before. 

THE ECONOMY
Robust Growth, Tame Inflation
The economy continues to grow at a robust pace with low inflation, economic data show. Consumer prices edged up only two-tenths of a percent in August -- less than the three-tenths of a percent forecast by economists -- while factories increased output at seven-tenths of a percent, the fastest rate in nine months. And if this seems idyllic, pity the economists. With all going so well, it's tough for them to get a job, members said at the annual meeting of the National Association for Business Economics in New Orleans. But there may be rays of hope for practitioners of the dismal science. Housing construction unexpectedly dropped 4.8 percent in August. And the nation's trade gap, driven in part by a mounting deficit with Japan, widened sharply in July, to $10.34 billion, from $8.29 billion in June.
 
MARKETS
The Return of the Bulls
Traders reacted enthusiastically to the buoyant economic reports, sending the Dow Jones industrial average up 170.30, to 7,917.27 last week and the Nasdaq composite up 31.04, to 1,680.37. But when companies warned of problems, the market was unforgiving. Eastman Kodak said on Monday that third-quarter sales and earnings could be below expectations, and its stock tumbled $5.50 that day, to $60. The market nibbled further, and Kodak closed Friday at $59.625, down about $9 in two weeks. Treasury securities rallied, with the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond ending the week at 6.37 percent.
 
DIET DRUGS
No More Fen-Phen
There's a problem with magic bullets -- namely, bullets can be dangerous. And that may be the case with diet drugs that some had considered a magic bullet for obesity. Two popular diet drugs were withdrawn from the market at the request of the F.D.A., which said that they might cause heart valve damage. The drugs are fenfluramine, or Pondimin, and dexfenfluramine, or Redux, and doctors wrote 18 million prescriptions for them last year. They are often used in combination with phentermine, an amphetamine-like drug, as part of the combination known as fen-phen. Wyeth-Ayerst Laboratories, which makes fenfluramine and distributes dexfenfluramine, said it was conducting its own studies. Some overweight patients pleaded to keep the drugs, but are being advised to diet and exercise instead.
 
MERGERS
A New No. 1 in Accounting
Coopers & Lybrand and Price Waterhouse plan to merge their practices worldwide, creating the world's largest accounting and consulting firm. It would have had $11.8 billion in worldwide revenue last year and about 135,000 employees around the globe, surpassing Andersen Worldwide, which has reigned as the largest firm because of the sharp growth in the consulting side of its business. Andersen had $9.5 billion in worldwide revenue in 1996. The merger is subject to approval by several government bodies and by the firms' 8,500 partners. In other deals, Ingersoll-Rand announced that it would buy Westinghouse Electric's Thermo King division for $2.56 billion cash; the Fleet Financial Group agreed to buy Quick & Reilly for stock valued at slightly more than $1.6 billion, and Adidas planned to buy Salomon, the French sports equipment maker, for $1.4 billion.
 
REGULATORS
A Wireless-License Stalemate
The departing F.C.C. chairman, Reed E. Hundt, failed in a last-ditch effort to schedule new auctions for wireless communications licenses held by small, entrepreneurial companies in danger of defaulting on more than $10 billion in payments. The winners of the licenses in a 1996 auction ran into financial trouble almost immediately, as the stock market turned hostile to wireless companies. Mr. Hundt wanted to allow the companies to give back their licenses and participate in a new round of auctions without paying a heavy financial penalty. But the other three commissioners would force the companies to forfeit millions of dollars. As a result, Mr. Hundt said, the commission will be unable to devise a solution before Congress approves a new chairman and three new commissioners. Separately, in a victory for regulators, some network executives promised to begin broadcasting high-definition television programming starting next year, reversing their previous plan to use new channels for low-definition broadcasts.
 
CHIPS
Repealing Moore's Law
Intel achieved a technological breakthrough that should double the amount of memory on a chip, increase its speed and efficiency and permit chips to be used in a growing variety of consumer products from watches to cars. Using flash memory, the company is throwing an industry axiom, known as Moore's Law, out the window. The axiom holds that breakthroughs take 18 months; the new technology could bring such improvements every nine months.
 
BIG BLUE
I.B.M.'s Open Architecture
I.B.M. has moved. The distance is less than a mile, but the symbolism is far greater. Its 1964 headquarters building, a fortress of strength and power, sat majestically on top of a hill in Armonk, N.Y., with the chairman's office cloistered at the end of a long, forbidding corridor. The new, much smaller corporate home is quietly nestled in a woodsy ravine nearby, and Louis V. Gerstner Jr., the company's current chairman, and other top executives occupy the center wing of the Z-shaped structure, with most of the 600 other people working at cubicles in expansive spaces obstructed by few walls or doors.
 
DOWNSIZING
The Greening of Layoffs
The employees gave their all, risking life and limb, only to get the ax. What corporate titan did it? None. Greenpeace, the environmental activist group, is retrenching, laying off 335 of its 400 staff members and disassembling all 10 of its permanent branch offices in the United States. After 49 hours of daredevil dangling on ropes from the Aurora Bridge in Seattle, trying to block outgoing trawlers in a recent protest against overfishing, Greenpeace staff members returned to solid ground only to be told they had just been laid off. To be sure, they have corporate counterparts. Whirlpool, seeking to improve profits, said it would dismiss 4,700 employees -- just more than 10 percent of its work force -- and take a $350 million charge against earnings. The company's shares soared $8.0625 on Thursday, to a 52-week high of $64.875 on the New York Stock Exchange and gained more on Friday, closing at $65.0625.

GRAPHIC: Photos: IBM building (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times); Greenpeace (Associated Press); Reed Hundt (Chuck Kennedy for The New York Times)
 
Graphs show index of total industrial production; consumer prices, percent change. (Sources: Federal Reserve Board; Bureau of Labor Statistics); Eastman Kodak's stock price, weekly closings. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Drawing (Tom Bloom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: EK (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO (52%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (59%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (59%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TOBACCO MFG (92%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (91%); SMOKING (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); WEIGHT LOSS DRUGS (89%); DIETING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); STOCK INDEXES (87%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (79%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (72%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (72%); BONDS (72%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); OBESITY (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (68%); COMPANY EARNINGS (66%); TREASURY SECURITIES (63%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (63%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (50%); CONSTRUCTION (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1997



416 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 52; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 307 words

HEADLINE: How the Biggest Investors Are Forcing the Issues

 BODY:

To the Editor:
"The Search for the Perfect Corporate Board" (Aug. 3) thoroughly discussed public pension funds' interest in improving corporate governance. But very direct attacks on weak corporate financial performance, bypassing governance matters, are currently a more pervasive form of shareholder activism. 
 At one time, when institutional investors had small amounts under management, and a company was underperforming, they simply employed the Wall Street walk and sold the stock. Now, with very large holdings, many of the mega-institutions are not always willing to trade because of execution difficulties, and few buying opportunities (given high market values) and portfolios that are often locked into market indexes. But when a sizable stock holding ends up on the bottom of a financial performance list, these institutions have a fiduciary obligation to try to do something.
So public pension funds annually publish target lists of underperformers -- to the embarrassment of the executives and directors of the companies involved, for the lists are widely reported in the media. The pension funds, large money managers and, increasingly, mutual fund portfolio managers are on the telephone with the chief executives, the chief financial officers, and, lately, the independent directors of companies -- demanding and often getting corrective action.
Restructuring, cost-cutting, stock option alignment with shareholder interest and rising profits often follow.
Not exactly the Wall Street walk, but with many of the institutions now larger and more powerful than the companies they are monitoring, not bad either -- for both the stock market and the economy.
 
NED REGAN
Manhattan, Aug. 13
 
The writer, a former New York State Comptroller, is distinguished fellow at the Jerome Levy Economic Institute.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CORPORATIONS; BOARDS OF DIRECTORS PENSION FUNDS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (73%); WRITERS (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); 

PERSON: REGAN, NED

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1997



417 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1587 words

HEADLINE: In Forbes Strategy, Religious Right Now a Friend

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20

 BODY:
Thunderous applause greets him when he tells conservative audiences, "Life begins at conception." In speeches and television commercials around the country, he speaks out against everything from late-term abortions and Federal financing of the arts to teen-age pregnancy and needle exchanges for drug addicts. And at last week's Christian Coalition convention, one of the meeting's organizers marveled that he was "the belle of the ball."
This was not Pat Robertson, or even Patrick J. Buchanan. It was Steve Forbes, the 50-year-old publishing magnate who last year was regarded as more a foe than a friend of religious conservatives in his unsuccessful quest for the Republican Presidential nomination. 
 That the reserved Mr. Forbes is now presenting himself as a fiery warrior in the cultural wars is striking because he had always stayed clear of touchy issues like abortion, and seemed more comfortable relentlessly pressing for a flat tax. After all, during the campaign, Mr. Forbes dismissed the influential Christian Coalition, saying it "does not speak for most Americans." And he once wrote that Mr. Robertson, the coalition's founder, was a "toothy flake."
But Mr. Forbes's transformation is part of his carefully crafted strategy to make himself, if not the favorite of the conservative right, at least not its enemy. Since January, his new advocacy organization, Americans for Hope, Growth and Opportunity, has spent more than $400,000 on television and radio commercials to help him become an outspoken national voice on moral issues. Mr. Forbes hopes to use the leverage of his new visibility to win converts in the conservative base of the Republican Party, and in three years, catapult him to the top tier of contenders in his party's primaries in 2000.
Most surprising about Mr. Forbes's repositioning is that it may work. Unlike politicians who are quickly marked as disingenuous when they play up to one audience or another, Mr. Forbes, thus far, has managed to convince many die-hard social conservatives that he is one of them -- or, at the very least, could be.
At two recent conventions featuring parades of Republican White House hopefuls -- the Christian Coalition meeting in Atlanta and the Midwest Republican Leadership Conference in Indianapolis -- Mr. Forbes won raves from participants, who proclaimed him the best speaker. Even Human Events, a popular conservative publication that has never been partial to Mr. Forbes, will showcase him next week in its lead article, with the headline, "Forbes Brings Pro-Life Message to Enthusiastic Christian Coalition."
"He may have seen the light," said Mike Coan, a state representative from Lawrenceville, Ga., who listened to his speech at the Christian Coalition. "My instincts tell me he's being sincere."
The Rev. Louis P. Sheldon, chairman of the Traditional Values Coalition, a conservative, anti-gay church network based in Anaheim, Calif., said that last year he believed that Mr. Forbes was "a typical Northeastern millionaire, aloof from everyday inner-city problems and spiritual things." Now, he said, "I'm absolutely overwhelmed at his ability to define the problems. He has a desire to be relevant to the moral crises in America."
The receptivity to Mr. Forbes may also be evidence of a new pragmatism among social conservatives who are willing to embrace politicians who did not enter politics from a background of cultural issues. Part of Mr. Forbes's appeal may be that he has loosened up his oratory after a campaign last year when he often came off as a plodding number cruncher. The newly repackaged politician talks now about personal matters, like his mother's death from cancer, and works at poking fun at himself, telling audiences that he has "sympathy for the charismatically challenged."
Mr. Forbes acknowledged in an interview that he has tried to improve relations with religious conservatives, and noted that he invited Ralph Reed, then the executive director of the Christian Coalition, to lunch after the primaries. "I called and said, 'Do you want to have lunch? I'll even give you a free lunch,' " the multimillionaire recalled in the interview here this week. "We didn't have to bring food tasters. We were both on our best behavior." (It seemed to work; Mr. Reed, who during the campaign said Mr. Forbes's backing among religious conservatives was "falling like a rock from the upper story of a tall building," now ranks him as a leading contender for President.)
Insisting that he was no panderer, Mr. Forbes said social issues had always been integral to his message. "I think an audience quickly senses if you are not the real article," he said. "I always said values and economics are one and the same. And by values, I mean hard work, thrift, faith, belief in the future, belief that we're on this earth and in this land for a higher purpose. The message is the same. Times and circumstances may have changed."
To emphasize that point, Mr. Forbes's aides were at the ready with highlighted passages of their boss's past speeches, which they contend demonstrate that Mr. Forbes had always been concerned about social issues.
John McLaughlin, who was Mr. Forbes's pollster in the campaign and now is his group's media consultant, made no secret of his belief that his boss's improved relations with the conservative rank and file could raise his electoral prospects. "What you're seeing is a candidate with a broader vision," Mr. McLaughlin said, "and a person who has deeply held core beliefs that are well beyond the flat tax and economic growth."
One reason that conservatives were listening to Mr. Forbes's pronouncements on moral issues is that many had always been attracted to his economic policies, like the flat tax and tax credits for children. He also may not be dismissed as a typically pandering politician because to some people, Mr. Forbes, who has never been elected to anything, is not a politician.
"I'm not sure Christian-right people will be worried about his soul as long as he makes the right noises," said James L. Guth, a political science professor and expert on social conservatives at Furman University in Greenville, S.C. "The Christian right looked over the past transgressions of people like Ronald Reagan. I suspect there's a mixture of expedience and principle in his position."
Some think the blend is more weighted toward expedience. Jane Boynton, a nurse from Miami who heard Mr. Forbes speak at the Christian Coalition convention, said: "He said exactly what the people wanted to hear. But he didn't fool me. When Steve Forbes was running for President, he didn't talk very much about the rights of the unborn. He's just a politician."
While still running his family's publishing empire, Mr. Forbes is keeping a schedule as fast-paced as when he ran for President, trying to convince conservatives of his sincerity -- and to keep a high profile. He has delivered more than 75 speeches on policy issues since last year's election. On the speaking circuit this week alone, Mr. Forbes took three transcontinental red-eye flights. (His company sold its corporate jet, which was named the Capitalist Tool, so now Mr. Forbes flies commercial, though in first class.)
When Mr. Forbes was in Washington this week, for example, he sought out -- and campaigned with -- James S. Gilmore 3d, the Republican nominee for Governor in Virginia. "I called the Gilmore people and asked, 'You have anything you'd like us to accomplish while we're there?' " said Bill Dal Col, the president of Mr. Forbes's organization and his campaign manager last year.
As in the campaign, Mr. Forbes still refuses to endorse or oppose a constitutional amendment banning abortion. Instead, he has latched on to the debate over late-term abortions -- a procedure that even many Democrats have opposed aggressively -- and is making it a personal crusade. "In Indianapolis," Mr. Forbes boasted, "I was the only one who brought up the partial-birth abortion debate."
Mr. Forbes has not abandoned the flat tax; he still opens his speeches with a discourse on economics. But he laces his talks these days with evocative passages about social ills.
"You read about a great tragedy in my neighboring state of Delaware," Mr. Forbes, a New Jersey resident, told the Christian Coalition. "A young couple had a baby, and the father threw the child into a dumpster. Do you realize that under the law today, if they had just gone to a doctor before the actual birth and said, 'Perform a partial-birth abortion,' that killing would have been perfectly legal? This violates our deepest sense of justice and highest ideals of mercy."
In the interview, Mr. Forbes took care to press his social agenda while still not deviating from his past comments. For example, he said his description of Pat Robertson in his Forbes magazine column as a "toothy flake" was "in reference to some of his economic proposals." But the column had no reference to Mr. Robertson's economic proposals.
Asked what he thought of Mr. Robertson now, Mr. Forbes tried to change the subject. "I don't know him well," he said, adding that the coalition's new president, Donald P. Hodel, "would make a superb leader."
Mr. Forbes said last year that the only reason he ran for President was that his close friend and fellow champion of a tax overhaul, Jack Kemp, did not. Looking to 2000, Mr. Forbes seems to have a different attitude.
"I won't make my decision entirely on one other person's decision," Mr. Forbes said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steve Forbes's new advocacy group, Americans for Hope, Growth and Opportunity, has helped him become a national voice on moral issues. (Scott Robinson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHRISTIAN COALITION FORBES INC (92%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (91%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTIAN COALITION CHRISTIAN COALITION (91%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIANA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ABORTION (90%); RELIGION (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); RADIO ADVERTISING (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); GAYS & LESBIANS (65%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; FORBES, STEVE (MALCOLM S FORBES JR) MARION GORDON 'PAT' ROBERTSON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1997



418 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: For the First Time in Memory, Boston Has No Mayoral Contest

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG 

DATELINE: BOSTON, Sept. 20

 BODY:
Ah, says many a Bostonian, what I would not give in these political dog days for the rhetorical pirouettes of an Al Sharpton, or even for the wonkish erudition of a Ruth W. Messinger or the belligerence of a Rudolph W. Giuliani.
For as this politically addicted city approaches the first hurdle of the election season, a preliminary ballot to be held this Tuesday, there is a growing consensus that Boston politics has rarely if ever been more pallid. It certainly pales in comparison with the Sharpton-Messinger-Giuliani histrionics in the mayoral race in New York. 
 It is not that the field in the Boston mayoral race is weak, the columnists, consultants and interest group leaders complain. It is that there is no field at all.
Mayor Thomas M. Menino, the former insurance salesman who made city history in 1993 by breaking the traditional Irish hold on City Hall and becoming Boston's first Italian-American mayor, is making city history again: This is the first time in memory that the race for mayor has been uncontested.
"We're going into a very boring election, everyone agrees about that," said Thomas O'Connor, a Boston historian. "But from time to time," he added nostalgically, recalling races in 1949 and 1959, when the city was home to some famously roguish political bosses, "Boston has had some fantastic elections."
This year's mayoral race, or rather, the lack of one, stands in sharp contrast to 1993, when, at one point, 13 contenders had declared their intention to run. This year, four obscure challengers said they would compete, but then failed to gather the 3,000 valid signatures required.
So the crown is left to Mr. Menino, who is seen as much more of a detail man than a visionary and says he wants to continue the solid work he has begun: improving education, keeping crime down and creating jobs. Because he is unchallenged, the mayoral ballot for Tuesday has been canceled, and only the nonpartisan City Council races will go before the voters.
In the laments of those going through political cold turkey -- and already suffering from William F. Weld withdrawal now that the Republican former Governor, having given up his fight to become Ambassador to Mexico, says he is likely to go into finance -- no one is saying that Mr. Menino has done a bad job in filling potholes and cleaning streets. But a campaign usually serves to bring up issues for substantive debate, and that, commentators say regretfully, will be lacking this quadrennium.
Christopher Lydon, host of a syndicated public radio call-in show and himself a former mayoral candidate, bemoaned the state of political discourse. "We're stuck with hack politics," he said.
The explanation for the lack of candidates is simple: Mr. Menino, who is known to many as Tommy, has had approval ratings as high as 74 percent; and the city, raised like so many others by the national economic tide, is doing extremely well.
Add in the cost of running for office and the declining voter pool, and "an incumbent mayor is a shoo-in for re-election," said Kevin Peterson, executive director of Party of the Solution, a voter mobilization group in the Roxbury section of Boston.
If current apathy trends keep up, Mr. Peterson noted, less than 30 percent of the voters will vote in the mayoral election in November. "Boston used to be a hotbed for political participation," Mr. Peterson said. "It seems more like a graveyard these days."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON (MASS); UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ITALIAN-AMERICANS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION MAYORS (95%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); GOVERNORS (71%); HISTORY (68%); JOB CREATION (61%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (60%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (60%); WRITERS (54%); CRIME RATES (50%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERG, CAREY; MENINO, THOMAS M (MAYOR) AL SHARPTON (88%); RUDY GIULIANI (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1997



419 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1803 words

HEADLINE: Civil Rights Anniversary Points to Unfinished Tasks

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK 

DATELINE: LITTLE ROCK, Ark., Sept. 17

 BODY:
Perhaps no building in America is as haunted by the legacy of racial hatred as the brown-brick fortress known as Little Rock Central High School.
Forty years ago, in the biggest challenge to the Federal Government's authority over the states since the Civil War, Gov. Orval E. Faubus of Arkansas called out the National Guard to block a Federal court order to desegregate the school. Only after a three-week standoff between Mr. Faubus and President Dwight D. Eisenhower did nine black students enter the school, protected from a belligerent white mob by columns of Federal troops with fixed bayonets. 
 Until now, this city has never wanted to talk much about the ugliness of its past. Many here reasoned that the seemingly indelible images of 1957 would simply have to fade with the years.
But this month, with the help of an Arkansan in the White House, Little Rock has planned a grand commemoration of its school desegregation battle, a risky strategy to improve the city's image by focusing attention on the distance it has traveled.
Those planning the 40th anniversary events, which include an address by President Clinton on Sept. 25, view today's Central High School as the star of the show. They argue that Central's increasingly multiracial student body and its annual take of academic prizes and Ivy League admissions demonstrate that schools can overcome the national trend toward resegregation.
Though the size of the black majority in the Little Rock School District as a whole has grown over the last four years, Central's student body is now 40 percent white, up from 34 percent in 1993.
But by opening the school to renewed scrutiny, the commemoration has also exposed failings that reflect the shortcomings of integration efforts in hundreds of American cities and in society at large.
At Central, as at public schools across the country, white students are far more likely than black students to be enrolled in college preparatory honors classes. Only 13 percent of the seats in Advanced Placement and other honors courses were held by black students last year.
Black students, on average, score half as well as whites on standardized tests. They are twice as likely to drop out of school. They receive a disproportionate share of disciplinary sanctions. Though black students and white students seem to have settled into an amiable coexistence, they rarely socialize in any meaningful way.
Frustrated by the lack of progress in achieving any semblance of academic equity, the city's school board continues to tinker with its court-monitored desegregation plan. This week, the board approved changes to the plan that would emphasize a return to neighborhood schools, a move that would presumably sacrifice a measure of racial balance in the pursuit of educational improvements. In the past, the board has relied on magnet programs, busing, extra financing for predominantly minority schools and a liberal student transfer policy to try to integrate schools in Little Rock, a city of 175,000 people where 65 percent of the population is white.
The challenge of achieving racial balance and academic equity in public schools like Central is so daunting that many educators, here and elsewhere, now openly question whether it is even remotely realistic to pursue both goals simultaneously.
Rudolph Howard, Central's bullhorn-toting principal, said that "desegregation, superficially, has worked" in Little Rock. But he acknowledged that the prevalence of one race in many classes, among other disparities, remained an entrenched problem.
"Certainly, you will see some one-race classes here," Mr. Howard said. "But I would ask, What is the school's role? Is it about helping kids, all kids, develop to the maximum of their potential, or is it playing these numbers games?"
Mr. Howard, who is Central's third black principal, denied that students were systematically tracked into particular classes according to race. He said that students from underprivileged families, many of them black, often arrived at Central without the family support or educational values they needed to succeed in advanced classes.
"They bring in attitudes that it's not cool to be smart, it's not cool to be out front," he said. "We try to tell them they have a responsibility to develop themselves as much as they can."
In many ways, the continuing academic disparity at schools like Central seems to betray the reasons that black students wanted to enroll there in the first place.
"Does anybody really think we wanted to go to Central High School because we wanted to sit next to white people?" asked Melba Patillo Beals, one of the school's original nine black students, now a writer in Sausalito, Calif. "We wanted to go to Central High School because they were getting Rhodes Scholarships there. We wanted equal access to opportunities."
And to some veterans of Little Rock's lengthy desegregation fight, the failure to create a more meaningful integration has only deepened the mistrust that still lingers from 40 years ago.
"Those white kids are able to come to that school, to a majority black school, because they know they will not have to associate with black kids in their classes," said Elizabeth Eckford, the only member of the Little Rock Nine still living here. "In those circumstances, they can tolerate desegregation."
White parents and students dispute that notion. They said white students were eager to attend Central because of its tradition of academic achievement, the quality of its teaching and the value of a Central High diploma in the college admissions game. Members of the class of 1997 were accepted to every Ivy League university save Dartmouth.
The daughter of Gov. Mike Huckabee is among the 1,813 students at Central. The children of the Clinton Administration officials Thomas F. McLarty 3d and Bruce R. Lindsey went there. Had her father not received a job transfer to Washington, Chelsea Clinton would probably have attended as well, friends of the Clintons said.
"You go to any inner-city high school and I guarantee you won't find one working any better than Little Rock Central High School," said Skip Rutherford, a Little Rock public relations consultant, Clinton confidant and Central High parent. Mr. Rutherford is white.
On Sept. 25, the actual anniversary of the day that the nine black students finally enrolled at Central High, President Clinton will return to his native state to deliver what his aides describe as a major address on race relations. He will be introduced by Fatima J. McKindra, a self-possessed senior who is the first black female president of the student body. In a poignant moment of symbolic stagecraft, Mr. Clinton is expected to hold open the front door to the school as the Little Rock Nine, now in their 50's, cross the threshold once again.
The Presidential visit coincides with an array of symposiums on the events of 1957 and with the opening of a Central High visitor center across the street from the school housed in an old Mobil service station.
It features exhibits about the confrontation between Governor Faubus and President Eisenhower and about the campaign of abuse waged against the black students once they entered the school. Students were regularly spat upon and body-slammed into lockers. Broken glass was left on shower floors.
The exhibit also includes a black-and-white photograph of Ernest Green, the only senior among the Nine, in his cap and gown at his graduation ceremony, where the announcement of his name was greeted with silence. It concludes with a color photograph of smiling students at last year's highly integrated commencement.
The nine former students are now spread across the world. They are writers and accountants and professors and real estate agents. Ms. Eckford is unemployed and receiving disability benefits.
Mr. Green, a managing director with Lehman Brothers in Washington and a close friend of the President, became a Democratic fund-raiser whose ties to Chinese businessmen have caught the interest of Congressional investigators.
Daisy Bates, the N.A.A.C.P. leader who served as a mentor to the students, still lives in the house where the students gathered in the weeks they were prevented from going to school. Though a stroke has slurred her speech and limited her hearing, she remembers the events of 40 years ago with clarity.
"I knew by going through this that it would help the children of that time and the children of this time too," said Mrs. Bates, now in her 80's.
Because the history is still so raw, and because many of the participants are still alive, the commemoration makes many here uneasy. Some black residents fear that it may close a chapter prematurely. Some whites dread the rehashing of memories that they would like to see buried.
Craig Rains, a member of Central's Class of 1958 and now a prominent public relations consultant, left town for three days this month after The Arkansas Democrat-Gazette reprinted a page from 1957 that quoted him declaring his support for segregation. Mr. Rains underwent something of an epiphany after watching his classmates verbally abuse Ms. Eckford during the first week of the integration crisis. He now lives in a racially mixed neighborhood and serves on the commission planning the commemoration.
Joan K. Adcock, another white member of the class and now a member of the Little Rock City Board, worries about the classmates whose children and grandchildren may see them in unflattering photographs at the visitor center.
"We shouldn't have to be responsible in our 50's for things we did as teen-agers," Ms. Adcock said. "We grow up. Some of those people have come forward publicly and said how ashamed they are."
Ms. Beals, one of the Little Rock Nine, does not buy that rationale. "Their grandchildren might see who they were back then and then celebrate their growth," she said. "What would they have us do, deny that it happened?"
Today's Central High students are acutely aware of the history of their school, and many attribute its academic achievements to an intense motivation to overcome the past.
"We take the torch we got from the Little Rock Nine and we pass it from class to class," said Ms. McKindra, the student body president.
She and other students said that race relations were congenial at the school but that blacks and whites divided up in social settings. White students, for the most part, eat lunch at picnic tables outside. Black students, for the most part, eat in the cafeteria.
"There was a pep rally last week and I looked up at the seniors, and all the whites were sitting together and all the blacks were sitting together," said Derrick L. Floyd, a black senior and star basketball player. "I said to myself, 'Why aren't we all sitting together?' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Elizabeth Eckford, quoted in an exhibit on the 1957 integration of Little Rock Central High School. When she joined a group of students at Central High, above foreground (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times), her reception was a far cry from the taunts she received on Sept. 4, 1957, left. (Associated Press)(pg. 1); Daisy Bates was a mentor to the first black students at the school. (pg. 32)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (95%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK (ARK); UNITED STATES (95%); ARKANSAS, USA (95%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; EQUAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES; BLACKS; DISCRIMINATION; TESTS AND TESTING; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; DROPOUTS ANNIVERSARIES (91%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (88%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); CIVIL WAR (77%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (77%); LITIGATION (76%); APPROVALS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); SCHOOL BOARDS (69%); CITY LIFE (69%); CITIES (69%); TRENDS (64%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (58%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1997



420 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: In Post-Soviet Era, the Old Style Works

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER 

DATELINE: BAKU, Azerbaijan

 BODY:
At the sprawling Pasaj market in downtown Baku, there is little subtlety in people's praise for President Heydar Aliyev.
"Is there anything he has not achieved?" asked one smiling fruit vendor. "Oh, he is a perfect leader," added another. A third, evidently not wanting to be outdone, asserted that "he is like a second God to us." 
 Azerbaijan was in chaos when Mr. Aliyev emerged from a messy power struggle in 1993 and then called a presidential election, which he won with a reported 97 percent of the vote.
Food was scarce, Armenian troops were marching through Azerbaijani territory, and contending warlords had reduced the countryside to virtual anarchy.
Today the country is stable, if not prosperous. Food is plentiful for those who can afford it, and foreign oil companies are beginning to tap vast reserves, which promise great wealth. The inflation rate has dropped to less than 10 percent a year from more than 1,000 percent.
At home, Mr. Aliyev has disarmed the warlords, and has shown a masterly ability to balance the interests of the foreign powers that are casting covetous eyes on Azerbaijani oil.
"He's carrying this whole country on his shoulders," said Charles Schroeder, one of hundreds of Americans who have come here seeking to share in the oil bonanza. "Without him we'd really be in trouble. A lot of people didn't like him at first, but now you don't hear a bad word about him. He's a very smooth professional, and he plays the game very skillfully."
Critics say, though, that Mr. Aliyev's autocratic style has hindered the development of democracy. His Government limits press freedom and harasses dissidents, imprisoning and reportedly torturing those who will not heel.
And in the countryside, and even in Baku, the capital, some poor people are beginning to wonder when their lives will begin to improve.
For the time being, however, Mr. Aliyev towers.
"People gravitate toward him because he has such a huge personality," said Eldar Namazov, one of the President's closest aides. "No one can doubt what he has done for this country. When he came to power, Azerbaijan was collapsing as a state. He accomplished a mission comparable to Ataturk in Turkey, or de Gaulle in France. He took over a ruined state and restored it under incredibly difficult circumstances."
"Politics is everything for him," Mr. Namazov said. "It is his work, his hobby and his life."
To opponents, however, Mr. Aliyev's outsize personality is cause for concern.
"He is a classic Soviet leader," said Leyla Yunusova, an opposition figure who heads a human rights group called the Institute of Peace and Democracy. "He perfectly understands our people and the slave mentality we have fallen into over the last 70 years. His tools are control over people's livelihood, blackmail, corruption, propaganda and, if nothing else works, police repression."
Mr. Aliyev, 74, spent much of his career in the Soviet secret police, rising to the rank of general in the K.G.B. and heading its apparatus in Azerbaijan.
In 1969, under the patronage of the Soviet leader Leonid I. Brezhnev, he became the Communist leader of the Azerbaijan Soviet Socialist Republic. Later he was named to the Politburo in Moscow, the first leader from a Muslim republic to reach such heights.
Mikhail S. Gorbachev forced Mr. Aliyev from power in 1987, and he returned to his hometown to watch the collapse of the Soviet Union he had served for nearly half a century.
After the pro-Western leaders who led Azerbaijan to independence in 1991 proved unable to control the country, he staged a triumphant comeback, portraying himself as the strong hand the country needed.
Mr. Aliyev has never been known as a modest man, and in Baku it is difficult to avoid his image.
Posters of him hang in schools, shops and offices. Along many roadsides, billboards have sprung up bearing quotations from his speeches, such as, "I have devoted my entire life to my country."
The state-run television station is still rebroadcasting long reports on his trip to the United States more than a month ago.
Recently Mr. Aliyev designated June 15 as a new holiday called National Salvation Day. On that date in 1993, he arrived in Baku from his home region of Nakhichevan and began the political maneuvers that ultimately led him back to power.
In dealing with foreign oil companies that are vying for the great wealth that lies beneath the Caspian Sea, off Azerbaijan's coast, Mr. Aliyev has used the skills he accumulated in a lifetime of political maneuvering.
He has consistently favored multinational consortiums, sensing that by giving various countries a slice of the profits -- expected to be enormous in the years ahead -- he is giving each of them a powerful incentive to support Azerbaijan's independence and stability as well as his own power.
Mr. Aliyev does not tolerate the rise of politicians who might become rivals, and he has made no visible provisions for succession.
He takes pains to show that he remains strong and vigorous, but some foreigners here say he has gathered so much power into his own hands that if he were to die suddenly, the country could descend into chaos again.
"When he's out of the country everything stops," said a foreign ambassador posted in Baku. "People hardly even dare to fix a leaking toilet without his approval."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Heydar Aliyev, a protege of Leonid I. Brezhnev, became Azerbaijan's leader under the Soviets, fell from power, then staged a comeback after independence. His portrait was among paintings on sale in Baku. (Staton R. Winter for The New York Times)
 
Map showing the location of Baku, Azerbaijan: In Baku, Heydar Aliyev's image and influence are ubiquitous.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); 

COUNTRY: AZERBAIJAN (94%); ARMENIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); TURKEY (79%); FRANCE (72%); 

CITY: BAKU, AZERBAIJAN (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AZERBAIJAN; AZERBAIJAN (94%); ARMENIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); TURKEY (79%); FRANCE (72%); BAKU, AZERBAIJAN (91%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (63%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (63%); INFLATION (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); 

PERSON: KINZER, STEPHEN; ALIYEV, HEYDAR (PRES); BREZHNEV, LEONID I (1906-82)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1997



421 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: For the Poles, Brimming Baskets and a Vote Too

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: WARSAW, Sept. 20

 BODY:
The new abundance in Poland is evident everywhere in the supermarket parking lot here.
Smoked salmon and delicate pastries are among the goodies Kristina Ostap, a 50-year-old dentist, tosses onto the back seat of her car. 
 As Kasha Ostojska heads for the store, her year-old daughter, Karolina, is looking cute in her imported fake crocodile shoes and faded denim overalls.
All around, shopping carts are being wheeled out of the Geant supermarket -- a French chain -- stuffed with fresh fish and meat, vegetables and brand-name mineral water.
Poland will hold parliamentary elections on Sunday, and as middle-class shoppers in the Warsaw suburb of Ursynow load their trunks for the weekend, they find it hard to deny the almost giddy rise in their living standards during the last four years under a Government of former Communists.
Nevertheless, surprisingly few of them will vote for the Democratic Left Alliance, as the revamped former Communists call themselves, even though the Alliance promises an even rosier future.
The fault lines in the election, which many consider a landmark, will be ideological, according to politicians, pollsters and ordinary voters. Whether you were or were not a Communist is a question that continues to haunt the Poles eight years after the collapse of the Berlin wall.
And because the question still dominates the political environment, the former Communists, despite the added advantage of a popular and youthful President, Aleksander Kwasniewski, are unlikely to command much more than one-quarter of the vote, according to recent polls.
A right-of-center populist coalition, grouped around the anti-Communist Solidarity trade union movement founded by Lech Walesa and now known as Solidarity Election Action, is also likely to command about one-quarter of the vote.
This will most probably leave as kingmaker Leszek Balcerowicz, the ascetic-looking architect of Poland's shock-therapy economic reforms and now the leader of the centrist free-market party, Freedom Union.
Mr. Balcerowicz is likely to be courted by both major parties as they struggle after Sunday's vote to form a government.
Mr. Balcerowicz's program, calling for faster privatization and completion of the economic reforms he started, is actually closer to that of the former Communists than to that of Solidarity, which is not anxious to complete the reform program it began five years ago.
But given Poland's current ideological divide, Mr. Balcerowicz cannot say so.
"We have to take into account the emotions of our voters," he said, as he completed a radio debate in Warsaw and headed by car to his election district in the coal mining area of Silesia.
Poland's foreign investors, many of them big American companies, say they hope that the former Communists, whom they see as more progressive on the economy, come in ahead of Solidarity.
Whatever the shape of the new Government, it will be taking over a Poland that in many ways looks far more like a country on the move than the much richer members of the European Union it hopes to join.
Poland is heading for its third year of about 6 percent economic growth. Unemployment, at slightly below 12 percent, has been steadily declining, and real incomes are rising. Car sales have grown at such a phenomenal rate that international manufacturers are racing to build plants.
Some of this success is expected to rub off on the former Communists, who in 1993 won 20 percent of the vote and formed a Government with the Peasant Party. This time the former Communists are likely to increase their vote by 6 or 7 percent, polls suggest, but not by enough to insure a place in the new Government.
"The public is happy with the economic growth but unhappy with the method of governing," said Wojciech Pawlak, the president of OBOP, a leading polling organization. "They feel there is political corruption."
For example, he said, voters look askance at the Alliance's appointments of party faithful to lead important public institutions, like television and radio. They object to state-run industries being run by former Communist apparatchiks. And they feel that the ballooning deficit in foreign trade is getting out of hand.
Back at the supermarket parking lot, Anna Cegiela, 44, a language professor at Warsaw University, said she could not trust the former Communists.
"I'm old enough to remember what they were like," she said. "And they want to appoint all their people to top posts."
As for Kasha Ostojska, she said her life was good; her husband runs a car-leasing company and they can afford what they want.
"But other people at state institutions are doing very poorly -- their standard of living went down," she added, nosing her shopping cart toward the supermarket entrance, with her daughter perched atop. "I'm not a Communist. I've never voted for the Democratic Alliance and never will."
But as Mrs. Ostap, the dentist, threw the last of her delicacies into the car, she said that she worries that there is too much discussion about the past.
"We have to go forward," she said.
In the last four years, she bought a new and better apartment and rented out her old one. Her daughter, Katarzyna, 24, recently graduated from business school and was hired by Philip Morris.
Mrs. Ostap said she would vote for the former Communists. "I've never been a supporter of the left wing, but I'm becoming one," she said as she drove off.
Whatever the outcome, many in Poland see the election as a final leg in the maturing of the democratic process here. It will be the third national election -- after a parliamentary election in 1993 and a presidential election in 1995 -- in which standard methods of Western electioneering have been used.
Television advertising, tracking polls, scrappy radio and television debates and exit polls are all routine now. And most important, the count is considered sound and the results are adhered to.
"This campaign has been much more civilized," said Mr. Pawlak, the pollster. "The debates are serious, there's no sign of the furious politics. You can even complain that it is too quiet in Poland."
This is the first election since 1989 in which Mr. Walesa, President from 1990 to 1995, is not a major player. Mr. Walesa has promised to launch a new political party after Sunday's vote.
But in another sign of Poland's new political maturity, it seems likely that Mr. Walesa -- the patron of Polish democracy, but unpredictable and hot-headed -- will be looking on from the sidelines.

GRAPHIC: Photo: With a parliamentary election scheduled for today, downtown Warsaw was plastered with posters. Former Communists, revamped as the Democratic Left Alliance, have led the country to new prosperity and promised an even rosier future, but they were behind in polls before the vote. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: POLAND (99%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (93%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: POLAND; POLAND (99%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); WARSAW, POLAND (93%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; STANDARD OF LIVING; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICS (75%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (75%); PRIVATIZATION (75%); LIVING STANDARDS (74%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); BOTTLED WATER (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); LABOR UNIONS (63%); MINES & MINING (60%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (50%); COAL MINING (50%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1997



422 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1441 words

HEADLINE: Pittsburgh at Progress Crossroads

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH

 BODY:
This is no ordinary mining machine and no ordinary building where scientists are tinkering with it.
The 25-foot-long machine, which can churn loose several tons of soft coal a day, is being rigged with a computer system so a single operator can drive it from above ground rather than a team of workers down below, reducing workers' exposure to the danger of the mines. 
 The building housing the machine, once a pipe and valve plant, was vacant for decades before the city bought it in 1994. Now renovated and leased to Carnegie Mellon University, it serves as a center for scientists developing robotic systems to operate vehicles and machinery.
"We can make any machine intelligent, from a car to a lawn mower," said R. Craig Coulter, a project scientist. Pointing to a harvester, he said, "We can run that with a cell phone." Oh, and by the way, Mr. Coulter predicted that robotic systems would generate annual sales of $40 billion within five years for the growing number of companies developing them.
Welcome to Pittsburgh as the 21st century approaches.
Long past its prime as the nation's leading steel producer, Pittsburgh is blooming all along the three rivers that converge at its heart. High technology, health services and banking have become the anchors of a steadily diversifying economy. Crime rates and real estate costs are among the lowest of any big city in the country, and the vacant lots and hulking shells of long-abandoned steel mills are being turned into parks, residential developments, manufacturing plants and technology centers.
Yet for all the progress of the post-industrial years, Pittsburgh is at a crossroads. The city and the surrounding 10 counties face a November referendum to finance several major projects that officials say could determine whether the city continues its path of improvement.
Despite the recent growth, the city's population has fallen to 360,000, a mighty drop from its peak of 676,000 in 1950. Allegheny County, which includes Pittsburgh and 129 smaller municipalities, dropped to 1.33 million in 1990 from 1.45 million in 1980.
Many graduates of Carnegie Mellon, the University of Pittsburgh and Duquesne University have sought careers elsewhere. And the outward flow of young brain power is fueling a common perception among the remaining residents that Pittsburgh has become a second-tier American city, too parochial to challenge more sophisticated places like New York, Los Angeles and Chicago at anything. The city's older population, especially, tends to view change suspiciously, even fearfully.
"Sometimes people here just don't have much confidence in themselves," said Frank Cahouet, chairman and chief executive of Mellon Bank, and that view is shared by many in the city's power structure. "They find it easier to say no than yes."
In November, voters in Pittsburgh, Allegheny County and nine surrounding counties will have their next chance to say yes or no on a new sales tax to finance development. Business and civic leaders say the choice could determine whether the city leaps or limps into the 21st century, while others warn that the tax would drive out still more residents while primarily benefiting the city's sports teams.
The referendum, known as the Regional Renaissance Initiative, proposes a half-cent sales tax increase that could generate as much as $700 million by the time it ends in seven years. Most of the money would be used in Pittsburgh for two downtown stadiums for the city's professional baseball and football teams, the Pirates and the Steelers; a major expansion of the convention center, and completion of the Cultural District of theaters and galleries.
Counties in which voters approve the measure would receive money for their own economic development projects. And only those in which the measure passed would share the revenue. Economists here predict that the tax would cost each working family member $35 to $45 a year and lead to $1 billion or more in new private investment for the region, if all 10 counties approved the measure.
But that appears unlikely. Public sentiment is running strongly against the measure, even in Allegheny County, despite the fact that the Pirates, a beloved team with a rich history of success, is threatening to leave Pittsburgh by 2001 if a new baseball stadium is not built. Since 1971, both of the city's professional teams have played in Three Rivers Stadium.
"This is critical," said Pittsburgh's Mayor, Tom Murphy, an ardent supporter of the referendum and a Democrat who is expected to breeze to re-election in November. "This would put us in a position to compete with many other cities. Tangibly, it could lead to several billion dollars of investment commitments. Intangibly, it takes Pittsburgh to another level of how we think about ourselves."
A $3 million advertising campaign to sell the referendum is aimed principally at voters who oppose a tax increase and those who say the measure would benefit only Pittsburgh, wealthy team owners and high-salaried athletes.
Larry Dunn, a Republican member of the Allegheny County Commission and its chairman until he was ousted last month, has led the opposition to the measure, arguing that Allegheny's sales tax of 7 percent, compared with the surrounding counties' 6 percent, is already helping to drive people out of the city.
But supporters of the referendum contend that such a narrow view not only threatens the economic base of the entire region, stanching job growth, but also reflects a "mill mentality" that lingers from the days of Big Steel, when paternalistic plant owners played major roles in solving the city's problems.
Many of Pittsburgh's older neighborhoods are still populated by the grown children of steelworkers who have followed family tradition by seeking work in the scores of smaller manufacturing plants, which have become the region's third-largest employer, after business services, which include the high-tech companies, and retail.
"There is no longer an industrialist climate here of Big Daddy or Momma taking care of you -- those days are over," said George L. Miles Jr., president and chief executive of WQED, the city's public television station. "If the tax doesn't go through, the region could start to go adrift."
Rick Stafford, executive director of the Allegheny Conference on Community Development, an organization of corporate executives that favors the referendum, put it more bluntly, saying: "There is no Plan B. Those who say there is one don't know what they're talking about."
Mayor Murphy and other leaders disagree with that assessment, saying that alternative financing for the sports stadiums and other downtown construction could be found if the tax measure failed. But they say the failure of the referendum would be a psychological blow to the region.
"It would not be a total disaster, but it would slow down momentum," said Thomas H. O'Brien, chairman and chief executive of PNC Bank, the largest financial services company in the city. "We would still grow but at a slower rate."
The downtown projects that would be financed by the new sales tax are viewed by supporters as important magnets to stem the loss of young people and attract new residents and businesses throughout the region.
For all the economic growth in the city, the downtown triangle, bordered by the Allegheny and Monongahela Rivers, is struggling to catch up with redeveloped neighborhoods as a place people want to go after 7 P.M. Referendum supporters say an expanded convention center, in particular, would attract new hotels, bars and restaurants, enhancing Pittsburgh's ability to compete for events that now go to cities of comparable size that have larger convention centers and more amenities.
That kind of growth would also complement the modernization occurring beyond downtown, much of it in Mr. Murphy's first term. Since 1994, the city has spent more than $200 million to buy unused properties, then leased or sold them to developers who have turned them into new businesses, housing and manufacturing plants.
Prominent examples include Washington's Landing, a small island in the Allegheny that was once home to the city's slaughterhouses but is now a 90-unit residential community and the Pittsburgh Technology Center, an office complex on the Monongahela built on the site of a former steel mill.
"The No. 1 problem we have," Mr. Murphy said, "is building a sense of confidence in ourselves that we can do anything. In that sense, the referendum is a metaphor for whether we believe in ourselves and whether we can take Pittsburgh to another level."

GRAPHIC: Photo: R. Craig Coulter, a technology scientist in Pittsburgh, is part of a team working on modifying a coal-mining machine with a computer system so that the machine can be operated from outside the mine shaft. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "AT A GLANCE: Pittsburgh"
Pittsburgh was settled around 1758 and incorporated as a city in 1816. As early as the Civil War, Pittsburgh was a center for iron production.
 
POPULATION -- 360,000
MEDIAN FAMILY INCOME -- $34,534
 
VIOLENT CRIME RATE, 1995 (per 100,000 people)
Pittsburgh -- 979
New York -- 1,573
 
EMPLOYMENT
Hospitals -- 36,585
Higher Education -- 31,681
Financial Institutions -- 20,418
Manufacturing -- 15,176
Health care and services -- 10,906
 
(Sources: 1997 World Almanac, 1997 Book of Lists, F.B.I., City of Pittsburg)
 
Map of Pennsylvania showing the location of Pittsburg.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH (PA); UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: REFERENDUMS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (89%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); POPULATION DECLINE (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); TRENDS (76%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ROBOTICS (74%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (74%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); SALES FIGURES (72%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (71%); CRIME RATES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); REFERENDUMS (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1997



423 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 145 words

HEADLINE: Parental Involvement Makes Better Students;
Bold Change at Chicago

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Your Sept. 17 Education page article on the closing of the University of Chicago's department of education effectively captures the different views of that decision and how it grew out of past developments in educational research here and elsewhere. 
 There is also a forward-looking perspective. The faculty at Chicago voted to close the department because they believed that it was not working well and alternatives had to be sought. It was not a decision to abandon educational research but to refocus it in the departments of sociology, economics, psychology and anthropology, where the most challenging and rigorous social science studies of education will be produced, as they have been here at Chicago over the past two decades.
 
RICHARD P. SALLER
Dean, Social Sciences Division
University of Chicago
Chicago, Sept. 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SOCIOLOGY (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PSYCHOLOGY (71%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (71%); 

PERSON: SALLER, RICHARD (DR)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1997



424 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1997

SECTION: Section 8; Page 11; Column 4; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: ON BASEBALL;
Cone Puts Yankees' Minds at Ease

BYLINE: By Claire Smith 

 BODY:
Cito Gaston didn't intend the double meaning. He merely meant to deliver the highest of compliments.
"David Cone is a manager's off day," said Gaston, who managed Cone on the Toronto Blue Jays' 1992 world championship team. He meant that Cone is so low maintenance, he practically assures a manager a one-day-a-week vacation. If everything is right. 
 Yet Joe Torre -- Gaston's counterpart with the Yankees and Cone's present manager -- knows that things haven't been right for a while. Not since Cone was felled by shoulder tendinitis in a game against the Texas Rangers on Aug. 17.
Now Torre and the Yankees need for everything to be perfect again, with Cone leading the rotation, or else the entire organization is headed for a bunch of unwanted off days come October -- because the Yankees look so vulnerable in the rotation, because Andy Pettitte, the only other reliable starter, can't start every post-season game.
Which is why yesterday's game at Yankee Stadium was so important, not only for Cone's mental health but for that of the Yankees. After an agonizing absence of more than a month, Cone pitched again, so well that you could almost hear a whole organization exhale.
Cone didn't win; he was gone long before the Yankees stopped Gaston's Jays, 4-3, in 11 innings to clinch the American League wild-card berth at last.
But the fact that Cone, for a second straight season, battled back from injuries to be in position to pitch a game of such import was even more medicinal than the clincher.
Now he will have only one more start to tune up before possibly taking the ball in the first playoff game, which will probably be against Cleveland here on Sept. 30. And because the 34-year-old Cone is set to help along the Yankees' dream of a repeat world championship, Torre couldn't hide his delight.
"I couldn't be happier," said Torre, who fielded more questions about his star pitcher than about the second straight post-season he will enter with the club.
Such a post-season assignment for Cone was far from a given only a week ago. "I wasn't ready to give up, but I was worried, no doubt about it," Cone said after the relief of his 80-pitch effort.
The Blue Jays did pick at Cone for three runs, two of them earned, in five innings. And Cone allowed six hits, including two triples by the leadoff hitter, Shannon Stewart.
But he gave up no walks and had five strikeouts. More important, there were no obvious tweaks, twinges or looks of concern. Cone, obviously at ease physically, settled into a routine, with decreasing anxiety and increasing economy of effort. He opened with a 19-pitch first inning, followed by innings of 18, 15, 16 and 12.
Cone's final pitch, a slider, was good enough to strike out Carlos Garcia to end the fifth after Stewart's second triple. "Probably the best slider I threw," Cone said. "I was a little shaky early, but in the fourth and fifth I was much closer to normal. And the way I threw in the fourth and fifth, that was the most encouraging part about the game, not only for me but for my teammates."
Indeed, as Cone settled into his recognizable cruise control, one could just imagine Torre doing the same.
"He's just one of those guys you don't have to worry about every inning," said Gaston, a manager who has had the opportunity to compare Cone, Dave Stewart, Roger Clemens and Jimmy Key. "He's one of those guys who really knows what he is doing out there. Cone has so many different pitches, so many different ways to get you out. He's so professional, you just kind of sit back and relax when he's out there, because you know he's going to get the job done for you most of the time."
Torre, the lead tenor in the Yankee chorus that has sung Cone's praises for two seasons, can attest to everything Gaston said. He watched Cone overcome surgery for an aneurysm last season, almost single-handedly elevating the Yankees' level of intensity when he came back after missing four months to pitch a near no-hitter at Oakland. And he saw Cone get the victory in the division-clinching game against Milwaukee last Sept. 25.
The pitcher showed the Yankees what was needed to hold off the charging Baltimore Orioles in the American League East, going 3-1 last September. But he saved his most inspirational performance for the World Series, once again resuscitating the Yankees after they had lost the first two games at home against the Atlanta Braves. Cone was brilliant in Game 3, limiting the Braves to one run in six innings and sparking the first of four straight Yankee victories.
Now, Cone has fought another battle, pitting his guile and talent against an enemy not as frightening as an aneurysm but nonetheless potentially devastating to the Yankees' hope of repeating as world champions. The outcome may not be final; Cone says how his shoulder feels today will say a lot about his October.
Should Cone come all the way back, Gaston, for one, is convinced the pitcher who just keeps getting better will have more than a few big moments left.
"Believe me, he's still in charge out there," Gaston said. "It still burns brightly. You don't see it as much as you do with Roger; it's a quiet thing. But it's definitely there."
That's what Joe Torre must count on if he wants to take his off days one at a time next month, on days when David Cone has taken the ball.

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Cone turned in a solid five-inning performance yesterday. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); TEXAS, USA (71%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (58%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (58%); TEXAS RANGERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (58%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (58%); TEXAS RANGERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (72%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); TEXAS, USA (71%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; PLAYOFF GAMES BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (77%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (69%); MENTAL HEALTH (66%); 

PERSON: SMITH, CLAIRE; CONE, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1997



425 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Rubin Warns of Asia Trade Backlash

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Sept. 20

 BODY:
With economic troubles in Southeast Asia and Japan and China's exports booming, Administration officials meeting with finance ministers from around the world said today that they feared the United States was headed toward a revival of huge trade deficits with Asia that could provoke a backlash in Congress.
Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin met with his Japanese counterpart, Hiroshi Mitsuzuka, in a session that one Japanese official described as "quiet but very tense." Mr. Rubin urged him to make sure that Japan did not attempt to crawl out of its recession by boosting exports to the United States. 
 Yet Japanese executives concede that is already happening, and they say they have little choice now that their biggest market -- Southeast Asia -- is reeling from a summer-long currency crisis that is spreading to other nations.
"No one wants to admit it out loud," said one senior Japanese executive here for the annual meeting of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. "But now there is no place else that still has strong demand for Japanese goods except the U.S."
According to many estimates circulating here, Japan's surplus with the United States will exceed $65 billion this year, roughly a 20 percent increase from last year.
The sudden revival of trade deficits -- an issue on which President Clinton focused intently for the first three years of his presidency, then scarcely mentioned -- comes at a politically inopportune time for the White House. Mr. Clinton is battling in Congress for a renewal of his power to strike new trade accords around the world.
But he is running into strong opposition on both the Democratic left and the Republican right, much of it rooted in suspicions that American workers have gained far less from from the Administration's embrace of global competition than Mr. Clinton contends.
Moreover, Mr. Clinton is about to welcome China's President, Jiang Zimen, to the United States for the first state visit of a Chinese leader since before the 1989 Tiananmen Square massacre. With little progress to boast about on the human rights front, Mr. Clinton's aides had hoped to emphasize the foreign policy benefits of an expanding trade relationship with China.
That will now be difficult. Most American estimates now suggest that China's trade deficit with the United States will exceed $50 billion for the first time this year, making it nearly the size of Japan's.
Moreover, efforts to speed along negotiations to get China into the World Trade Organization -- which would require it to adopt rules that would further open the Chinese market -- have bogged down. Administration officials are now playing down the potential discussion of that subject at the Washington summit meeting.
"Wherever you look in Asia, America's trade numbers are about to go bonkers," said Kenneth Courtis, the global economist at Deutsche Bank in Tokyo. "And we are just beginning to see the political fallout."
Large trade deficits themselves are not necessarily bad news for the American economy. A steady stream of competitive imports helps keep inflation in check. America's soaring trade deficit numbers also reflect the fact that the United States has one of the healthiest economies in the world, while its trading partners are not growing fast enough to attract more imports.
But trade politics and trade economics are often two very different things. So today in his meeting with Mr. Mitsuzuka -- a longtime leader of the Liberal Democratic Party and a veteran of many trade disputes -- Mr. Rubin took the unusual step of inviting the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, to join him in arguing that Japan must act now to revive its economy.
Japan's usual response has been to launch major public works programs, but at one American official said recently, "There are only so many roads and train tracks you can build to nowhere. And they've built them.'
Mr. Rubin said later that he thought that his message had gotten through. "It is fair to say that they, too, are concerned about domestic demand and sustainable, solid growth," he said. But he stopped short of saying that he had urged Japan to cut taxes.
The trade problem has been exacerbated by the currency crisis in Southeast Asia. Those emerging markets have been a major customer for American exports. But Thailand, Malaysia and Indonesia are now canceling major projects, including dams and airports, to trim their own large deficits.
They also have been forced to devalue their currencies, making their goods more competitive on world markets and American goods, priced in dollars, sharply more expensive. Equally important, Southeast Asia accounts for slightly less than half of Japan's exports, and some of those goods will undoubtedly be redirected to the United States.
In the currency markets, this has led to some speculation that the United States would attempt to weaken the dollar, to make American goods more attractive abroad.
But Mr. Rubin has given no hint of that and today at a meeting of finance ministers of the Group of Seven top industrial nations, there was a veiled warning to Japan not to try to drive down the yen to boost its own exports.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 22, 1997, Monday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the meeting of finance ministers in Hong Kong misspelled the given name of the President of China. He is Jiang Zemin, not Jiang Zimen.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Britain's Chancellor of the Exchequer, Gordon Brown, talked yesterday with the Treasury Secretary, Robert E. Rubin, and the Finance Minister of Japan, Hiroshi Mitsuzuka, at a meeting in Hong Kong. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (97%); ASIA (95%); JAPAN (95%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (93%); HONG KONG (92%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (97%); ASIA (95%); JAPAN (95%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (93%); HONG KONG (92%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); RECESSION (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); EXPORT PROMOTION (73%); CURRENCIES (72%); TRENDS (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: RUBIN, ROBERT E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (79%); GORDON BROWN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1997



426 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1704 words

HEADLINE: SPENDING IT;
Here's One Way You Can Beat the Bursar

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON 

 BODY:
WHEN Timothy Radle entered Ohio State University in 1994, his parents were not concerned about college tuition or how much it might climb while he was there.
For three years, they had been contributing money to Ohio's prepaid tuition plan, which helped them save for college and locked in the price of tuition even before their son became a freshman. 
 "This took much of the guesswork out of college tuition," said Donald Radle, Timothy's father. "For us this has worked out very well."
More and more states -- with New York, New Jersey and Connecticut among the most recent -- are joining Ohio in encouraging people to save for a college education. The New York plan was signed into law this month, but the details of how it will operate are still being worked out, state officials say. And when New York and other states finish devising their plans, they will market them aggressively.
One of the main types of state college savings programs is the prepaid tuition plan, which allows families to put up money before a child is ready for college, and to lock in the tuition in effect when they invest their money.
If tuition rises by the time the child goes to college, the money invested in the prepaid plans will rise a comparable amount.
If, for example, tuition costs $1,000 a semester when a family puts its money into a prepaid plan, but rises to $1,500 a semester when a student begins college, the prepaid plan will cover the full amount. If the family prepays less than the full amount, it may have to pay some tuition at the rate in effect when the student is in college.
Although the specifics vary, most states base their rates on the cost of tuition at public colleges or universities within those states, although they may allow families to spend the money at any college anywhere.
The other main type of program is a college savings plan, which allows families to invest their money in state-sponsored accounts whose earnings are sheltered from Federal taxes until used for college and are typically not subject to state taxes. In most of these programs, families are subject to the vagaries of the markets the money is invested in, which means that families have no guarantee that their money will grow as fast as tuition -- or at all, although it may also grow faster.
In both types of programs, the beneficiary college student typically is not expected to pay any taxes on the gain in value until the money is used for college, and then at the student's rate rather than the donor's.
Most states forgive the state taxes altogether. Most, but not all, specify that the beneficiary be a resident of the state, although the contributors do not need to be. And most states welcome contributions from anyone willing to make them, but some limit the size of contributions per beneficiary.
Before this year, fewer than a dozen states offered either plan, according to the College Savings Plans Network. Twenty-eight states, including New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Wisconsin and Indiana, have started programs this year or expect to have them running by next year.
"We've seen a huge surge of interest by states," said Katherine Tyson, a researcher for the National Association of State Treasurers.
Financial experts say these plans can be a bargain for families planning to send someone to college.
"With the escalating cost of college, this is the way to be able to afford it," said H. Carl McCall, the Comptroller of New York State. "Every person who thinks about being able to afford a college education for his or her child should think about it."
But some experts give the programs more mixed reviews as public policy because the tax breaks that make the savings plans attractive are likely to be less useful to lower-income families than to people in the upper tax brackets and because states with prepaid tuition plans could be forced to pay big bills if tuition prices shoot up.
"It could bring families some peace of mind," said Arthur Hauptman, a higher-education finance consultant in Washington. "But the fact that families can prepay tuition now and not face the risk of rising tuition suggests that states could have problems later."
IT is small wonder that states are leaping to start college savings programs. States pay a big portion of the cost of higher education, through direct subsidies to state colleges and financial aid. If families can pay more tuition themselves, the pressure on state treasuries may be reduced.
Paying for college is a big concern for many families, too. Although the average tuition for state residents at public four-year colleges and universities was only $2,681 a year in 1995 -- well below the $20,000-plus price tag at the Ivy League and many other private colleges -- that is still a burden for many families.
"I don't care whose poll you look at, it seems like this is on families' minds," said Barbara M. Jennings, executive director of the Ohio Tuition Trust Authority and chairwoman of the College Savings Plans Network, an affiliate of the National Association of State Treasurers.
A national survey in 1996 of 1,938 registered voters by Princeton Survey Research Associates for the Pew Research Center, for example, found that nearly two-thirds said they were very concerned or somewhat concerned about being unable to save enough money to put a child through college.
To deal with these concerns -- and with the growing number of state tuition plans -- Congress enacted rules governing state plans last year and expanded them this year. The new Federal regulations specifically allow for accounts to be used to pay for room and board as well as tuition and books. If the money in the account is used for anything other than higher education, it will be subject to a penalty. But the state tuition plans typically allow the money to be used for graduate school as well as college, and to be shifted from the intended beneficiary to relatives.
Separately this summer, Congress also created a new "education I.R.A.," which starts in 1998 and is modeled after the traditional I.R.A. While the money that is invested is not deductible for income-tax purposes, the earnings on the investments will not be taxed until the money is withdrawn to pay for college.
No more than $500 a year can be placed in the I.R.A. There are also income limitations on who may invest in an education I.R.A.; the program phases out for families earning $150,000 or more a year.
The new Federal legislation prompted many states without college savings plans to establish them. Each state is free to develop its own guidelines, subject to these Federal rules. The states can set limits on contributions, the penalties for using the money for something other than higher education, fees for managing these accounts and rules on who can contribute and whether the money can be used out of state or at private colleges.
The College Plan Savings Network offers information about tuition savings programs, what individual states do, and how to find more information at a clearinghouse on the Internet at www.collegesavings.org. The group can be reached by phone at (606) 244-8175. Other sources of information include the state treasurers' offices and financial advisers.
The newer programs tend to offer more flexibility than some older ones. Mr. McCall, the New York Comptroller, said the aim in designing the New York program was flexibility; while many of the specifics are not yet established by the state, he said he hoped to have the program in operation by next year.
Contributions of up to $5,000 a year will be allowed (though the state has not yet decided whether to apply the limit to each beneficiary or to each person contributing to such an account), up to a maximum of $100,000. Withdrawal for college will be allowed after three years.
Connecticut, which is starting a College Savings Program this fall, will allow people to invest as much money as they think college might cost and set up a college fund through local banks. Contributors will be allowed to choose the investment strategy they want, though the money will be managed for them, said Patrick O'Neil, communications director for Treasurer Paul J. Silvester.
Indiana, which is starting its savings plan program this week, is allowing people to contribute money through payroll deductions, automatic withdrawals from bank accounts, or through deposits by mail or in person. People will be allowed to deposit up to $9,100 each year, since that is currently the average tuition in Indiana. But the state is also allowing one-time lump-sum deposits of up to $25,000 for each account.
Joyce Brinkman, the Indiana Treasurer, acknowledges that the accounts, which will be in a balanced portfolio run by professional money managers, carry some risk if financial markets fall.
But, she said: "There is absolutely nothing you do that doesn't include risk. If you just go with a passbook savings account, the sure thing is that you are going to lose money because of inflation."
FINANCIAL advisers say parents and grandparents and others who are thinking of using the college accounts should look carefully at the rules within their states.
Whether the programs make sense for them may depend partly on their incomes. Tax advantages -- the deferral of Federal taxes and the deferral or forgiveness of state taxes on the earnings on the accounts -- are more valuable to people in higher tax brackets. People with lower incomes may be less able to save money and more concerned about being able to reach the money in a financial pinch.
Families should also determine whether the state rules are broad enough to accommodate a choice of college. Some programs, especially some of the earlier ones, are more restrictive, though many of the new ones allow the money to be used anywhere. New Jersey, which adopted legislation this month for college savings trust accounts, offers participants broad portability, but also provides $500 bonuses to state residents if they attend college in the state.
"The more flexible they are, the more people will participate," said Michael A. Olivas, a professor of law at the University of Houston, who has studied these plans.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 28, 1997, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about state plans for saving for college tuition misstated a rule governing the new Federal education I.R.A.'s. Provided the money is used for college expenses, earnings on these accounts will not be subject to Federal taxes when withdrawn.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "Which States Have College Savings Plans"
States with college savings plans currently in effect, those with pending plans that will come into effect by January 2000 and those states with no current or near-term plans.
 
Chart: "How a Plan Worked for One Family"
The Radle family decided in 1990 to use the Ohio Tuition Trust Authority's prepayment plan to save for their son Timothy's education at Ohio State University. Under the plan, the Radles bought credits periodically from 1990 to 1992 as their budget permitted.
 
Paying In
Timothy would need 400 credits for a four-year degree at Ohio State. His parents bought the credits over three school years, paying a price per credit based on the current tuition at Ohio State each year.
 
Drawing Out
Timothy enrolled in 1994 and used the prepaid credits to cover the costs of classes he took. Thanks to a scholarship, he will have some credits left over when he graduates next spring, which can be used for other family members' schooling or refunded. (A refund would be taxable.)
 
If the Radles had instead put the money in a taxable investment earning 8 percent a year on the same schedule, it would have yielded only $16,800 to spend on Timothy's schooling when he enrolled. (Source: National Association of State Treasurers (states' plans))
(Source: National Association of State Treasuries (state's plans))

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (94%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (94%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF STATE TREASURERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (94%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (94%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF STATE TREASURERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); OHIO, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; STATES (US); FINANCES; TUITION TUITION FEES (94%); PERSONAL FINANCE (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); EDUCATIONAL SAVINGS PLANS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); FAMILY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (69%); 

PERSON: ARENSON, KAREN W

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1997



427 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 13; Page 1; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2944 words

HEADLINE: The Lobbyist;
Is Richard Lipsky Battling for the Little Guy? Or Is He Just Gumming Up the Works

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN 

 BODY:
THE hallelujahs from City Hall and the State Capitol were almost audible. After years of bitter contention over whether to build a new Pathmark supermarket in East Harlem, Mayor Giuliani and Gov. George E. Pataki were scheduled to break ground at the 125th Street site in late August.
But just days before the scheduled ceremony, a memo arrived in the Governor's office, warning that the East Harlem mid-sized supermarket owners who had fought the megastore were considering protesting at the groundbreaking. 
 With the potential for embarrassment looming, the Governor's people scrambled. They hastily arranged a meeting between some of the supermarket owners; Joseph Del Sindaco, the chief operating officer of the Empire State Development Corporation, the state's economic arm; and the East Harlem merchants' longtime lobbyist, Richard J. Lipsky. Mr. Lipsky had made a name, and quite a few enemies, fighting Pathmark like a pit bull. He had also written the memo.
In the meeting, according to several participants, the store owners reiterated demands that they be given equal access to low-interest capital and to proposed megastore sites. Mr. Del Sindaco asked for more specific proposals and made assurances they would be taken seriously. The results were perhaps symbolic -- a place at the table when future developments particularly a site at 145th Street, are discussed -- but that was enough. "The store owners were satisfied that the Governor was making a commitment to help them," Mr. Lipsky said.
A few days later, the Pathmark groundbreaking was held -- without protests. The maneuver -- a friendly heads-up hinting at hardball -- was classic Lipsky: bring the fear of God into politicians by demonstrating the reality, or creating the illusion, of community opposition. In a political culture saturated with paid advocates, that tactic sets Mr. Lipsky apart: while he does traditional lobbying in City Hall, and while he greases palms -- legally -- with campaign contributions, much of his work involves bringing the people into the process. It is an approach getting a frequent workout, to judge by how often the lobbyist is surfacing, Zelig-like, in neighborhood development battles across the city.
In Mr. Lipsky, Howard J. Rubenstein, the public relations executive, meets the late Saul Alinsky, the radical community organizer. "Elected officials talk about the democratic process, and make a big deal about people participating," he said. "But they would rather people just participate by voting and leave the serious business of governing to elected officials."
But Mr. Lipsky's critics say he is more demagogue than democrat, that he churns tensions by distorting facts and appealing to ethnic rivalries. They say he fans the fires of fear to create smoke that obscures the issue at hand. That issue, they say, is always open to negotiation. "He'll work for whoever pays him," said Kathy Goldman, the founder of the Community Food Resource Center, a nonprofit group that supported the Pathmark. "I don't know where principle ends and expedience starts when you do that."
This is the conundrum of Richard Lipsky: As a hired gun with a grass-roots bent, is he giving a voice to those ignored by a system that favors the monied and powerful -- or is he gumming up the works?
That question will keep arising, because Pathmark redux is playing in neighborhoods across New York. Arguing that suburban superstores are draining city dollars, Mayor Giuliani has made plain his affinity for megastore developers. The number of such stores is growing, despite the city's labrynthine zoning laws and protracted approval processes. The Mayor wants to change the scale of the city, but many residents and small businessmen do not. The merchants fear the competition; the residents fear traffic, pollution and the corrosion of their neighborhoods' characters. So the heat in local politics is increasingly generated by clashes between communities, developers and politicians over Pathmarks, Home Depots and other large chains. Enter Mr. Lipsky, who pays many of his bills with that heat.
Mr. Lipsky has become the champion of small merchants threatened by the spread of "mega" -- megastores, megamalls, pro-mega zoning. His record in stopping megastore developments is mixed, but no one denies his skill at delaying them.
 
The Profitable Niche of a Gadfly
 Given lobbyists' reputations as the handmaidens of the powerful, the notion of a populist lobbyist may seem a contradiction in terms. But in some ways, that is just what Mr. Lipsky is: he harnesses community sentiment to champion the interests of small businesses and homeowners -- New York's middle class -- against corporate and political power.
"What comes out of the 1960's for me is skepticism concerning government," said Mr. Lipsky, 50, who grew up in a liberal Upper West Side home. "Government needs gadflies."
Being a gadfly has become a profitable niche for the former political science professor, who made the transition from studying the system to maneuvering it in 1981, when he was hired to head a labor-industry coalition fighting a bottle bill. (He lost.) Last year he took home over $200,000 in lobbying fees, plus more for public relations work.
Mr. Lipsky has not built his career on charisma. He looks unremarkable: flat brown hair; a graying mustache; plain, well-pressed dark suits and white shirts; undistinguished features.
But when he opens his mouth, it becomes apparent that Mr. Lipsky, the son of a theatrical press agent, has the gift of gab, and it keeps on giving. To spend time with him is to alternately endure and enjoy a virtually uninterrupted stream of strategy, spin, political theory, moral and legal argument, and analysis -- of self and others -- spiced with the occasional Yiddish phrase. He will segue from a sports analogy -- "The people get emotionally invested in who wins and loses, but at the end of the game, someone else is counting the receipts" -- to arguing that Machiavelli was misunderstood, too: "He wrote 'The Prince' to educate people how policy works, and it got him a bad rap."
Mr. Lipsky's verbosity occasionally misfires. The City Planning Commissioner, Joseph B. Rose, hasn't spoken to the lobbyist since he told a newspaper columnist that Mr. Rose shouldn't oversee city planning because his father is a major New York City developer -- a major faux pas, since so much of Mr. Lipsky's work is in Mr. Rose's orbit.
But more often, Mr. Lipsky's way with words works well. Whether in public meetings or political or press tete-a-tetes, he is persuasive -- "articulate" is the adjective used second most often to describe him. ("Persistent" is the first.)
Mr. Lipsky opens doors the traditional way: he occasionally gives contributions, but more often bundles them for his clients. He estimates that the small businesses he represents gave anywhere from $150,000 to $200,000 to the City Council over the four-year rezoning fight, helping to insure his access to the Council. The Governor returns his calls because Mr. Lipsky supported his underdog campaign for State Senate in 1992. (The Mayor most definitely does not take his calls: the two are on opposite sides of almost every issue.)
But a good lobbyist has something to offer, as well as something he wants, when he gets inside. Mr. Lipsky offers information -- a lot of it.
"He has more expertise on the zoning system than I do and I'm a lawyer and he's not," said Howard Tisch, president of the Metropolitan Food Council, an association of 800 independent supermarkets.
June Eisland, the chairwoman of the council's Land Use Committee, a key figure in megastore fights, said, "He backs up conversations with a paper trail, so there's something you can read and remember."
Mr. Lipsky takes a similar approach with the news media. The press is his megaphone, and he understands the importance of being useful to reporters. "He is always filled with facts, figures, numbers" and story ideas and angles, said Philip Lentz, the editor of The Crain's Insider, a daily faxed newsletter on "government action of importance to business" that is watched closely by political and business people.
Over the last few years, Mr. Lipsky has begun taking his knowledge, his sophistication, to a novel audience, offering it free to grass-roots groups and neighborhood associations around the city. Midway through the four-year fight against the Mayor's plan to rezone the city to allow megastores up to 200,000 square feet in manufacturing zones, for example, Mr. Lipsky began contacting community groups opposed to the legislation and offering to help.
"He had information we needed when we needed it," recalled Patricia Dolan, the vice-president of the Queens Civic Congress, a grass-roots group. He would, for example, provide her group with environmental information he had extracted from a recalcitrant City Planning Commission. He would advise community groups when to speak out, and get them press coverage when they did.
To say Mr. Lipsky was motivated by altruism would be a stretch. He openly concedes that he shifted to rallying community opposition to the proposal when he realized that the concerns of his patrons -- small businesses -- were no longer moving policy makers. Allying with grass-roots advocates allows him to make his clients' private cause a matter of the public's interest. "For small businesses," he said, "the only way to get political and press attention is to get the community involved."
Mr. Lipsky cannot be credited with stopping the rezoning proposal; it died last December, when the Mayor and the Council failed to agree on what new powers to give the Council in return for those it would abdicate under the Mayor's plan.
But in the final weeks of the fight, Mr. Lipsky seemed omnipresent at City Hall, reminding Council members that they would lose one of the few powers granted to them by the City Charter if they gave up the right to approve megastores. And just as community opposition gave him cover, he said, it gave the Council a less self-interested reason to vote down the proposal.
Now he is using the same strategy for the city's small garbage haulers, who feel threatened by the Mayor's war against the mobsters among them and by his affection for garbage-hauling giants. Mr. Lipsky has graciously offered his assistance to a Brooklyn community group, Neighbors Against Garbage, which is fighting an attempt by USA Waste to expand a waste transfer station in Williamsburg. His hope, he said, is to inspire the group to pressure public officials to give "the big guys" like USA Waste and Waste Management of New York the same scrutiny his clients have received.
Mr. Lipsky's supporters say he is giving communities the courage and know-how to take on the fat cats and the politicos who genuflect before them. But those who have been on the opposing side of Mr. Lipsky's community work describe it as disingenuous and polarizing. Mr. Lipksy is definitely a graduate of the "you can't make an omelet without breaking eggs" school of lobbying, and on occasion, he seems to have poorly chosen which eggs to break.
In the East Harlem battle, he has been charged with using race as an issue. "He was particularly skillful in recognizing that the developers were African-American and the principal store owners were Hispanic," said Karen Phillips, the chief executive of the Abyssinian Development Corporation, a partner in the Pathmark project. "He used that very wisely as a divisive tool and a scare tactic. He made them think we were invading the neighborhood and putting them out of business."
In fact, much of the focus on race came from Councilman Antonio Pagan, who vociferously opposed the East Harlem Pathmark, although it is not in his district. But Mr. Pagan and Mr. Lipsky are close allies, and Mr. Lipsky, who is white, has trafficked in ethnic politics before: when he was representing independent beer distributors against Anheuser-Busch, he accused the beer behemoth of being anti-Hispanic, because many of his clients were Puerto Rican.
Mr. Lipsky's tactics in East Harlem helped cost him at least one client, Krasdale Foods, the large wholesaler that supplies many small stores and covertly financed Mr. Lipsky's campaign against the megastore proposal. "To make it into African-American versus Hispanic -- we wanted no part of that," said Krasdale's general counsel, Raymond Thek, who also cited Mr. Lipsky's reputation as an obstructionist as a reason for the parting of ways.
While saying charges that he is a racial polarizer sting, Mr. Lipsky continued to invoke notions of ethnic solidarity this summer as he tried to defeat Councilman Guillermo Linares of Washington Heights, whose last-minute switch to support the Pathmark project enabled its advancement and earned Mr. Lipsky's undying enmity.
"I do not think an African-American would do that to his own people," the lobbyist said of Mr. Linares, New York City's first Dominican-American elected official. "If we can defeat him, it sends a powerful message that there is a price to be paid for going against your own people."
Mr. Lipsky spared no chance to deride Mr. Linares to anyone who would listen. Just before the Sept. 9 Democratic primary, he publicized and joined a rally by Hispanic merchants outside the Councilman's Bronx office. "It was fun," he gloated afterward. "We boxed him into his office."
Six days later, Guillermo Linares won re-election resoundingly, beating Mr. Lipsky's candidate, Roberto Lizardo, by a margin of 64 percent of the vote to 27 percent, and leaving Mr. Lipsky with a powerful, entrenched enemy on the Council. Mr. Linares called Mr. Lipsky a "paid hack, paid by interests that have little respect and regard for the common interest of our community" and "the epitome of the worst kind of lobbyist you can hope to encounter."
Mr. Linares's victory suggests that East Harlem seemed to want to reward, not rebuke, the Councilman for supporting Pathmark, which in turn suggests that perhaps Mr. Lipsky was wrong when he said the community did not need a new supermarket. That, critics say, is the danger when a paid protagonist pretends to represent a community's interests.
But even his electoral defeat by proxy has not slowed Mr. Lipsky's ethnic politicking. In the ever-changing constellation of organizations and associations that Mr. Lipsky represents and heads, there is now the Puerto Rican-Asian-Hispanic Development Corporation, an economic development initiative aimed at mid-sized supermarket owners and the food industry. Mr. Lipsky is president and executive director.
The corporation's name already has raised eyebrows. Some state economic development officials call it a poor choice, showing Mr. Lipsky's insensitivity.
But if state officials find Mr. Lipsky's approachrepugnant, they have an odd way of showing it: they have agreed to give the corporation $150,000 for training and a study on the needs of mid-sized supermarkets.
The grant shows that persistence pays off. Indeed, critics, clients, community organizers and politicians agree that he is a formidable lobbyist. "I think Richard Lipsky is one of the best lobbyists in the city of New York," Ms. Phillips of the Abyssinian Development Corporation said.
 
A Storeowner Watches A Dream Die
 But even Mr. Lipsky's tenaciousness may not be able to halt the inexorable march of mega. The City Council is now readying a modified version of the Mayor's rezoning proposal and residents may dislike the prospect of megastores, but they do not seem to dislike shopping at them.
On McDonald Avenue in Borough Park, shoppers are streaming to a new 65,000-square-foot Shop Rite, while down the street, Edward Young Lee is watching his dream drain away. In the three weeks since Shop Rite opened, the Korean immigrant's much smaller Met Food store, built on 20 years of saving, has lost 75 percent of its business. "Shop Rite are murderers without a gun," he said, his eyes filling with tears.
Mr. Lipsky argues he does not want to protect store owners like Mr. Lee from competition: he simply wants to level the playing field. He said Shop Rite had bypassed community review, then obtained a temporary certificate of occupancy despite a Department of Buildings ruling that it was violating zoning regulations. Mr. Lipsky claims Councilman Noach Dear intervened with the Department of Buildings, to which Mr. Dear responds: "I've been a big advocate for that Shop Rite. All I did is show my support; whatever the city interprets that support to mean is their decision."
What it means for Mr. Lipsky is an uphill battle. He has organized protests by merchants outside the Shop Rite, and called for Council hearings about the store, but neither politicians nor residents are biting. Shop Rite, it appears, is there to stay.
The coming weeks will tell whether Mr. Lee hangs on, but it seems certain Mr. Lipsky will, continuing the often lonely, troll for business that the lobbying life demands. Mr. Lipsky is well aware that his relationships are built not on love and loyalty, but on usefulness. "No one is going to pay just for the pleasure of watching me irritate everybody," he said.
And so while Mr. Lipsky believes in defending little against big, the underdog against the insider, he is, first, a businessman. If the ship of small sinks in New York, it is unlikely he will go down with it. Would he work for a megachain like Pathmark (as he once offered to do for Fairway Market)?
"I'll remain pure until I face that moral dilemma," the lobbyist answered. "They haven't asked."

CORRECTION-DATE: October 5, 1997, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sept. 21 about Richard Lipsky, a lobbyist, misidentified the employer of Raymond Thek, who was speaking on behalf of a former Lipsky client, Krasdale Foods. Mr. Thek is general counsel of Alpha I Marketing Corporation, an independent company that serves stores supplied by Krasdale. He does not work for Krasdale.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard Lipksy, outside his latest nemesis, the Shop Rite in Borough Park, Brooklyn. Machiavelli got a raw deal, he says. (Catrina Genovese for The New York Times)(pg. 1); BATTLES PAST AND PRESENT -- At left, joining a protest in the late 1980's against the state bottle law. Below, speaking this month at a community meeting in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, about a waste transfer station. (William Lopez for The New York Times)(pg. 12)
 
Charts: "Lipsky's Laws: How To Fight A Megastore"
-- Sometimes you win just by drawing the process out.
-- "If you're dealing with smaller less well-heeled clients, you need to raise public issues so that people will want to take credit for helping you."
-- "You can't just support ideologically pure candidates because generally they have no power. If someone has juice, supported you on some issues and has the Mayor's ear, you go with him." (pg. 1)
 
"PRESSURE AND POLITICS -- A Lobbyist and His Battles"
A Partial List of Mr. Lipsky's Lobbying and Public Relations Clients
 
CLIENT: Small Business Congress
ISSUES: Besides fighting megastores, such as the Shop-Rite on McDonald Avenue, Mr. Lipsky works on regulatory reform for the Congress, a coalition of small business associations. That includes issues such as challenging the tobacco advertising ban, which he argues affects small stores disproportionately, and fighting for fairness in the levying of fines on small businesses.
 
CLIENT: Neighborhood Small Business Association:
ISSUES: Mr. Lipsky is the executive director of this 70-member group, which is devoted exclusively to megastore policy and specific megastore fights. Under its auspices, Mr. Lipsky is helping community groups fight the 17-megastore Brooklyn Junction mall that the developer Charles Katz wants to build in Bay Ridge.
 
CLIENT: United Food and Commercial Workers
ISSUE: The union hired Mr. Lipsky to increase its political profile, and to help it fight -- or at least water down -- City Council legislation to curb mob influence at the city's public markets. At Mr. Lipsky's advice, the union secured the support -- and political clout -- of the AFL-CIO's Central Labor Council to fight the bill, and got union members to make their presence known in council members' districts. The bill was modified, but now Mr. Lipsky is helping the union fight regulations for the markets that it claims are more punitive than the legislation agreed to.
 
CLIENT: Sanitation and Recycling Industry
ISSUE: Mr. Lipsky is doing public relations work for this association of small garbage haulers, who feel that the Mayor is trying to squeeze them out of the industry to make way for national corporations such as Waste Management Inc. Mr. Lipsky's task is to try to get "more balanced press coverage on trade waste issues."
 
CLIENT: Ambassador Ambulance Co.
ISSUE: Mr. Lipsky went to the governor and the media to pressure the Regional Emergency Medical Services Council to grant a license to Ambassador, after it had been twice denied. He also helped the company get a New York City license to operate.
 
CLIENT: Jetro Cash & Carry
ISSUE: Among other things, this food wholesaler hired Mr. Lipsky to protest a provision in the changeover to electronic food stamps. As first proposed, the state plans would have required the mom-and-pop stores and bodegas to purchase the equipment needed for electronic benefits transfers. Arguing that that would be unduly burdensome, Mr. Lipsky succeeded in getting the equipment provided as a right; the plan is now being challenged in court for other reasons. (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (70%); AFL-CIO (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS CITIES (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (75%); EXECUTIVES (69%); POLITICS (68%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (62%); 

PERSON: LIPSKY, RICHARD; WALDMAN, AMY RUDY GIULIANI (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1997



428 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1997

SECTION: Section E; Page 8; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
'You Can't Take It With You,' Featuring Hippies

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER LEHMANN-HAUPT 

 BODY:

CALIFORNIA'S OVER
By Louis B. Jones
329 pages. Pantheon. $24.
 "All this was 1973," reports the narrator of Louis B. Jones's psychedelically tragicomic new novel, "California's Over," about the disintegration of a hippie family living at the Pacific edge of Marin County.
The narrator, a 17-year-old idealist who has taken the peculiar name of Baelthon "in a literary impulse," is recalling a brief interval when he hired himself out to help dismantle everything in the incredibly cluttered house belonging to the Farmicans. 
 "Everything?" Baelthon asks Julia, the sexy mother of the house, whose husband, the poet James Farmican, author of "The Green Conquistador," "Anabasis" and "Begin Here," has recently shot himself.
"Everything," replies Julia, "the whole house, all four stories. Seven days from now, there will be absolutely nothing. We're moving to Oregon."
"You're moving?"
"Everybody knows California's over."
The Farmicans are like the characters in the play "You Can't Take It With You" gone to pot and other mind-bending substances. Nineteen-year-old Peter, determined to match the supposed fame of his father, is writing an opera about the cannibalism at Donner Pass. ("And the members of the Donner Family would stagger over the set in bloody rags, delivering his poetry as songs, while swinging a severed leg or an elbow joint.")
Sixteen-year-old Wendy is obsessed with burying the ashes of her father, which she has found in a box labeled "McGuffin," the name of the funeral parlor, and switched to an empty Tang jar for safekeeping. Their mother, Julia, has taken up with Faro Ness, a rich Ivy League-educated psychotherapist who plans to start a community in Oregon that transcends materialism.
"This was a time, and a place, when people's motives for doing things weren't economic," remarks Baelthon, whose real name turns out to be Steve and who is trying to overcome his origins as an ordinary person from Kaseburg, Wisc.
Except that it isn't such a time at all. Once again, as he did in his highly entertaining two previous novels, "Ordinary Money" and "Particles and Luck," Mr. Jones is exploring the paradoxes of American culture, where commercialism so often underlies idealism and vice versa.
On the same day that Baelthon shows up at the Farmican house, so does a 24-year-old man formerly named Ed Pease who has recently learned he is really a Farmican. "It's you," says Julia, his mother, when Ed arrives. "How marvelous, I can't believe it." As she explains to Peter about his long-lost older brother: "Your father and I abandoned him back in the bad old days, when I was just too self-centered and wild and I would have made a terrible mother anyway I was such a slut. But now he's forgiven us! He's come back to us! This is Edward! Edward, Male, Live birth!"
The reason Ed has returned is that he has received a letter from a lawyer promising him that he has inherited one-third of a Nevada gambling casino called the Cornucopia that the late James Farmican won in a poker game. Ed is determined to find the Cornucopia and get it running again. He wants Peter and Wendy to join him. Faro, Julia's lover, opposes this plan because he would prefer them all to help him pull off the tax scam that underlies his Oregon commune.
Mr. Jones is good at painting these characters with his looping prose. Of Faro Ness he writes: "His huge complex of family businesses, and the meshing of its gears with other gears, which in turn meshed with the distant machinery of an axiomatic foreign war, was operated and lubricated by lawyers, so he remained obviously free to lead the life of an intellectual, hands in pockets, his benign teacherly stoop, fern-like, defining the base-curve of a greater arc of protectiveness. He was decently ashamed of all his wealth, and then even subversive of it."
Yet it's often hard to tell whether the author is affectionately kidding his characters or savagely skewering them. Whatever his intentions, the people in the novel come off varyingly repugnant. Julia is a parody of permissiveness. Faro tries to seduce Wendy with her tacit encouragement. Peter becomes a cocaine and gambling addict. And Baelthon winds up a cynical failure correcting papers for a living. There is no one among them with whom to feel the slightest identity, with the possible exception of Ed, who succeeds in business despite the failure of his Cornucopia mission and is rebuilt "as a permanently happy, generous man."
More puzzlingly, Mr. Jones unfolds his plot in a way that seems self-defeating. We know from almost the start that Baelthon and the three Farmican children will travel to Nevada and learn that their casino is all but nonexistent. In the story's only compelling episode, Wendy gets pregnant by Baelthon and falls into the clutches of a Christian card shark who saves her from the sin of an abortion by forcing her into prostitution.
But these scenes turn out to be a flash-forward, and the story returns to the Farmican home to debate questions to which we already know the book's answers.
"There are various realities," says the radical-chic Faro, trying to talk Ed out of going to Nevada. "There isn't just one over-arching reality. A lot of our economic reality is truly based on war and racism and sexism and injustice and a class system. That's what you're going out into. That's what you'll be cooperating with."
"Yup," says Ed.
Yup, echoes the reader, trying to suppress a yawn.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Louis B. Jones (Brett Hall/Pantheon Books)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: CALIFORNIA'S OVER (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: I CAN'T BELIEVE IT'S YOGURT (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); LITERATURE (90%); POETRY (76%); THEATER & DRAMA (72%); 

PERSON: JONES, LOUIS B; LEHMANN-HAUPT, CHRISTOPHER MICHAEL MCMAHON (69%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1997



429 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Offerings Tentatively Set for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week included today's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and two-year and five-year notes being auctioned tomorrow and on Wednesday.
According to traders, at the close of the New York cash market on Friday the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was at 4.91 percent and the rate on the six-month issue at 5.05 percent. 
 In when-issued trading the two-year note was offered at a price to yield 5.78 percent, and the five-year note at 5.98 percent.
The following taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
 
TAXABLE
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Coho Energy Inc., $125 million of senior subordinated notes due in 2007, B2/B-/---. Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Co.
Grupo IMSA S.A. De C.V., $150 million of senior notes due in 2004, Ba3/---/---. Citicorp.
Highwoods Properties, four million shares at $25 perpetual preferred, Baa3/BBB-/---. Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Co.
Nextlink Communications Inc., $200 of senior notes due in 2007, B3/B/---. Salomon Brothers.
Stena A.B., $175 million of senior notes due on June 15, 2007, Ba2/BBB-/---. Chase Securities.
Source: MCM CorporateWatch
Ratings: Moody's Investors Service/Standard & Poor's Corp./Duff & Phelps Credit.
 
TAX EXEMPT
 
TUESDAY
Minnesota Public Facilities, $141.2 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
 
TAX EXEMPT
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
California Health Care Authority, $67.4 million of debt securities for Catholic Healthcare West. Paine Webber Inc.
California Health Facilities Authority, $110 million of debt securities for Cedars Sinai. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Connecticut Health & Educational Authority, $58 million of debt securities for Middlesex Hospital. Paine Webber Inc.
Dauphin County General Authority, $110 million of debt securities. Dolphin & Bradbury Inc.
Massachusetts Turnpike Authority, $1.3 billion of debt securities. Paine Webber Inc.
Middlesex County Utilities Authority, N.J., $56 million of sewer revenue refunding bonds. A. G. Edwards & Sons.
North Charleston, South Carolina, $70 million of certificates of participation. Robinson-Humphrey Co.
North Texas Tollway Authority, $125 million of debt securities for Dallas North Tollway. Smith Barney Inc.
Pima County, Ariz., $247 million of debt securities for Tucson Electric Power Company. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
San Francisco Airport, $105 million of debt securities. Smith Barney Inc.
Tennessee Housing, $88 million of debt securities. Smith Barney Inc.
Texas Health Resources, $700 million of debt securities for Presbyterian Health. Merrill Lynch & Co.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (94%); GS (NYSE) (84%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS335911 STORAGE BATTERY MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3691 STORAGE BATTERIES (69%); SIC3479 COATING, ENGRAVING, & ALLIED SERVICES, NEC (69%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (69%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (67%); NAICS517919 ALL OTHER TELECOMMUNICATIONS (67%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (67%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (67%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (66%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (66%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (61%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (61%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (76%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (72%); DALLAS, TX, USA (65%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (94%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); TERNIUM MEXICO SA DE CV (69%); COHO ENERGY INC (69%); STENA AB (67%); XO HOLDINGS INC (67%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (66%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (66%); DOLPHIN & BRADBURY INC (63%); ROBINSON-HUMPHREY CO INC (62%); TUCSON ELECTRIC POWER CO (61%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (54%); MIDDLESEX COUNTY UTILITIES AUTHORITY (52%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (76%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (72%); DALLAS, TX, USA (65%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS DEBT NOTES (92%); AUCTIONS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); DEBT FINANCING (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (89%); TAX LAW (88%); HEALTH CARE (86%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1997



430 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: Gore in Russia, Hoping to Be Cast in a Different Light

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 21

 BODY:
If Vice President Al Gore thought he would get away from questions about campaign finance once he had landed in Russia, he soon found out otherwise.
No sooner had Mr. Gore arrived at the Vnukovo airport in Moscow tonight than a Russian reporter asked him if the fund-raising allegations that had dogged him at home would hamper his effectiveness here. 
 Mr. Gore said with a smile that he was glad to see that Russia had a strong and free press. His official Russian hosts were less amused. They abruptly shut down the impromptu news conference.
Wrapping himself in the mantle of a diplomat, Mr. Gore began three days of meetings with Russia's top leaders on a lengthy list of issues ranging from plutonium production to oil agreements to religious freedom.
If Mr. Gore's aides are successful, it will also be a week of high-profile meetings and carefully scripted photo-ops, all intended to direct the spotlight away from the Vice President's political troubles and toward his role as a world statesman.
To be sure, Mr. Gore and the Russian Prime Minister, Viktor S. Chernomyrdin, have been holding these biannual sessions for years -- so many years that the talks are denoted with Roman numerals, like Hollywood sequels or Superbowl games. (This week's meeting is officially known as Gore-Chernomyrdin Commission IX, though the cognoscenti simply call it G.C.C.)
But this time the public relations team is pulling out all the stops.
There is, for example, "the walk in the woods." On Monday, Mr. Gore and Mr. Chernomyrdin will be driven to a lunch spot near a leafy sanitorium for the former Communist and present-day post-Communist elite. They will then stroll through the woods together before a "prepositioned pool" of photographers and television cameramen.
Mr. Gore will be the host of an unusual "media roundtable" with American reporters to discuss the intricacies of American-Russian relations. No Russian reporters are invited to this made-for-America event, which his aides hope will give the Vice President a chance to display his policy expertise.
Mr. Gore's team is also exploring a visit to a Moscow jazz club. That could help overcome the Vice President's wooden image, though it is not yet clear when it would be sandwiched into his crowded schedule.
American reporters complained earlier this year that they were locked out of a speech Mr. Gore gave to the American Chamber of Commerce in Tokyo. But under the new policy of maximum exposure, the news organizations have been invited to Mr. Gore's opening remarks to the American Chamber of Commerce here.
Mr. Gore's wife, Tipper, also has a busy public schedule. She will be meeting with characters from the Russian version of Sesame Street and visiting a Russian school that stresses teaching about the environment.
It would be wrong to think, however, that G.C.C. is all public relations. Each commission session is, in fact, a series of meetings involving American Cabinet-level officials, Russian ministers and seemingly hundreds of aides from both sides. The many issues that Mr. Gore and the Russians will discuss are complicated and often nettlesome.
The two sides, for example, plan to seal an accord requiring the Russians to alter nuclear reactors in Tomsk and Krasnoyarsk so that they no longer produce weapons-grade plutonium. The Russians had earlier promised to shut down the reactors, only to backtrack after concluding that they needed them to heat the Siberian cities.
The Americans also want the Russians to return to the Atomic Energy Ministry several American supercomputers acquired for Russia's nuclear program in circumvention of American export restrictions.
Mr. Gore plans to press the Russians to stop their scientists from helping Iran to develop new surface-to-surface missiles and to curtail nuclear cooperation.
The Russian Atomic Energy Minister, Viktor Mikhailov, proposed tonight that the United States and Russia jointly monitor the nuclear reactor that Russia is selling to the Iranians. But such a step would not address American concerns that the project would help Iran to develop its nuclear expertise and to acquire nuclear technology.
On the economic front, Mr. Gore is expected to try to help American companies that have become increasingly frustrated over breakdowns in their multi-billion dollar oil-production agreements with the Russians.
The Vice President will also press the Russian leadership to reject a bill that the Russian Parliament passed on Friday to protect the Russian Orthodox Church from competition with other Christian faiths. Persuading President Boris N. Yeltsin to block the law will be a herculean chore, since it closely resembles his own draft.
And that is not to mention discussions on space cooperation, a new tax code, the sale of Russian uranium, environmental issues, and the prospects for Russian ratification of the START II treaty reducing strategic nuclear arms and the international accord banning chemical weapons.
After the three days of talks, a meeting with Mr. Yeltsin and a news conference, Mr. Gore and Mr. Chernomyrdin are to leave on Wednesday for Samara, a Volga River city that is under the sway of economic reformers and that welcomes foreign investment.
For all of the time invested, previous Gore-Cheronomyrdin meetings have rarely produced dramatic results. Mr. Chernomyrdin is more of a status-quo figure than the dynamic free-market advocates in the Russian Government like Anatoly B. Chubais and Boris Nemtsov.
Nor have the meetings always enabled Mr. Gore to put his best foot forward. Mr. Gore had a awkward moment in 1994 when his meetings coincided with the Russian onslaught on Chechnya. Trying to avoid offending the Russian Government, Mr. Gore described the fighting as an internal Russian problem -- a stance that was soon superseded by Washington's anxiety over the brutal nature of the Russian attacks and the fate of civilians.
Still, United States officials say the meetings help keep communication channels open and provide a venue for hammering out agreements. Mr. Gore is also practiced in dealing with the Russians, which should enable him to avoid the tentative approach he was criticized for during his trip to China in March.
And while the Russians may not make many concessions, they seem willing to help Mr. Gore achieve a public relations success. "Our friendship on the personal level is very important," Mr. Chernomyrdin said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin of Russia greeted Vice President Al Gore yesterday at the Vnukovo airport in Moscow as Mr. Gore arrived for three days of talks on economic, security and scientific issues. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (51%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (51%); 

COMPANY: G C C JOINT PROGRAM PRODUCTION INSTITUTION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (51%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (51%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FINANCES; ETHICS; ELECTIONS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 ELECTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); NEWS REPORTING (77%); ETHICS (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (68%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (64%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (63%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (58%); RELIGION (54%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); GORDON, MICHAEL R; CHERNOMYRDIN, VIKTOR S (PRIME MIN) AL GORE (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1997



431 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 299 words

HEADLINE: George Champion, 93, Head Of Chase Manhattan in 1960's

 BODY:
George Champion, a former chairman of the Chase Manhattan Bank, died on Tuesday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 93.
Mr. Champion joined the Chase National Bank in New York as a second vice president in 1933, and he remained with the company until he retired in 1969. He was promoted to senior vice president in 1949 and chairman of the general loan committee in 1954. 
 In 1953, Mr. Champion was appointed head of Chase's domestic corporate banking division. When Chase merged with the Bank of the Manhattan Company in 1955, he was named an executive vice president of the new company.
Mr. Champion became president of the Chase Manhattan Bank in 1957 and chairman in 1961. According to a spokeswoman for Chase, the company's assets grew from $9.3 billion to $19.3 billion and its deposits from $8.1 billion to $16.7 billion while Mr. Champion was chairman.
After he retired, Mr. Champion served as chairman and president of the Economic Development Council of New York City, a private nonprofit organization, and as the chairman and chief executive of the New York Chamber of Commerce and Industry, formed in 1974 with the merger of the council and the chamber.
Mr. Champion was graduated from Dartmouth College in 1926 and worked at the National Bank of Commerce in New York before joining the Equitable Trust Company in 1929. He became assistant cashier when Equitable merged with Chase National Bank in 1930. After two years with the Canal Bank and Trust Company in New Orleans, Mr. Champion returned to the Chase National Bank in 1933.
He is survived by his wife, Eleanor, of Greenwich; a son, George Jr. of Key Largo, Fla.; a daughter, Emily Jean Knobloch of Atlanta; a sister, Sara C. Andrews of Urbana, Ill.; seven grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: Photo: George Champion (1974) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); BOCH (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (67%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (73%); FLORIDA, USA (68%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); EQUITABLE TRUST CO (67%); BANK OF COMMERCE HOLDINGS (58%); NEW YORK CHAMBER OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY (55%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (55%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CHAMBER OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY (55%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (55%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (73%); FLORIDA, USA (68%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); MERGERS (78%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); 

PERSON: CHAMPION, GEORGE

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1997



432 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: Stamford Would Like to Turn A Successful Mall Inside Out

BYLINE: By JANE FRITSCH 

DATELINE: STAMFORD, Conn., Sept. 21

 BODY:
When the Stamford Town Center opened here 15 years ago, it was seen as a marvel of urban renewal, the marble and concrete happy ending to a hard-fought battle against the decay and flight that had destroyed so many downtowns in cities across the country.
There is little question that the economic success of the mall has played an important role in the remarkable revival of Stamford's core. But as the city redefines itself for boom times, the hulking vertical mall is emerging as an impediment to Stamford's new vision of its downtown as a miniature Manhattan, full of color and street life day and night. 
 In many respects, it is the quintessential suburban mall set down in the middle of a city. It was used in "Scenes From a Mall," a 1991 dark comedy starring Woody Allen that takes place almost entirely in an enclosed world meant to resemble the Beverly Center on the west side of Los Angeles.
Constructed at the end of what is sometimes called the "urban fortress" era of downtown design, the Stamford mall is a windowless, self-contained world built largely above street level and with little connection to anything around it. Seemingly impenetrable to pedestrians, it is meant to be entered by car.
"Their challenge is to take that fortress and open it up to the street," said Sandy Goldstein, the executive director of the Stamford Downtown Special Services District. "It's a very separate, fortresslike entity."
Such monolithic structures, built in reaction to the urban decay of the 1960's, provided a feeling of personal safety, said Christopher P. Bruhl, the president of the Business Council of Southwestern Connecticut. "But it's a mall from a different era," he added. "People's tastes have changed."
Where safety had once been an overriding concern, a growing number of people are now seeking a feeling of community and a sense of place that the generic design of most malls cannot provide, planners said. And a lesson pounded home by several decades of vast urban renewal projects is that no downtown can survive without buoyant street life. "I'm sure Stamford would like to see more of a streetscape look," Mr. Bruhl said. "A question for the mall is, is there a reason to create more street-level ambience or not?"
The 900,000-square-foot mall has been a substantial success, weathering the recession of the 1980's and holding its own against its most formidable competition, the Westchester mall in White Plains, which opened in 1994. Both malls focus on affluent customers, Westchester with Neiman Marcus and Nordstrom as anchor stores, and Stamford with Saks Fifth Avenue, Macy's and, most recently, Filene's.
"We took our lumps," said Al Messer, the manager of the Stamford Town Center. Sales dropped about 10 to 15 percent for a brief time, he said, but most of the people came back.
Filene's, which replaced J. C. Penney three years ago, pushed the mall up another notch in its quest for upscale shoppers. And the management is constantly tinkering with the mix of smaller boutiques and chain stores to weed out those that fail to draw enough customers or generate sufficient sales.
"You really have to do well here or you're not going to make it," Mr. Messer said. The average lease for all but the anchor stores is seven years, he said, and many stores have three- or four-year leases with clauses that require remodeling halfway through to insure against shabbiness.
Mr. Messer said he is pleased with the current mix of stores, but acknowledged that one problem has bedeviled the management for years: the mall has no restaurant. On the top level, a number of fast-food outlets form a version of a food court, but none offer the table service that the mall's target clientele might expect.
Restaurant owners are reluctant to move in because there is no access to the outside when the mall is closed, he said. The mall was built so that only the anchor stores have entrances at the street level.
Recently, some tough competition has emerged from the retail districts in Greenwich, just to the southwest, and Westport, several towns to the northeast. Each has a district designed to be inviting to pedestrians, with restaurants, cafes, expensive shops and branches of national chain stores like the Gap and Williams Sonoma, all at street level.
"On a nice day, they have the ambience we don't have," Mr. Messer conceded. "But on a rainy day, we rub their noses in it."
Weather notwithstanding, Stamford's planners believe that the possibility of a leisurely stroll through town is the sort of thing that appeals to the professionals who are moving into several thousand luxury rental apartments under construction or recently completed in the downtown area. One such building completed this year, Avalon Grove, has a large landscaped courtyard, outdoor swimming pool, health club and rents that rival Manhattan's. Three-bedroom apartments begin at more than $3,000 a month. The complex has filled quickly, mostly with young professionals who are attracted to the budding street life and restaurants downtown.
But the building is less than a block from a corner of the mall that, to pedestrians, is one of the least inviting. It is Macy's 266,000-square-foot, three-level store, squatting like an airplane hangar over Broad Street, a main avenue on which planners have pinned much of their hope for pedestrian revival.
Macy's does have a pedestrian entrance on Broad Street, but it is hidden behind a concrete wall whose message seems to be "move along."
If the mall is to become more inviting to pedestrians, Macy's holds the key, said Ms. Goldstein, the director of the downtown district. It is unclear whether there is a practical way to alter the building to make it more inviting, she said, but removing the concrete wall would be a first step. "Macy's is going to have to come to the realization that it is in Macy's best interest," Ms. Goldstein said. The mall needs a vibrant downtown as much as the town needs the mall, she said.
Macy's has not been contacted about the matter by the Stamford officials and has not yet begun to consider alterations, said Mary Ann Shannon, a spokeswoman for Federated Department Stores, Macy's parent company. It is the prerogative of Macy's, not mall managers, to make structural changes to the Macy's building, mall officials said.
For several years, the mall managers have been working closely on community art programs and special events that tie the mall more closely to shops and restaurants in the rest of downtown.
"We know we cannot break down these walls," Ms. Goldstein said, "so we have to break down the walls metaphorically."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The 900,000-square-foot Stamford Town Center mall, built 15 years ago during the "urban fortress" era of downtown design, is windowless and self-contained. Only the anchor stores have entrances at street level. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (50%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: STAMFORD (CONN); UNITED STATES (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CITY LIFE (90%); SUBURBS (90%); CITIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (64%); RETAILERS (61%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (50%); AFFLUENT MARKET (50%); 

PERSON: FRITSCH, JANE WOODY ALLEN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1997



433 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA: BROADCASTING;
A new TV season, and executives fret about more than the latest cop show.

BYLINE: By Bill Carter 

 BODY:
FOR the network executives who program the prime-time schedules, the new television season that starts tonight is D-Day of sorts: A long-planned invasion whose coming is marked by feelings of giddy excitement and abject fear.
This year, the fear inside the landing boats is at an all-time high. Programmers always enter a season worried about the future of specific programs; but never before have so many of them entered a season so worried about the future of the entire business. 
 The list of concerns is almost as long as the list of situation comedies; in fact, the number of sitcoms is one of the concerns: 62 and counting. (The programmers acknowledge there are nowhere near enough funny people in television to go around.)
At the top of the list is the biggest issue of all: What is the economic future of network television? Is it destined to be a business continually diminishing inward from the edge, with viewers defecting to cable, syndicated shows and the Internet?
At a recent industry luncheon in Los Angeles, attended by the presidents of every network entertainment division, the question of viewer erosion haunted the room like a badly dressed, unwanted guest.
The looks over shoulders for that apparition will continue until the programmers arrive in their offices tomorrow morning and check the overnight ratings. They hope they see viewers, lots and lots of viewers. Tonight is the first night since May when viewers can see a full complement of new programming after the grim summer diet of repeats.
Summer viewers in larger numbers than ever are imitating Oliver Twist ("Please, networks, we want some more!"), prodding the network executives to recognize an issue that demands attention, though few have any answers for it.
Peter Roth, president of Fox Entertainment, has been the most vocal in saying the networks can no longer afford to take the summer off, counting on viewers to return in September like good little schoolchildren.
Fox tried a few new shows this summer, with modest success. Over all, however, the four networks' share of the summer audience fell to an all-time low.
"The thing to look at early this season is: Do the shows get sampled?" asked Ted Harbert, now an executive with the Dreamworks studio, but a longtime ABC programmer before that. "Each network has a couple of pretty good new shows. But will they be seen?"
Increasingly, putting on new shows that stick amounts to a survival test for the networks. According to industry trade publications, the advertising rates for television's biggest hit shows, like "Seinfeld" and "Frasier," are either down or just slightly up, while the rates for second-year shows considered incipient hits, like "King of the Hill" on Fox and "Everybody Loves Raymond" on CBS, had the biggest increases in average price for each commercial.
For example, according to Advertising Age magazine, the price of advertising for 30 seconds on "Everyone Loves Raymond" jumped to $215,000 from $110,000 the year before. On the other hand, some hits like ABC's "Home Improvement," whose ratings tumbled, saw their average advertising prices plummet -- in the case of "Home Improvement," to about $350,000 a half-minute from about $455,000.
So far, the overall commitment of the advertising industry to network television has not waned, but nobody at the networks wants to talk about what might happen if the national economy goes into a downturn.
Not that they have not thought about it. NBC's competitors see in that leading network's strategy a kind of Darwinian approach intended to insure NBC's survival even if its competitors slide toward extinction.
Defying previous network wisdom, which counseled avoiding direct challenges to hits, NBC has begun to pit successful shows against successful shows on other networks, looking to steal viewers rather than pull in alternative viewers.
Warren Littlefield, the president of NBC Entertainment, said the old network concept of counter-programming -- going in the opposite direction from an existing hit -- is, as he put it, "a dead idea."
Instead, NBC put four female-oriented comedies on Monday night, directly opposite a similar lineup on CBS. NBC also put the growing hit "Third Rock From the Sun" on Wednesday opposite another growing hit comedy, "The Drew Carey Show" on ABC.
Mr. Littlefield says networks have to present a consistent identity to viewers. For NBC, that means acres of "young adult comedies," whether other networks are doing the same thing or not. He calls this "doing what's best for NBC."
His competitors call it, as one put it, "scorching the earth," and wonder if it is a disservice to viewers that will further drive them from network television.
But Steve Sternberg, a senior partner with BJK & E Media, a service that buys commercial time for advertising clients, said the landscape of television had changed so much that networks simply do not see their marketplace in the same terms as they once did.
"Networks have their own cable interests now; they see things in terms of how well all their assets are doing," he said. For example, NBC regularly promotes its cable networks, MSNBC and CNBC, on its NBC programs.
And Fox does not worry so much that repeats of its own hit, "The X-Files" is running every weeknight at 8, pulling away viewers that might otherwise be watching network television because the cable channel it is going to, F/X, is also owned by Fox.
Still Mr. Sternberg wondered how viewers were helped when five networks placed high-profile shows head-to-head, as is the case now on Wednesday night, when "Third Rock" and "Drew Carey" are joined at 9 P.M. by Fox's youth hit "Party of Five," the new CBS news magazine "Private Eye" with Bryant Gumbel' and "Star Trek Voyager" on UPN.
It is hard to see how all those programs, each vital to its network, can thrive trying to live in the same place.
"Nobody has that many VCR's," Mr. Sternberg said.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Randy Jones) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FOX (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; CABLE TELEVISION; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB TELEVISION INDUSTRY (95%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (95%); INTERACTIVE TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); MARKET SHARE (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); CHILDREN (50%); 

PERSON: CARTER, BILL

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1997



434 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: Low-End PC's Take Growing Share of Home Market

BYLINE: BY LAURIE J. FLYNN 

 BODY:
When the price of a personal computer fell below $1,000 earlier this year, consumers began flocking to stores in search of the ultimate deal. For the first time, they are discovering that $999 can buy the latest technology -- or something close to it -- rather than a closed-out model the manufacturer had long ago replaced with something bigger, faster and better.
As a result, sales of these low-priced workhorses have been skyrocketing lately. While surveys from two companies that track such sales showed slightly different results -- in part because they used different methodologies -- both indicated that new, low-priced machines were having a profound affect on the industry. 
 One survey, from Computer Intelligence Corporation showed that personal computers costing less than $1,000 accounted for nearly 23 percent of all retail PC sales in July, up from only 7.2 percent in January. Figures from Dataquest Inc. were lower, showing that PC's priced below $1,000 accounted for 16 to 18 percent of consumer PC sales in the second quarter. In both cases, it is important to note that the under-$1,000 figure usually does not include a monitor, which typically adds a minimum of $200 to the price.
The first under-$1,000 Pentium PC from a major manufacturer arrived in January, when Packard Bell NEC introduced its D141 model. Since then, the company, which is based in Sacramento, Calif., has rolled out two more lines, and leads the category with about 28 percent market share, followed closely by Compaq with roughly 25 percent of the market. And I.B.M., Acer America and AST have also brought out models priced below $1,000 since.
But even before that, tiny start-up Monorail Inc. jump-started the low-end market last year with an odd-looking but functional system that includes a built-in notebook-style L.C.D. screen.
Just who is buying these systems is still a matter of debate. Fred Kern, vice president of product marketing for Packard Bell NEC, said the company's research showed that 70 percent of those who purchased its under-$1,000 PC's were either first-time buyers or people who had owned a computer in the past but stopped using it once it had become outdated. That was compared with the 50 percent of all Packard Bell systems that are bought by first-time buyers.
But the big question is whether the surge in sales of low-priced systems is leading to an overall expansion of the home PC market, whose reach into American households has inched up from 38 to 41 percent in the past year. At Packard Bell, the answer is a hesitant "yes."
"We think the market is expanding because of this phenomenon but we don't have any firm data yet," Mr. Kern said. But industry analysts, who generally concur that it is too early to tell, say a surprisingly high number of these systems are being bought as replacement systems by experienced PC users, and by small businesses and corporations looking to equip low-end users inexpensively.
What market researchers have discovered about the fickle consumer market could be disturbing for the makers of these personal computers.
Surveys of the more than 60 percent of homes that don't own a personal computer show that price is not what keeps many of these people out of the computer store. Rather, it is the perception that they have no use for a computer.
"The majority of home users who don't have a PC don't think they need it," said James Staten, a PC analyst at Dataquest Inc., a market research firm in San Jose, Calif.
But that, too, appears to be changing, driven to a large extent by the extensive hype about the Internet, Mr. Kern said. Add to that some major improvements that are expected shortly in graphics technology, along with the imminent arrival of D.V.D., a new video standard that delivers higher quality full-motion video than CD-ROM disks, and personal computer makers have reason to hope that the die-hards will come around soon.
These new low-priced systems have a significant advantage over low-end PC's that went on the market before them. Their most noteworthy feature is that they are able to run the latest software programs.
"The sub-$1,000 market used to be close-out computers, typically a few generations old," said Matt Sargent, an analyst at Computer Intelligence. "Now we have Packard Bell, Compaq and others announcing systems that were actually new technology."
But that's not to say the low-end personal computer is for everyone. While sales of these PC's may be surging, the volume is still small in comparison with higher priced systems, and the $1,500 to $2,000 PC remains the best seller. According to Dataquest, more than a million PC's priced in that range were sold to homeowners during the second quarter, compared with roughly 200,000 PC's priced below $1,000.
The reason? At the lower end, customers may be getting current technology, but they are most likely getting a bare-bones configuration. Most home PC's in that range, for example, typically have only 16 megabytes of memory, hardly enough to run more than one program at a time, a feature more experienced users would want. And such computers typically have the slowest of the current Pentium processors, easily fast enough for most users, but perceived as insufficient for heavy number crunching or for some demanding graphics applications.
Likewise, a sub-$1,000 system isn't likely to have the fastest CD-ROM drive or the fastest modem, both features many customers would prefer to pay extra to have.
But as analysts point out, home consumers typically do not need the fastest processor and largest drive, as long as they can do what they need to: write letters, track home finances and perhaps browse the World Wide Web. For those things, $1,000 could be money well spent.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Inexpensive PC's Look Golden" tracks sales of PC's costing less than $1,000, from January through July. (Source: Computer Intelligence) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (69%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DATAQUEST INC (69%); MONORAIL INC (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS PERSONAL COMPUTERS (93%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (90%); COMPUTER & SOFTWARE STORES (90%); MARKET SHARE (89%); RETAIL SALES (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); 

PERSON: FLYNN, LAURIE J ANN LIVERMORE (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1997



435 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1815 words

HEADLINE: Still Running With the Cows;
For Now, the Founder of Gateway Sticks to His Roots

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
Drop out of college, start a company, work endless hours and, against all odds, your fledgling personal-computer marketer becomes a success. You watch with pride and some awe as the company, started in a tiny office on the family cattle farm in Iowa, grows astronomically in size and value, into the millions of dollars, and then billions.
It seems only human to occasionally consider stepping back a bit from the workload and responsibility, cashing in and spending more time with your children. Ted Waitt, the Midwest's computer-industry billionaire, who is the chairman of Gateway 2000 Inc. -- a direct-from-the-factory marketer of personal computers, known for its quirky advertising and cowhide-patterned boxes -- acknowledges that he has had some second thoughts over the years. 
 One proposal, Mr. Waitt recalled, came a few years after Gateway was founded in 1985 and he was offered about $10 million for the company. He called his uncle David, a commodities broker, a man attuned to the punishing swings of the agricultural business. His uncle's advice: sell the business while it was hot. "He said, 'Don't walk away from it, run,' " Mr. Waitt said.
The 34-year-old Mr. Waitt also apparently entertained some second thoughts about his future and Gateway's earlier this year, when he talked to executives of the Compaq Computer Corporation about acquiring Gateway for roughly $7 billion. The merger talks collapsed in mid-April. But those reports, word that Mr. Waitt paid $14 million in July for a seaside mansion near San Diego (far indeed from Gateway's headquarters) and a surprising drop in Gateway's earnings raise the issue of whether Mr. Waitt's focus has strayed from the business recently.
"I'd be lying to you if I said I had not done some soul searching," Mr. Waitt said in an interview recently in his suite at the Four Seasons Hotel in Manhattan.
"But that is also something I've done at various stages in my career," he added. "Every time, I've come back and recommitted myself to the business. And that's where I am now."
He has not commented on reports of the talks with Compaq, and he would not do so directly earlier this month. "But I will say that I never looked at a transaction with the intention of getting out of the business," said Mr. Waitt, who was in New York to introduce new Gateway products and meet with analysts.
The Compaq-Gateway deal that was considered, according to one person close to Compaq, would have made Mr. Waitt, who owns 46 percent of Gateway, the largest single shareholder in Compaq and a member of the Compaq board. In short, Mr. Waitt would have stayed in the business, but as a high-level underling at Compaq, the world's largest PC maker.
Mr. Waitt also had qualms about Gateway being controlled by a faraway corporation, this person said. He may have some ambivalent feelings about his hometown community of Sioux City, Iowa, but his roots there are deep and loyal. "Both Gateway and I are products of Sioux City," Mr. Waitt observed.
His period of personal reflection behind him, Mr. Waitt must now lead Gateway through a tricky corporate transition. Gateway is trying to move aggressively beyond its consumer business into the lucrative corporate market. In the early going, that corporate campaign has faltered.
On Sept. 3, Gateway warned that its operating profits for the third quarter would fall sharply -- not much above the break-even point. The reason: an overly optimistic forecast of how quickly it could make inroads in the corporate market has left Gateway saddled with a costly inventory of chips and other PC components.
The company overreached, Gateway executives say, not because its forecasting model went awry but because sales targets were set above the level in the forecast. Gateway, to be sure, is growing at a rate of some 30 percent a year, well ahead of the PC industry as a whole. Yet its mirror-image rival as a direct marketer of PC's, the Dell Computer Corporation, which focuses mainly on the corporate market, is growing at twice the rate of Gateway.
"I pushed the forecast because I felt that we had become complacent, that we weren't growing fast enough," Mr. Waitt explained. "After all, you've got Dell clipping along at a 60 percent growth rate."
Indeed, the Dell-Gateway competition is one of the most intriguing rivalries in the computer business. Both companies are led by college dropouts -- now both billionaires in their early 30's -- who recognized the power of the direct-sales approach, bypassing retail middlemen to offer customers more powerful PC's for less money and enabling producers to build direct marketing relationships with buyers.
Yet the two men at the top seem a study in contrasts. Lanky and informal, his receding hair pulled back in a ponytail, Mr. Waitt drapes himself over a chair and lights a cigarette after retrieving an ash holder. ("I've used soap dishes as ashtrays in the best hotels in the world.")
His manner is welcoming, he looks people in the eye, and he speaks with a voice that suggests sincerity, even to the hotel staff. ("Hey, that's great; thanks a lot.") By temperament and instinct, he is a consumer marketer.
Michael Dell, Dell's 32-year-old chairman, is heavier set and more formal in manner and appearance. A no-nonsense businessman, he also has a lively, acerbic sense of humor, with his jokes usually cutting remarks about rivals. He comes from a professional family -- his father an orthodontist, his mother a stockbroker -- and is very much at home in dealing with buttoned-down corporate types.
Small wonder, then, that Mr. Waitt focused on the consumer PC market, while Mr. Dell favored the corporate market. Today, it seems, Mr. Dell made the better choice. Dell Computer's growth rate has been faster, its profits higher and its stock is the Wall Street darling among PC companies.
Gateway has begun pushing hard in the business market, doubling its corporate sales force in the last year. Earlier this month it introduced a full line of powerful work stations and servers, the machines that distribute data to desktops in computer networks.
The focus on corporate business, though, does not mean Gateway is pulling back from its consumer business. Its research suggests that the penetration of PC's in American households will move from 40 percent to 65 percent in the next three years, as lower-income families and the elderly join the computer age.
The company's greatest asset, Mr. Waitt insists, is its relationship with millions of consumers -- a third of American households with incomes of $75,000 or more own a Gateway machine -- whose preferences and purchasing patterns are stored, sorted and studied on the company's massive data bases.
"The corporate business is very important to us," he said, "but my biggest priority is to not lose the home."
Gateway is going to face increasing competition in the home market, notably from Dell, which announced last month a consumer marketing drive. "By concentrating on the corporate business for the better part of the last decade, we allowed Gateway to grow underneath the Dell umbrella," Mr. Dell said. "Now, we're attacking on both fronts."
Still, most analysts and industry executives agree that the challenges facing Gateway are mainly those of prudently managing new growth as it expands into new markets. Dell stumbled a couple of years ago, for example, and has since recovered with a vengeance.
And given Mr. Waitt's track record, industry executives say, he should be up to guiding Gateway through its current problems.
"Look at what the man has done," said Andrew Grove, the chairman of the Intel Corporation. "If anybody had walked into my office and described his business plan -- location-wise, look-and-feel wise -- I would have thrown him out."
Gateway's unlikely locale is perhaps the most remarkable thing about the company. And Mr. Waitt's relationship with the local community is complicated -- and it accounts, he suggests, for some of his self-described soul-searching recently.
Gateway's rise to become a $7 billion-a-year company has made it the engine of the local economy -- a community of about 130,000 people, where Iowa, South Dakota and Nebraska meet. At the borders, three cities meld together in what is called Siouxland -- Sioux City, Iowa; South Sioux City, Neb., and North Sioux City, S.D., where Gateway has its headquarters.
Son of a fourth-generation cattle broker, Mr. Waitt grew up in a longtime Sioux City family. When he started Gateway in the mid-1980's, the economy was moribund, a series of abandoned slaughterhouses as the local meatpacking business waned.
Gateway now employs 5,000 people locally, and it has led a resurgence in the local economy. A construction boom is under way, with new homes, bridges and streets. The police cars are new. Sioux City built a baseball stadium and has its own minor league team, the Explorers.
Mr. Waitt is the local boy-turned-tycoon in what has become a kind of high-technology company town. (His personal assistant is Jim Wharton, the former Mayor of Sioux City.) His success and personal wealth of $2.3 billion bring a burden of responsibility and loss of privacy, especially in a community with an agricultural tradition and long memories of painful reverses in fortunes. "There is a certain sense that this bubble could burst," observed James Taylor, senior vice president for marketing, who is a transplanted New Yorker. "Rightly or wrongly, that bubble is seen to rest on Ted's shoulders."
For Mr. Waitt and his wife, Joan, it means being more famous than they ever imagined. They walk into a restaurant, and every head turns. "There is no such thing as anonymity in Sioux City for us," Mr. Waitt said.
He extols the virtues of Sioux City life -- a five-minute drive to work, the extended family nearby, the Midwest work ethic of Gateway's workers. Still, as much as he has made up his mind to remain deeply immersed at Gateway, he hints that he is weighing the possibility of someday becoming a very long-distance commuter, working four 16- or 18-hour days at Gateway's headquarters and then departing on his private jet.
Mr. Waitt owns a vacation home in Colorado as well as the new house in Southern California. The $14 million property rests atop Mount Soledad in La Jolla, Calif., and includes a 16,000 square-foot house, pool and tennis courts. "We've had a house in San Diego for five years," he explained. "I just bought a bigger place."
Why San Diego? "I look at the ocean and think," he said, adding "and my wife loves the place."
The eldest of his four children is 7, and Mr. Waitt is intent on spending time with them, in the setting he deems best. "I'll end up living where I feel is the best place to raise my kids," he said. "But regardless of how much time I spend in Sioux City going forward, it will always be home for me."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ted Waitt hoists a signature "cowhide" box in front of company offices. Cows are now as visible in advertisements as in economic statistics. (Photographs by Tim Hynds for The New York Times); Stockyards were the dominant business. (Undated photograph, Sioux City Public Museum)
 
Chart: "Sioux City: Cows to Computers"
The economy of this Midwestern metropolis has been transformed by its native son's success.
 
Unemployment Rate
 1985 -- 8.5%
 July 1997 -- 3.5%
 
Taxable Retail Sales
 1985 -- $559.6
 1996 -- $936.4
 
Recent Amenities
 
1993
Lewis and Clark Park, municipal baseball stadium
New public library
 
1997
Sioux City Arts Center
City Hall renovation
The Gateway Trail, a three-mile jogging and bicycle path on the Iowa bank of the Missouri River, paid for by Gateway
 
(Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics; Iowa Department of Revenue and Finance) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (93%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GATEWAY 2000 INC GATEWAY INC (93%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: GATEWAY 2000 INC BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IOWA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (86%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); FAMILY (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (74%); COMMODITIES TRADING (72%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (72%); FAMILY FARMS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); MERGERS (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (64%); BASEBALL (61%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE; WAITT, TED

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1997



436 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Rural Opposition to Hog Farms Grows

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: GRUVER, Tex., Sept. 18

 BODY:
In the latest skirmish between rural counties in the South and West and corporate hog farms, voters in Seward County, Kan., have voted by more than 2 to 1 to keep out new manifestations of big pork.
Concerned about pollution that has been linked to hog farms, which can have up to 250,000 pigs, farmers and environmentalists in several states are working to slow or prevent the expansion of the pork industry into their areas. Spokesmen for hog-farm operations, however, say the companies are aware of environmental concerns and are seeking to reduce pollution. 
 With Seward County's vote against corporate hog farms in a nonbinding referendum on Tuesday, it became the 20th county in Kansas to vote on the issue. The Kansas Rural Center, an organization in Whiting, Kan., that says it promotes sustainable agriculture and family farming, said all but 2 of the 20 counties had voted against new corporate hog farms, also in nonbinding referendums.
Recent votes elsewhere have also gone against hog farms. On Sept. 8, officials in Hopkins County, Ky., asked Vall Inc., a pork producer from Spain, not to build a $7 million hog farm in their county. On Sept. 10, officials in Holt County, Neb., approved a moratorium on construction or expanding any feedlots, including chicken and turkey houses, for two years or until zoning regulations can be enacted.
Nancy Thompson, a consultant for the Center for Rural Affairs, a group in Walthill, Neb., that studies rural communities, said the votes reflected a widely held sentiment. "Any time you go to the people and ask them what they want," Ms. Thompson said, "in every instance they say they don't want corporate farming. It says people understand better than a lot of policy makers what kind of impacts corporate farming has on the community, independent producers and the quality of life in the area."
The Seward County vote was a blow to Seaboard Farms, which opened a $110 million slaughterhouse in Guymon, the biggest city in Texas County, Okla., south of Seward County, last year. The company produces 2 million hogs a year in this region and had been planning to produce up to 400,000 additional hogs a year in Seward County.
Mark Campbell, a vice president for development at Seaboard, based in Shawnee Mission, Kan., refused to comment directly on the Seward County vote. The final decision on building the farm is up to the county commissioners, who have indicated that they will follow the referendum.
"Seaboard is concerned about the environment and how it interacts with communities," Mr. Campbell said. "We are cognizant of our responsibilities, and we want to be sure that clean water and clean air can be balanced in the equation of animal production and economic development."
In the last five years, Seaboard and other companies have invested hundreds of millions of dollars in the region, which the wheat and cattle industries have long dominated. Dozens of new barns, each with up to 1,000 hogs, have become as common as irrigation equipment along the roads that connect the Panhandle regions of Texas and Oklahoma with southern Kansas.
Although the industry has created several thousand jobs, it has also created opposition. Farmers in Texas are suing the Texas Natural Resource Conservation Commission to block permits that have been issued to hog farms in Ochiltree County, saying they are concerned about odors and water pollution.
Kathy Bloom, vice president of Citizens for a Healthy Environment, the Seward County citizens' group that led the fight against the pork industry, said that her county already had 80,000 hogs and that voters did not want to add 400,000. "A pig excretes two to five times the waste of a human," said Mrs. Bloom, who, along with her husband, Fred, grows wheat, corn and milo. "That translates into a city of two million with no sewage treatment. That was appalling to us. Who would want that in their backyard?"
But Jim Shantz, a spokesman for Murphy Family Farms, a company based in North Carolina that is the nation's largest pork producer and is expanding operations into Texas and Oklahoma, said his industry was working to reduce odors and the potential for water contamination. Mr. Shantz said the Seward County vote would not have long-term effects on the industry. "It's an isolated case," he said. "There are other communities where corporate farming is being welcomed."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (70%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTER FOR RURAL AFFAIRS (54%); CENTER FOR RURAL AFFAIRS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RURAL AFFAIRS (54%); CENTER FOR RURAL AFFAIRS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS; UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (70%); KANSAS, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PIGS; WATER POLLUTION; ENVIRONMENT HOG & PIG FARMING (96%); COUNTIES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); PORK (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); MAMMALS (89%); FACTORY FARMS (89%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); REFERENDUMS (89%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (89%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (78%); AGRICULTURE & ENVIRONMENT (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (78%); CATTLE FEEDLOTS (78%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (75%); ZONING (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); POULTRY PROCESSING (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1997



437 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1628 words

HEADLINE: In the Balance, the Future of a Lake;
Arizona Town Battles Environmentalists Over Drainage Plan

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: PAGE, Ariz., Sept. 19

 BODY:
To Sierra Club directors, their proposal to drain Lake Powell, the nation's second-largest artificial lake, is breathtaking in its boldness.
To residents and recreationists here, the idea of destroying the nation's second most popular camping area is breathtaking in its arrogance. 
 "I tend to vote green, but this makes them look like absolute fools," Tony Randall, a Flagstaff resident, said on Thursday as he and his wife prepared their motor boat for a four-day fishing and camping trip among the lake's redrock canyons. Referring to the Sierra Club, he said: "If you support something ludicrous, it undermines your credibility."
Page, a prosperous town of 8,200 people, was built in 1957 by workers who created the Glen Canyon dam, and with it, Lake Powell. People here seem to be universally opposed to draining the lake and recovering the canyon. And with Congressional hearings on the plan set to begin on Tuesday, the lineup of forces would seem to be in their favor. Four million electricity users, 2.5 million recreationists, a $500 million tourist economy, volumes of regional water compacts and the Navajo nation are lined up against two environmental groups and a few species of fish.
"But the environmentalists closed down the forest industry to save the spotted owl," warned Verna M. Stoddard, who runs the Lake Powell Yacht Club. "They are pretty powerful people."
The environmentalists say the lake is wasting water through evaporation, covering up a beautiful red rock canyon and irreversibly changing the ecosystem of the Grand Canyon. People opposed to the plan say that Page needs the lake to survive and that after so many years, the canyon has been lost forever.
Four decades ago, engineers built a massive convex dam here, blocking the Colorado River at a narrow gorge of Navajo sandstone. Swelling to nearly the size of Lake Meade, the nation's largest manmade lake, Lake Powell has served for the last 20 years as a massive water bank for flood control, for hydroelectric power and for guaranteeing steady water supplies to Phoenix, Las Vegas, Nev., and Los Angeles.
Surprising planners, Lake Powell has also become a runaway recreational success story. Last year, 2.5 million people visited this remote lake five hours north of Phoenix. Of these visitors to Glen Canyon National Recreation Area, most of which is in Utah, almost 1.8 million camped overnight, just under the 2.1 million who stayed at Yosemite National Park, the nation's most popular camping area.
The lake fuels an annual local tourist economy of half a billion dollars.
Lulled by these numbers, few people took it seriously last year when David Brower, the founder of the Sierra Club, proposed that the lake be drained. If that were done, he said, the flooded scenery of Glen Canyon would be recovered and a wild river habitat would be restored for endangered fish in the Grand Canyon, 40 miles downstream from here.
To many people's surprise, the plan has gained momentum. Last November, the executive board of the Sierra Club, an organization with 600,000 members, unanimously endorsed the plan. The Glen Canyon Institute, a Utah group whose main goal is to see the lake drained, last year tripled attendance at its annual convention, to 1,500 people.
Organized opposition to the plan has formed only recently.
"People are only now beginning to wake up to this threat," said Larry E. Tarp, a retiree here who two months ago organized Friends of Lake Powell. "If they get rid of this dam, they would go for the next one, and then the next one."
On Tuesday, Mr. Tarp is to testify in Washington at hearings on the lake-drainage proposal called by Representative James V. Hansen, Republican of Utah.
Mr. Brower, 84, who has spent half a century battling the Government over environmental issues, plans to testify about the lost beauty of Glen Canyon.
"That dam destroyed one of the most magnificent places on earth, in order to have flatwater recreation," he said in a telephone interview from his home in Berkeley, Calif.
For 40 years, Mr. Brower said, he has felt guilty about dropping opposition to the Glen Canyon dam in the mid-1950's as part of a tradeoff that prevented construction of a dam that would have flooded the Dinosaur National Monument in Colorado.
"I was in a position to stop it," said Mr. Brower, who was the Sierra Club's executive director at the time. "But we softened, and Glen Canyon dam was built."
Critics say that Mr. Brower has personalized the battle, his ego obscuring the fact that the dam was built after a vote by Congress and cost $272 million and the lives of 17 workers.
"David Brower's ego problem is such that he believes he was solely responsible for the dam," Mr. Tarp said from his home in Greenehaven, a residential development overlooking the lake's southern end here.
Undaunted by such criticism, Mr. Brower contends that the lake is filling with silt and that each year it loses to evaporation 1.5 million acre feet of water -- enough to supply 1.5 million homes a year.
Bill Duncan, the Bureau of Reclamation engineer who manages the 710-foot-high dam, said that the sedimentation of the lake is very slow. At current rates, he predicted, dredging will be needed to clear turbine intake pipes in about 500 years.
Evaporation, in a lake that covers 252 square miles, amounts to about four percent of annual inflow.
"Evaporation is not elimination," said Mr. Tarp. Water that evaporates under the desert sun in Lake Powell returns to the ground in the form of fog or rain, most likely in the Colorado River watershed, he said.
The Glen Canyon dam, one of the last to be built on the Colorado River, has long been anathema to hardline environmentalists. In the novel "The Monkey Wrench Gang," Edward Abbey discussed blowing it up. In 1981, Earth First, a confrontational group, made its political debut by unfurling a 300-foot-long piece of plastic down the dam's wall to simulate a massive crack.
The loss of Glen Canyon, a kind of submerged Atlantis to some environmentalists, is expected to be a theme at Tuesday's hearings.
"The primary reason is recovering Glen Canyon," said Adam Werbach, who is the Sierra's Club president and who plans to testify. "At my age, 24, I have never had the chance to see Glen Canyon, but I hope my children will."
But people here say that the canyon is lost forever. Draining the lake, they say, would create a massive environmental mess -- the odor of millions of rotting fish, a white "bathtub ring" of dried salt stretching for 2,000 miles around the redrock shoreline, and an air pollution problem from fine sand blowing off the old lake bottom.
"You'd have silt, debris, the smell, the bathtub ring around the edge," said Michael A. Woods, a son of one of the dam's builders and Mayor of Page. "And Page would become a ghost town."
Mr. Werbach countered that there would be plenty of cleanup jobs for people in Page, adding: "We are talking about the largest, most important restoration project in human history."
With 400,000 boats launched on Lake Powell every year, local people also argue that draining the lake would destroy the recreational economy.
Mr. Werbach says river rafting, hiking and mountain biking could take the place of flatwater boating.
But the old landscape and ecosystem were not big tourist draws.
Before the lake was formed, Rainbow Bridge National Monument was visited by only several hundred people a year, who arrived on foot or on mule. With a boat dock now only a few away, 325,000 people visited the 290-foot-high natural arch last year.
Another group that fears the Sierra Club's proposal is the Navajo, the largest American Indian tribe. About 1,200 Navajos work at a coal-fired electricity plant and at a coal mine that feeds the plant, both of which might have to close if the lake were drained.
"The Navajo Generating Station would be out of water -- the intake pipes are 250 feet from the river level," said Mr. Woods, the Mayor, who is also superintendent of engineering at the plant. Designed to use a constant supply of clear lake water for steam and for cooling, the plant could not run on erratic supplies of muddy Colorado River water, he said.
With the dam and the plant, Page supplies power to about 4 million people. Sierra Club officials say that the power plant could be re-engineered to run on river water and that a regional conservation program could make up for the shortfall from the hydroelectric turbines.
There is some official support for the opposition. A regional environmental impact statement concluded recently: "Removal of Glen Canyon Dam is considered unreasonable." Undaunted, Richard Ingebretsen, president of Glen Canyon Institute, plans to hold in coming months a series of public meetings to foster debate over draining Lake Powell.
A popular line of attack on the dam is that it has disrupted the eco-system of the Grand Canyon.
"I don't want to be known as part of the generation that killed the Grand Canyon," said Mr. Werbach, the Sierra Club leader. "There is the destruction of the beaches, and the dieoff of the fish from the cold water coming out of the dam."
This water, which flows out of the middle of the 500-foot-deep lake at 47 degrees, has pushed to the edge of extinction several warm-water species of fish that are unique to the Grand Canyon. On the other hand, the new lake ecosystem has become a popular wintering ground for bald eagles, a threatened species, and home to the largest population in the lower 48 states of peregrine falcons, an endangered species.
The endangered species argument cuts both ways, people here say. Referring to one of the endangered fish species, Mrs. Stoddard said, "Why choose a humpback chub over an eagle?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: A proposal by the Sierra Club to drain Lake Powell has not set well with residents and visitors. Tourists last week viewed the redrock canyons around the lake, which draws 2.5 million people a year. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)
 
Map of the Arizona/Utah border shows the location of Lake Powell: Draining Lake Powell would uncover Glen Canyon. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: FLAGSTAFF, AZ, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (92%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ;GLEN CANYON INSTITUTE LAKE POWELL RESORTS & MARINAS (92%); SIERRA CLUB (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;GLEN CANYON INSTITUTE SIERRA CLUB (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO RIVER; LAKE POWELL; GLEN CANYON; PAGAN RIVER (VA); GRAND CANYON NATIONAL PARK; UNITED STATES (94%); ARIZONA, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLAGSTAFF, AZ, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (92%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GLEN CANYON DAM (ARIZ); RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; HYDROELECTRIC POWER; WATER ; NAVAJO INDIANS; FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; DAMS AND DIKES LAKES (92%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); RV PARKS & CAMPGROUNDS (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); CAMPING (89%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (89%); FISHES (89%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (89%); RIVERS (88%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (88%); MARINE VESSELS (76%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (75%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (73%); FLOOD CONTROL (73%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (71%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (67%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (51%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES TONY RANDALL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1997



438 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: Virginia's Race for Governor Turns on Education and a Tax

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: VINTON, Va., Sept. 19

 BODY:
As the governor's race in Virginia heats up through the final weeks of the campaign, the messages get louder if not clearer: Both candidates to succeed George F. Allen, a popular Republican, are selling comprehensive programs to improve education, their highest priority.
Donald S. Beyer, the Democrat who is Mr. Allen's Lieutenant Governor, wants to raise the salaries of public school teachers and reduce the size of classes by hiring a thousand teachers. James S. Gilmore 3d, a Republican who served as Attorney General until he resigned in June, wants to hire 4,000 new elementary school teachers and provide tax credits for private school tuition. 
 But with most statewide polls still showing large numbers of undecided voters, as many as 1 in 4 in some surveys, and the rest almost equally split, the outcome could well turn on abortion and on a pocketbook issue: an unpopular tax on cars and trucks, which both candidates have proposed eliminating in some form.
As one of only two statewide elections in the country this year, along with the governor's race in New Jersey, the Beyer-Gilmore contest is drawing wider attention than campaigns for governor normally attract. It is already notable for its spending, about $12 million so far, topping the previous record for total spending in a Virginia gubernatorial campaign.
But the two races also bear watching because they are taking place at a time when both major parties are struggling to redefine themselves and when public regard for politics is sagging.
In Virginia, where a governor cannot succeed himself and candidates for governor and lieutenant governor run independently, party unity often fractures.
A United States Senate race three years ago included two candidates who ran temporarily as independents -- L. Douglas Wilder, a Democrat who preceded Mr. Allen as the first black ever elected governor in the United States, and a moderate Republican, J. Marshall Coleman -- as well as the Republican nominee, Oliver L. North, and the eventual winner, Charles S. Robb, the incumbent Democrat.
In the current campaign, Mr. Beyer has been mildly criticized by Mr. Wilder for the patronizing tone of some of his advertisements, a rebuke that could hold down Mr. Beyer's advantage, as a Democrat, among black voters, and by Mr. Robb for elements of his tax-relief plan.
But campaign waters are calm for now, leaving Mr. Gilmore and Mr. Beyer the freedom to stick with their messages.
For both, the major thrust has been the need to improve state public schools and expand access to college at a time when Virginia's economy is growing at a fairly robust pace. Though their solutions differ, they agree that a growing number of job opportunities in Virginia await the properly educated.
In recent years, state officials have succeeded in attracting major new businesses to the state, like a Motorola microchip plant outside Richmond and a branch of the Gateway 2000 computer company in Hampton Roads. Also, the highway from the Capitol Beltway to Dulles International Airport in northern Virginia has become a corridor of major high-tech companies.
"To me, the most pressing issue is education; it's my passion," said Mr. Beyer, who says his background in business, as the owner of a Volvo dealership in Fairfax, would bring a new approach to problem solving. "For the last 40 years, Virginia's governors have been lawyers."
Mr. Gilmore, a strong supporter of Mr. Allen's push to eliminate parole and implement tough welfare-to-work requirements, said he wanted to be known as the next "education governor," an image he tried to bolster by having Lamar Alexander, the former Tennessee Governor who made education the centerpiece of his Presidential campaign last year, join him today at a handful of stops.
Yet neither candidate can shake too many hands before questions arise about his plans for tax relief.
As the first to announce an initiative, Mr. Gilmore said he would phase out part of the annual tax Virginians pay on their cars and trucks, eliminating the tax on the first $20,000 of the vehicle's value. Under the current system, some residents pay $1,000 a year or more. The tax generates more than $1 billion a year in revenue.
Mr. Gilmore contends that the loss in tax revenue would be more than offset by $5.5 billion in economic growth projected by some economists for the next four years.
Mr. Beyer initially derided the plan as "the worst in modern political life," only to propose a similar measure that would offer vehicle owners up to $250 a year in state income tax credit.
That would cut tax revenue by $1.2 billion, an amount that he also said would be offset by the growth projected by other economists for the state's economy. Mr. Gilmore characterized the Beyer plan as an effort to blur the lines between them.
Robert S. Holsworth, a professor of political science at Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond, said that unless Mr. Beyer could draw a sharper distinction on education, exploiting an issue that typically serves Democrats well, he might be unable to overcome Mr. Gilmore's natural advantage as a Republican who favors tax cuts.
But Mr. Gilmore might face a similar challenge on abortion, Mr. Holsworth said, because he has moved beyond his call for requiring teen-agers to notify their parents before they could get abortions to now advocating that they get parental consent. Also, Mr. Gilmore favors abortion only when the life of the mother is at risk.
Those positions might play well among conservative Republicans and members of the Christian Coalition, which began in Virginia. Mr. Beyer favors abortion rights.
For now, it remains unclear whether any aspect of the Virginia race might influence politics outside the state.
Mr. Beyer said he did not believe it would. But Mr. Gilmore disagreed, calling the two statehouse races this year especially critical in preventing Democrats from gathering momentum as they try to regain control of Congress in 1998 and hold the White House in 2000.
That concern has been reflected by the parade of nationally prominent Republicans who have come into the state to campaign with Mr. Gilmore, a list that includes Senator Trent Lott, the majority leader; Speaker Newt Gingrich, and former President George Bush, as well as some with their own agenda, like the Presidential hopefuls Dan Quayle and Steve Forbes. Colin L. Powell and Gov. George W. Bush of Texas are scheduled for future events.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lieut. Gov. Donald S. Beyer of Virginia, above center, campaigned for governor at the annual Norfolk Harbor Party last week. (Philip Holman for the New York Times); His opponent, James S. Gilmore 3d, standing at right, a Republican who recently resigned as Attorney General, met with veterans in Vinton. (Cindy Pinkston for the New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (60%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (60%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GATEWAY INC (60%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA; UNITED STATES (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; ELECTION ISSUES; GOVERNORS (US); TAX CREDITS; PRIVATE SCHOOLS; ABORTION; AUTOMOBILES ; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (93%); GOVERNORS (93%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (73%); TUITION FEES (72%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); ABORTION (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%); LAWYERS (55%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (55%); 

PERSON: BEYER, DONALD S JR (LIEUT GOV); GILMORE, JAMES S 3D ; JANOFSKY, MICHEAL JIM GILMORE (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1997



439 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: A New On-Line Publisher Promotes Nonfiction on a Pay-Per-Read Basis

BYLINE: By JON CHRISTENSEN 

DATELINE: PHILOMATH, Ore.

 BODY:
Jon Franklin has had it with the New York publishing industry. The journalist, who has twice won a Pulitzer Prize, has written four acclaimed medical science books. But they are all out of print.
Mr. Franklin teaches creative writing at the University of Oregon and his book, "Writing for Story" (NAL/Plume, 1986), a how-to guide for "stalking and writing true stories," has made Mr. Franklin a mentor of sorts for thousands of aspiring writers of literary nonfiction nationwide. It still sells steadily and has been kept in print. 
 But like an increasing number of his students and colleagues, Mr. Franklin is finding it harder to get his modest-selling "midlist" books published, let alone keep them in print. "New York is no longer backing midlevel books," Mr. Franklin said. "A lot of quality books are not given a chance."
So Mr. Franklin is turning to the World Wide Web to sell his own work and other "good writing" directly to readers. In late August, Mr. Franklin opened Bylines, a pay-per-read Web site (http://www.bylines.org), where readers can choose from "a gallery of fine writing" -- including original work by a variety of writers as well as his own out-of-print books -- and charge it to their credit cards.
The site began with 13 offerings, ranging from nonfiction "short stories" for 29 cents to full-length books for $2.50. It also includes essays on writing literary nonfiction, and Mr. Franklin has plans to add poetry and fiction.
Mr. Franklin is a traditionalist when it comes to the storytelling craft of writing and Bylines reflects his style. At The Baltimore Evening Sun, Mr. Franklin won the first Pulitzer Prize given for feature writing in 1979 and the first for explanatory journalism in 1985 for articles that broke with newspaper style and used the dramatic techniques of fiction to report on experimental brain surgery and neuroscience.
Because the focus is on writing, the Bylines site includes only text. It is simple and speedy. There are no graphics to slow it down. A visitor to the site can read the catalogue of offerings and browse through some samples of writing, but must provide a credit card number before downloading any of the pieces. The pieces can then be read on the screen or printed out, a step that Mr. Franklin acknowledged was still a weak link.
"I think people would rather read a book," he said. "But we're not competing with a book on the shelf. We're competing with a book that isn't there. You can't get it."
Bylines also aims to compete with book publishers for good writing by offering writers a 60 percent royalty. At that rate, a book sold on Bylines for $2.50 will earn the author roughly the same amount as a royalty on a hardback book, while costing the reader just one-tenth the price.
"What we're trying to do is tie the writer with the reader directly with an economic exchange," he said. "The idea is to cut out publishers, printers, advertisers and glitz. We believe significant content coupled with insignificant prices should yield very significant audiences."
Mr. Franklin said it was too early to tell whether his hunch is right. "Traffic is a whole lot higher than sales," he said. "People are looking and sniffing it over, like they do new things. One person came back three times before finally buying something. This is so very new, it takes people some time to digest it. The critical thing is whether after they read the first thing they buy they'll come back for a second thing."
Bylines is a collaboration between Mr. Franklin, his wife Lynn, who wrote a nonfiction "novella" for the site on reviving old, little-grown varieties of apples, and George Rodgers, who was projects editor at The Baltimore Evening Sun when Mr. Franklin won his Pulitzers there.
The Bylines Web site is sponsored by the journalism organization Investigative Reporters and Editors at the University of Missouri, and was designed by George Landau, president of News Engin Inc., a company that programs computer systems for newsrooms. Both have donated their time and equipment to support Mr. Franklin's quest to find out whether good writing will sell on the Web.
Brant Houston, the director of Investigative Reporters and Editors, said the project "is more of a mission to help writers and journalists than a business" at this point. The organization invested about $3,000 to set up the site, in addition to "hundreds of hours of staff time." It will collect 10 percent of sales. Credit card fees will take 2.5 percent, and the rest will go to capitalize Bylines, which Mr. Houston said would eventually become a commercial site.
Others, including The Utne Reader, have tried and failed to sell writing on a pay-per-read basis. And Idealab was developing a similar model for selling all kinds of intellectual property on its Ideamarket site last year, but has since pared its offerings to advice about computers and business.
"Pay-per-read has its place," said Paul Saffo, director of the Institute for the Future in Silicon Valley. "This is innovation in the grand tradition of innovation in publishing. By reducing distribution costs to zero, one can have a direct relationship to the reader. But people are still getting used to buying items over the Internet. It will take time."
Still, there are plenty of skeptics.
"I think this is a dead end," said Holly Brady, director of the Stanford Professional Publishing Course, which is offering a class on publishing on the Web this fall. "I don't think this is the way books are ultimately going to be sold." The course teaches business models for magazine, book and newspaper publishing based on subscription revenue and advertising revenue, but not pay-per-read.
The Franklins live and work in a quiet secluded home off a gravel road in the Oregon Coast Range rain forest west of Corvallis. But with computer keyboards in their laps, they are sitting at the nerve center of a buzzing literary world that Ms. Franklin compares to "Paris in the 1920's." Mr. Franklin moderates and Ms. Franklin edits an Internet literary nonfiction discussion group called WriterL that has grown to 300 professional writers and journalists since it began three years ago.
Most initial offerings on Bylines were written by participants in WriterL. The Franklins believe their network will help spread the word about Bylines and that their first market will be other writers.
John Higgins, one of Mr. Franklin's students at the University of Oregon, wrote "The Test," a nonfiction short story on Bylines about a young street-fighter who learns self-control through Kung Fu. He now writes the "Our Town" column for The Akron Beacon Journal.
He was also one of the site's first buyers. "I just downloaded a whole library for less than $16," he said.
Mr. Higgins said he was surprised to find himself reading books on his computer. "I like holding books, reading them, having them in bed," he said. "But if the writing is powerful enough, you forget you're reading on the screen."
Mr. Higgins said he had "faith in the medium." But, he added, "I'm not quitting my day job yet."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A computer links Jon and Lynn Franklin to a literary world they compare to "Paris in the 1920's." (John Gress for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (90%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (59%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (58%); UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (58%); UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); OREGON, USA (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (59%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; BOOK TRADE; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS PUBLISHING (92%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); NEUROSCIENCE (78%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); CREATIVE WRITING (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (73%); POETRY (73%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (72%); BRAIN (69%); 

PERSON: FRANKLIN, JOHN; CHRISTENSEN, JON MICHAEL MCMAHON (80%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (80%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1997



440 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: Vast Worker Database to Track Deadbeat Parents

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20

 BODY:
Enforcement of child support obligations enters a new era on Oct. 1, when the Federal Government will start operating a computerized directory showing every person newly hired by every employer in the country so Federal and state investigators can track down parents who owe money to their children.
States will be able to use the directory to locate parents and dun them, typically by securing court orders to employers to deduct child support from wages and salaries. 
 Keeping track of parents who move from state to state is one of the most difficult tasks in collecting child support, officials say. More than 30 percent of the 19 million child support cases involve parents who do not live in the same state as their children.
President Clinton will soon announce the National Directory of New Hires, which is required by the 1996 welfare law. But the directory is not just for welfare recipients. It will record basic information, including names, addresses, Social Security numbers and wages, for everyone hired after Oct. 1 for a full- or part-time job by an employer of any size.
It will be one of the largest, most up-to-date files of personal information kept by the Government. Michael Kharfen, a spokesman for the Department of Health and Human Services, said the Government expected to receive data on 60 million newly hired employees a year. Wages must be reported every three months; the Government expects to receive 160 million wage reports each quarter.
The size and scope of the database have raised concerns about the potential for intrusions on privacy.
Federal and state officials predict that the new Federal directory, combined with similar directories in all states, will produce billions of dollars in new child support payments. States like New York, Virginia, Texas and Missouri, which have required the reporting of newly hired workers in the last few years, say the procedure has been extremely helpful in locating absent parents.
In New York, Daniel D. Hogan, a spokesman for the state's Department of Family Assistance, said that three million people had been hired in the last year and that more than 5 percent of them had been found, through matching of computer files, to owe child support.
When people change jobs, Mr. Hogan said, New York officials inform the new employers of any child support obligations so the money can immediately be withheld from wages.
"We don't give them an opportunity to become deadbeats," Mr. Hogan said. "The biggest problem facing us in child support enforcement is people who move out of state. The best part of the Federal reform is that it will allow us to break down barriers state to state."
Health and Human Services will maintain a separate register listing everyone who owes or is owed child support. It will check each new employee against the list of child support orders to see if the worker owes any money.
Thomas D. Neal, a child support specialist in the Texas Attorney General's office, said: "The national directory will tremendously enhance our ability to locate absent parents and collect child support. Before now, we did not have a good mechanism to know that another state was looking for an individual who might be working in Texas."
Virginia has required the reporting of all newly hired employees since 1993. Patricia Addison, manager of operations for the state's child support program, said, "We've found it an invaluable tool."
The State of Virginia is routinely informed whenever a person takes a new job. By contrast, Ms. Addison said, in the past, "the only way we found out that the father had changed jobs is that the child support payments stopped."
Despite the enthusiasm of state officials, Robert M. Gellman, an expert on privacy and information policy, expressed concern that the new data would be misused.
"The Government is creating a gigantic new database with very broad uses and very little attention paid to the protection of personal privacy," he said. "Private detectives will find a friend in the police department or a child welfare office to give them access to information in the directory of new hires. That already happens with criminal, medical and credit records."
Mr. Gellman predicted that Congress would increase the number of people authorized to use the new directory, just as it has expanded the list of officials with access to Federal tax return information over the years.
Under Federal law, state welfare and child support officials will have access to the new national directory. The Internal Revenue Service, the Social Security Administration and the Justice Department will also have access for some purposes.
A parent living with a child will be able to use the directory to get information about an absent parent who owes child support. For example, a mother with custody of a child will be able to ascertain the father's home address, the name and address of his employer and the amount of the father's income, assets and debts. Using such information, the mother may ask a local court to modify the child's support order if the father's earnings have increased.
In Missouri, child support collections rose 17 percent, to $279 million, in 1996 after the state required reporting of newly hired workers. Teresa L. Kaiser, director of the Missouri program, said, "We had a big increase in collections from 'job jumpers,' parents who would work in one place for a few months, then move to another job before we could get a wage-withholding order."
States say the reporting of new employees not only increases child support collections, but also saves money in other programs. State officials can often reduce or eliminate payments for welfare, food stamps, unemployment insurance and Medicaid after learning that the recipients of such aid have been hired.
Under Federal law, the hiring of a new employee must be reported within 20 days to state authorities, who then have 8 days to send the data to Washington. States may establish tighter deadlines for employers, and many have done so.
Collections through the Federal child support program increased last year by 50 percent, to $12 billion, from $8 billion in 1992. But nationwide, only half of the families with child support orders receive the full amount due, and millions get nothing.
Here is how the new program will work:
*Employers may file information by mail or magnetic tape. States may also take the information over the telephone, by fax or through the Internet.
*An employer who fails to report new employees may be fined $25 for each newly hired worker. An employer who conspires with an employee to flout the reporting requirements may be fined $500.
*A multistate employer may file a report with one state listing all of its hiring across the country. Or, it may file a separate report for each new employee in the state where the person works.
The Federal Government will require only six items of information: the name, address and Social Security number of each newly hired employee, the employer's name and address and the identification number assigned to the employer by the Government.
But many states are requiring employers to file additional information, like telephone numbers, dates of birth, driver's license number and details of health insurance coverage provided to new employees. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CHILD CUSTODY AND SUPPORT; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; WAGES AND SALARIES; STATES (US) CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (95%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY LAW (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); FAMILY SERVICES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT BILL CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1997



441 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: Arab Countries Vote to Defy U.N. Sanctions Against Libya

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL 

DATELINE: CAIRO, Sept. 21

 BODY:
Arab countries voted today to defy United Nations sanctions by permitting airplanes carrying Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, the Libyan leader, to land on their territory and to permit other flights for religious and humanitarian purposes.
The resolution approved by the Arab League is an explicit rejection of the sanctions imposed on Libya since 1992 over its refusal to surrender suspects wanted in the United States and Britain in connection with the 1988 bombing of a Pan Am plane over Lockerbie, Scotland, which killed 270 people. 
 Colonel Qaddafi and his Government have flouted the sanctions at least four times in the last three years, including a trip that the Libyan leader made to Cairo 15 months ago at the time of an Arab summit meeting.
But the decision, approved by some 18 Arab foreign ministers, underscores the sense of solidarity felt within the Arab world with Colonel Qaddafi. It also reflected some of the rekindled animosity felt in recent months toward the West -- and the United States in particular -- for what is widely regarded as support for Israel in the latest crisis in the quest for a broader Middle East peace.
Together with Britain, the United States has been the prime proponent of an unyielding line toward Libya, demanding that Libya hand over the suspects for trial in the United States or Britain. Libya has proposed that the two men be tried in a third country or at the International Court of Justice at The Hague. Britain and the United States have rejected that proposal.
The Libyan Government first violated the travel ban in 1994, when a plane carrying Muslim pilgrims flew from Libya to Saudi Arabia for the annual pilgrimage to Mecca. It has done so at least three times since, including the journey that Colonel Qaddafi took in 1996 when he flew to Cairo to join other Arab leaders in a regional summit meeting.
Egypt insisted at the time that it had received news of Colonel Qaddafi's plans only at the last minute. The United Nations condemned the flight, as it has later trips by Colonel Qaddafi to Niger and Nigeria, where he traveled in May.
But the resolution today, after three days of talks by Arab foreign ministers, was unabashed in expressing support for Libya.
"We invite Arab countries to take measures to alleviate the sanctions on Libya until a peaceful and just solution to the crisis can be found," the resolution said.
It specifically urged the League's 22 members to allow flights carrying "the political leadership and official Libyan delegations participating in regional and international meetings" to land on their territories
That effectively means granting clearance for any flight carrying Colonel Qaddafi and his entourage.
The resolution also authorized Arab countries to allow flights for "humanitarian reasons such as the transport of the ill and the dead and medicine as well as religious flights."
The decision is bound to be seen as a new Arab challenge to the United Nations, which did not act last spring when Iraq sent elderly Muslim pilgrims to Saudi Arabia in defiance of a similar United nations travel ban.
Today's Arab League resolution also invited member countries to lift a freeze on Libyan accounts in Arab banks except for oil funds.
The resolution was passed at the end of a session in which the Arab officials seemed able to agree that Israel was at fault for the breakdown in the quest for a wider Middle East peace, but seemed unable to agree whether further punitive measures were required. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (72%); 

COUNTRY: LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); SCOTLAND (92%); ISRAEL (92%); EGYPT (91%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NIGER (79%); NIGERIA (79%); NETHERLANDS (74%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (91%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (74%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS; ARAB LEAGUE PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (72%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (84%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (84%); UNITED NATIONS INTERNATIONAL COURT OF JUSTICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS; ARAB LEAGUE UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (84%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (84%); UNITED NATIONS INTERNATIONAL COURT OF JUSTICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LIBYA; ISRAEL; LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); SCOTLAND (92%); ISRAEL (92%); EGYPT (91%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NIGER (79%); NIGERIA (79%); NETHERLANDS (74%); CAIRO, EGYPT (91%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (74%); 

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); RELIGION (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (79%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); APPROVALS (77%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (77%); BOMBINGS (71%); HAJJ (69%); 

PERSON: JEHL, DOUGLAS

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1997



442 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Asian Crisis Likely to Slow Economic Liberalization
American officials at the annual meeting of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund were confronted by angry Asian leaders who contended that foreign investors set off Southeast Asia's financial crisis. The most extreme accusation came from Malaysia's Prime Minister, who charged the "great powers" -- a clear reference to the United States -- with manipulating Asian currencies to knock them off as competitors. 
 Few Asians at the meeting have endorsed the Malaysian call to outlaw currency trading. But several indicated that they plan to slow economic liberalization. [Page A1.]
 
The Malaysian leader squared off against the billionaire George Soros. The weapons: currency and influence. The stakes: Malaysia's prestige and, by some accounts, the global financial system itself. [A6.]
 
Help Securing Child Support
Enforcement of child support obligations enters a new era on Oct. 1, when the Federal Government will start operating a computerized directory showing every new hire by every employer in the country, so investigators can track down parents who owe money to their children. [A1.]
 
Crackdown on Electronic Diversions
Government and private-sector employers are cracking down on computer games, personal electronic mail and recreational Web surfing. Management measures include monitoring employees' computer files and tracking their electronic footprints on the World Wide Web. Workers are devising retaliatory measures. [A1.]
 
McCann-Erickson Will Reorganize
McCann-Erickson Worldwide, the world's second-largest advertising agency, is undertaking its most comprehensive reorganization in almost four decades. The plan spotlights the increasingly prominent role of marketing services. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D12.]
 
Low-Priced Computers Snapped Up
When computer makers cut the price of PC's to less than $1,000 earlier this year, consumers flocked to stores in search of deals. As a result, sales of such low-priced workhorse machines have skyrocketed. [D4.]
 
Fretful TV Season Begins
For network executives, the season that starts tonight is D-Day of sorts: a long-planned invasion marked by excitement and fear. Programmers always worry about specific offerings, but never before have so many been worried about the future of the entire business. Bill Carter: Broadcasting. [D9.]
 
Turner Hopes to Avoid Stock Sale
Ted Turner, the ebullient billionaire who last week pledged to give United Nations agencies up to $1 billion over 10 years, said Friday that he wanted to find a way to give the money away without selling his 58 million Time Warner shares. Mr. Turner has set his investment team to looking for alternatives to an actual stock sale. [D2.]
 
Photo Rekindles Controversy
A photograph purporting to show the dying Princess of Wales in a wrecked Mercedes, and its publication by a French newspaper, has set off a new controversy over the dissemination of inaccurate information over the Internet. But the incident says as much about traditional media as it does about the global computer network itself. [D9.]
 
Lots of Britons are talking about Kitty Kelley's new book, "The Royals." But because of tough British libel laws, they cannot buy the book in British stores or even read about it in British newspapers. [A4.]
 
Gilder Pushes New Revolution
George Gilder, who promoted supply-side economics in the 1980's, says that the nation is in the midst of a technological revolution that will shake up the telecommunications business as fundamentally as the microprocessor did the computing world during the 1980's. [D4.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "LAST WEEK"
Dow Industrials -- 7,917.27 Up 174.30
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.37% Down 0.21
The Dollar -- 122.28 yen Up 1.32

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (54%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: MALAYSIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); 

COMPANY: MCCANN-ERICKSON WORLDWIDE INC (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MALAYSIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CURRENCIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); STOCK INDEXES (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (73%); EMPLOYEE PRIVACY (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (71%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (69%); COMPUTER MAKERS (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1997



443 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 145 words

HEADLINE: Cross-Border Investment Hits Record Level

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: GENEVA, Sept. 21

 BODY:
World business giants invested a record $349 billion last year expanding their operations overseas, and China took in far more money than any other developing country.
But annual growth in investment declined sharply from the late 1980's, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development said. 
 Investment in 54 countries by major corporations climbed 10 percent from $317 billion in 1995, the organization said. The latest total is more than double the annual average of $142 billion for 1985-90.
The United States remains by far the largest investor abroad as well as the biggest recipient of foreign investment, the report said.
One of every four dollars invested abroad last year went to the United States, it said. Britain was in second place, followed by Germany. But China remained the boom economy of 1996, receiving more than $40 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (65%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS CONFERENCE ON TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT TRADE & DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MONGOLIA (58%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS CONFERENCE ON TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (65%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); TRENDS (88%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (88%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1997



444 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1512 words

HEADLINE: Asia's Economic Tigers Growl At World Monetary Conference

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Sept. 21

 BODY:
After a decade of persuading nations to open their financial markets, American officials at a tense conclave here have run into a wall of resistance as angry Asian leaders charge that foreign investors and Wall Street-style trading exacerbated Southeast Asia's financial crisis.
The most extreme of the accusations came from Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad of Malaysia. In a fiery speech on Saturday evening, he accused the "great powers" -- a clear reference to the United States -- of pressing Asian countries to open their markets and then manipulating their currencies to knock them off as competitors. 
 Few Asians at the meeting of world financial leaders here have fully endorsed Mr. Mahathir's conspiracy theories or his contention that most forms of currency trading are "unnecessary, unproductive and immoral" and "should be made illegal."
Nonetheless, several have made clear that they are planning to slow -- and may reverse -- the liberalizations that have opened their economies to global forces.
In short, what has broken out at this usually plodding annual meeting of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, with its endless seminars bearing titles like "Pension Reform and the Creation of Efficient Capital Markets," is a nasty skirmish in the escalating war between nations and global markets.
The search to assign blame comes as Asian officials are still struggling to contain the damage from a brutal cycle of currency devaluations, stock market sell-offs and, in the case of Thailand, political upheaval that has swept through the region.
Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin is caught in the middle of these arguments, at once making the case for further opening of Asia's markets and fencing with Asian leaders over whether the fault for the current crisis lies in the markets or in themselves.
Mr. Rubin is a veteran of Wall Street who brings an international investor's eye to every policy debate.
He has spent the weekend arguing in private meetings that the markets are imposing badly need discipline on countries that failed to regulate their banks, pursued huge national projects that they could not afford and let cronyism win out over good judgment.
It is not exactly a welcome message.
At some moments the conflict here has mirrored the arguments in Congress over whether free trade accords undercut American workers. At other times it has been tinged with anti-American oratory, with particularly resentful comments about Washington's failure to take part in a bailout of Thailand this summer led by the monetary fund.
"It's really been quite remarkable," Mr. Rubin reflected tonight after a long dinner with his delegation, which is headed to China this week to assess many of the same issues addressed here. "For years, when I was at Goldman, Sachs and then when I first came to Washington, a number of us wondered when countries would fully engage in the debate about the effects of linking global markets."
Now, he said, as a result of an unexpected economic crisis, "people are beginning to put all the pieces together."
The crisis began in Thailand, one of the most successful of the "tiger" economies, which attracted billions of dollars in foreign investment -- more, it turns out, than it could wisely invest.
It quickly spread to Indonesia and Malaysia, where Mr. Mahathir quickly ordered restrictions on short sales -- trades that bet on a decline in prices -- and moved to prop up stock prices for Malaysians, but not for foreign investors.
That led investors to flee, and Mr. Mahathir was soon forced to make a sharp U-turn. But the damage to his country's financial credibility was done.
It would be easy to dismiss Mr. Mahathir's speech on Saturday as the angry ruminations of a prickly leader who enjoyed a string of economic successes only to see his grand plans to build airports, dams and a Southeast Asian Silicon Valley evaporate like numbers blipping off a trader's screen. Even in Southeast Asia, Mr. Mahathir's views are considered extremist.
But the fundamental emotion that he expressed clearly carries an extra resonance now, far beyond his country of 21 million.
This morning, for example, Finance Minister Thanong Bidaya Sunmday of Thailand agreed that Southeast Asia needed to create a "good system" to prevent speculators from driving down currencies. But when asked whether he endorsed the Mahathir idea that currency trading should be illegal, Mr. Thanong said, "I have no opinion."
Indonesia has sent mixed signals. In late August a newspaper close to the Government ran a public service advertisement with a picture of a currency trader wearing a terrorist mask made of American $100 bills. "Defend the Rupiah," it urged. "Defend Indonesia." But the country has largely kept its markets open and even relaxed rules on foreign ownership of some companies.
Leaders of 24 developing countries meeting here warned that proposals within the monetary fund to require further relaxation of investment rules around the world would "put additional stress on the economies that are already straining to adjust to globalization."
"The smell of things is definitely in the direction of slowing down, of reassessing," the president of the World Bank, James Wolfensohn, said in an interview today.
Sitting on the stage with Mr. Mahathir on Saturday, he said that "you could just feel the rapt attention" as Mr. Mahathir deftly wove his theories of Western desires to suppress Asian competitors with the economic events of the last two months.
But Mr. Wolfensohn warned, "Of course you have to be careful that when you stop the flow of capital, you have the greater danger of stopping the flow of technology with it."
While there have been financial crises before -- Mexico in 1995, Latin America in the early 1980's -- the feel of what has happened in Southeast Asia is in some ways quite different. Asia's emerging markets came to view the private foreign investors as a virtually unlimited source of funds.
It is easy to understand why. Only seven years ago, private investment in developing nations around the world was a mere $30 billion, compared with official development aid of nearly $65 billion. Now the proportions are starkly different. Official aid has declined to $45 billion last year, and private investment ballooned to roughly $245 billion.
When that money was flowing in, Asian leaders had no complaints. They were being rewarded, they said, for hard work, rising productivity and the emergence of an educated middle-class that saved at rates that put Americans to shame.
Now that the money has begun to flow the other way, leaving many countries with huge debts denominated in dollars that must be paid back with devalued local currencies, their attitudes have begun to change. Quickly the argument has become part of the debate over "Asian values" versus "Western values," labels that overlook a diversity of views in both camps.
Mr. Rubin has become the standard-bearer of the Western view that markets impose discipline on nations, economies and, most of all, politicians. His 26 years in investment banking at Goldman, Sachs & Company steeped him in the belief that markets go to extremes but that in the long run, they reward countries that keep their houses in order and punish those that do not.
He is sometimes so cautious, though, about the market's potential response to his every utterance that he often uses terminology that obscures his message. This weekend he indirectly answered Mr. Mahathir by saying currency speculation is "part of the total activity in secondary markets" that "increases liquidity and lowers costs."
The Rubin prescription for avoiding crises like those in Mexico and Southeast Asia is to get countries to disclose financial information that many treat as state secrets. This weekend he pressed a plan to get central banks to publicize their own maneuvering in currency markets so that investors could better assess a country's financial reserves.
If countries know that alert investors are watching, the theory goes, they will hesitate before engaging in financial maneuvering that will prompt investors to hit the "sell" button.
Of course, national leaders do not like to hear that they must abide by the dictates of currency and bond traders. Like many American politicians, they argue that global market forces should be channeled to serve their national goals rather than dictate those goals.
"The Asian message is that they are not going to adopt the wholesale, free-market capitalism that America is pushing," said Robert Hormats, the vice chairman of Goldman, Sachs and one of the thousands of investment bankers here to take the temperature. "There is resentment of the American pressure, and countries are pushing back."
It may be only temporary. After all, once Mexico got through the worst of its crisis, it again embraced the global financial markets. Asian countries have emerged from downturns before and concluded that they had no choice but to introduce more competition to their markets.

GRAPHIC: Photos: BLAME GAME -- Falling currencies have prompted some Asian leaders to criticize money traders like George Soros, dwarfed by his video image. He in turn said governments like Malaysia's had caused their own troubles. Page A6. (Associated Press)(pg. A1); A policeman in Hong Kong yesterday kept a protester from entering the meeting of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank. The woman opposes the meeting and the attendance of Li Peng of China. (Reuters)(pg. A6)
 
Graphs track the value, in U.S. dollars, of 10 Thai Baht and of 1 Malaysian Ringgit, since May. (Source: Datastream)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (95%); MALAYSIA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (93%); HONG KONG (92%); THAILAND (92%); CHINA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; MALAYSIA; UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (95%); MALAYSIA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (93%); HONG KONG (92%); THAILAND (92%); CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; FINANCES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DEVALUATION (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); PENSION REFORM (51%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; MAHATHIR MOHAMAD (PRIME MIN) GEORGE SOROS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1997



445 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: Reunion Recalls a Limitless Age

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG 

 BODY:
The young men of Stuyvesant High School's classes of 1947 and '48 came of age in an era of dizzying change. Born in the Depression, they were freshmen in the middle of World War II and graduated into a world that offered once unthinkable opportunities.
One graduate went on to become the deputy administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Another gained national attention fighting childhood leukemia. Another, an anthropologist, lived among headhunting tribes in the Amazon and became a shaman. A fourth was the chief economist for the First Boston Corporation. 
 Now in their late 60's, these four men -- and more than 200 other members of their classes -- convened yesterday at the new Stuyvesant High School in Battery Park City, to celebrate their 50th reunion and the school's influence on their lives. (Pooling their resources, the two classes decided to celebrate together, the class of '48 a year early.)
One of a handful of public high schools in New York that still requires an examination for admission, Stuyvesant has long yielded an annual crop of high-achieving graduates. They include the actor James Cagney (class of 1918), the longtime teachers' union leader Albert Shanker ('46), and three Nobel laureates, one each in chemistry, physics and economics.
While the classes of '47 and '48 produced equally prominent citizens, they arguably had it tougher than most. Many of the 1,400 members of the two classes were immigrants, or the children of immigrants, who had fled the Nazis, only to grow up living on a shoestring in New York. And after they graduated, even those ranked near the top of the classes of '47 and '48 had difficulty getting into college, because so many slots were reserved for returning veterans.
"We lived through an enormous transition in history, from an America that was separate to an America that was part of the world," said Albert M. Wojnilower, the retired First Boston economist, who graduated from Stuyvesant in 1947, eight years after escaping with his family from Austria.
"When we were pushed out into that world from Stuyvesant," Mr. Wojnilower, 67, added, "we were much better prepared, because of the education we received there, to understand what those big changes had been."
Long considered one of the premier public high schools in the nation, Stuyvesant has had a reputation for fostering intellectual discourse. During the war years, that debate was particularly vigorous.
When the atom bomb was dropped on Japan during the summer of 1945, Mr. Wojnilower was immediately reminded of what he had learned in chemistry class the previous year.
"To the adults, it meant a lot of people would be killed and the war would be over," he recalled. "But if you were a chemistry student at Stuyvesant High, you knew that this was some kind of Faustian consummation."
One of Mr. Wojnilower's classmates, Hans M. Mark, would go on to develop nuclear weapons during the 1950's and 1960's. He was later appointed to the No. 2 job at NASA. Asked which specific weapons he had worked on, Dr. Mark, 68, simply said: "Can't talk about that."
For a school whose student body was, at the time, heavily populated with Jewish immigrants from Eastern Europe, the end of the war brought a surge of emotions. Michael Harner, a '47 whose research on shamanism has won him an international following, said he remembers being at a gathering of reporters for the Stuyvesant Spectator soon after V-J Day.
"These kids were quite anti-Nazi, given their backgrounds," he said. "At one point, they stood up triumphantly and sang 'Deutschland Uber Alles' just to show that they had come through the war O.K."
"They were being sardonic," he added.
Though Stuyvesant graduates have routinely moved on to Ivy League institutions, getting into college in 1947 and 1948 was not easy. Not only were there quotas on Jewish applicants, but veterans were given first choice.
Dr. Harner had to wait six months before he was admitted to the University of Illinois. He went on to receive his Ph.D. in anthropology from the University of California at Berkeley. But he says he credits the archeology club at Stuyvesant -- as much as any higher education experience -- with influencing his decision to study headhunting tribes in Ecuador.
"It was a great gift from the City of New York that I feel emotional about even now,"said Dr. Harner, now a bald man with a long white beard, who traveled to the reunion from Mill Valley, Calif.
Dr. Mark, now thinner than in his yearbook photo, said he had been prodded to pursue a life in science from an unlikely direction -- his English teacher, Joseph T. Shipley.
"He said, among other things, that the future is in the laboratories," recalled Dr. Mark, who also went on to serve as Chancellor of the University of Texas and was Secretary of the Air Force under President Jimmy Carter.
Dr. Aaron R. Rausen, the director of pediatric oncology at New York University Medical Center and a pioneer in the treatment of childhood cancers, said he took for granted that many of his Stuyvesant teachers had doctorates. "They ended up helping people like myself get the equivalent of a college education," he said.
But much has changed since those days.
In the early 1970's, the first women graduated from Stuyvesant. And Dr. Mark is among many in the classes of '47 and '48 who said they wished there had been women nearby when he was in high school. "We always had to go on the bus or subway to social affairs," he said. "It would have been much more convenient to have them at Stuyvesant."
Not only are women walking the hallways at Stuyvesant, but those hallways are different: in 1992, Stuyvesant abandoned its 85-year-old home on 345 East 15th Street, near Second Avenue, and moved to its current site, a sprawling tan-brick building on the Hudson River.
The old building, as the alumni recalled yesterday, was dilapidated even in the 1940's, with graffiti-scratched wooden desks bolted to wood floors. As young classmates, Dr. Mark and Dr. Wojnilower shared a desk in drafting class with the initials "JC" carved into it -- a memento from Jimmy Cagney, their teacher swore to them.
Yesterday, as they toured the $150-million building, which includes an Olympic-sized swimming pool, the alumni seemed most in awe of the escalators that link the 10 floors of the soaring school and the electronic card reader that permits access to a library.
Everything, it seemed, was new.
But then they came upon Room 229, a working classroom that has been outfitted with the original desks and an original wood floor from the old building. Like many of his classmates, Dr. Rausen, the cancer specialist, could not help himself: he had to sit down in one of those chairs.
But he was surprised to find the space a bit tight between the seat and desk. "I guess I've gained a few pounds since then," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Classmates 50 years ago, Santo Farina, left, and Dante Pasquinucci reminisced after touring the new Stuyvesant High building yesterday. Among the 200 who attended a 50th class reunion at Stuyvesant High School yesterday were, clockwise from top left, Dr. Michael Harner, Albert M. Wojnilower, Dr. Hans M. Mark and Dr. Aaron R. Rausen. (Photographs by Linda Rosier/The New York Times )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CHEMISTRY (86%); CHILDREN (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (71%); NOBEL PRIZES (70%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (67%); LEUKEMIA (56%); TEACHER UNIONS (51%); RANKINGS (50%); 

PERSON: STEINBERG, JACQUES JAMES FRANCIS 'JAMES' CAGNEY JR (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1997



446 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13
 
Asian Leaders Vent Anger At Perils of Global Markets
Asian leaders used a world finance meeting in Hong Kong to vent frustrations against global markets, asserting that foreign investors and Wall Street-style trading had triggered a crisis in Southeast Asia. The most extreme accusations came from Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad of Malaysia. He accused the "great powers" of pressing Asian countries to open their markets and then manipulating their currencies to knock them off as competitors. A1
 
The Envoy on War Crimes
In an entirely new position, David J. Scheffer, the Clinton Administration's Ambassador at Large for War Crimes Issues, has been handed the task of insuring that wartime atrocities, like those carried out in Rwanda, do not fade into history. The post is the brainchild of Secretary of State Madeleine Albright. Mr. Scheffer's challenge is to avoid becoming just a well-meaning idea. A1 

Gore Arrives in Moscow
Vice President Al Gore arrived in Moscow for three days of meetings with Russian leaders on a lengthy list of issues, including oil and religious freedom. No sooner had he landed than a Russian reporter asked if the fund-raising allegations that had dogged him at home would hamper his effectiveness. Mr. Gore said he was glad to see that Russia had a strong and free press. But his Russian hosts abruptly ended the impromptu news conference. A3
 
Arabs Defy U.N. Sanctions
The Arab League voted to defy United Nations sanctions against Libya by allowing planes carrying Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi to land and to permit some other flights. The vote reflected rising animosity, especially toward the United States, for what the group regards as unevenhanded support of Israel in the latest Middle East crisis. The sanctions were imposed for Libya's refusal to hand over suspects in the 1988 bombing of a Pan Am flight that killed 270. A12
 
Ramos Backs Down in Manila
Some 200,000 people rallied in Manila in an outpouring of "people power" against President Fidel Ramos, who had flirted with an attempt to alter the Constitution so he could run for another six-year term. Mr. Ramos, who pledged not to run for re-election, said he had heard the voice of the people and would support constitutional changes only after he left office. A5
 
Solidarity Gains in Election
Poland's right-of-center Solidarity coalition appeared to have defeated the former Communists in a surprisingly strong showing in parliamentary elections. Although the former Communists had led the country through four years of economic growth, the revamped Solidarity appealed to the anti-Communist feelings of many voters. A7
 
NATIONAL A14-24
 
List Shows Clinton Was to Call Rich Donors
Justice Department investigators have obtained documents showing that President Clinton was urged to make as many as 40 fund-raising phone calls to wealthy contributors from the White House, nearly three times as many requests for solicitations than was previously known, officials said. Although it was unclear how many calls the President had actually made, most of those on the lists made large donations to the Democrats and, in some cases, portions of those donations were improperly transferred to an account that directly benefited Mr. Clinton's re-election campaign, a possible violation of the law, the officials said. A1
 
Personal Information Database
Enforcement of child support obligations enters a new era on Oct. 1, when the Federal Government will start operating a computerized directory showing every person newly hired by every employer in the country so that Federal and state investigators can track down parents who owe money to their children. The database will be one of the largest, most up-to-date files of personal information kept by the Government, raising concerns among some experts about the potential for intrusions on privacy. A1
 
Battle Over Artificial Lake
To Sierra Club directors, their proposal to drain Lake Powell, the nation's second-largest artificial lake, is breathtaking in its boldness. To many in Page, Ariz., the idea of destroying the nation's second most popular camping area is breathtaking in its arrogance. A14
 
A Pocketbook Issue in Virginia
Both candidates in the Virginia governor's race are promoting comprehensive programs to improve education, their highest priority. But with most statewide polls showing large numbers of undecided voters, and the rest almost equally split, the outcome could well turn on abortion and a pocketbook issue: an unpopular tax on cars and trucks. A14
 
Scrutiny for Watchdog Group
Citizen Action, a liberal grass-roots group, has long rallied against the influence of money in politics. But in a striking turnabout, Citizen Action now finds itself accused of illegally funneling money from the teamsters union and the A.F.L.-C.I.O. to the campaign coffers of the teamsters president, Ron Carey, whose election has since been overturned. A18
NEW YORK/REGION B1-7
 
Changes in Welfare Law Are Seen as Not Drastic
Experts say that New York State's new welfare law, which goes into effect in the coming weeks, differs from the approaches taken in many other states: New York's overhaul of the welfare system is not as severe in cutting benefits and pushing people off the welfare rolls, nor as ambitious in helping recipients find and keep jobs. As a result, advocates on both the left and the right regard New York's plan as dissatisfying. A1
 
SPORTSMONDAY C1-11
 
ARTS E1-8
 
The Other Life of Karen Finley
To see Karen Finley at home in Nyack, N.Y., may bring to mind a portrait by Sargent. But Ms. Finley's flowing skirt and long hair are the off-stage persona of a performance artist whose name is synonymous with controversy, the "chocolate-smeared woman" of Senator Jesse Helms's nightmares. In an interview, Ms. Finley discussed both her art -- highly visceral, startling monologues on social issues -- and aspects of her life that had informed it. "I think I'm a dreamer. I like to laugh. I like to poke fun at things, and I'm also crying in these throes and bemoans," she said. "People think that I'm hysterical and out of control. They expect that I'll just be taking my clothes off and using foul language, and that I would do this in my kitchen." E1
 
OBITUARIES D15
 
Jimmy Witherspoon
One of the great postwar blues singers and a figure who naturally bridged the worlds of blues and jazz was 74. D15
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-12
 
I.B.M Ready for Faster Chips
I.B.M. plans to announce today that it has solved a fundamental problem holding back the development of faster semiconductor chips and will begin manufacturing chips early next year that are smaller and up to 40 percent more powerful than the most advanced chips currently being produced commercially. D1
 
A Fight Among Friends
Michael Gartner, a former president of NBC News and now the editor of The Daily Tribune in Ames, Iowa, is waging a legal campaign against the local college newspaper, The Iowa State Daily. Mr. Gartner says that the college paper is using its tax-free status, its subsidized circulation and an increasingly professionalized, nonstudent business staff to compete unfairly with his paper. Complicating the dispute is the fact that Mr. Gartner also teaches journalism to the student reporters and editors. D1
 
Business Digest D1
 
EDITORIAL A26-27
 
Editorials: Janet Reno's baby steps; why the fish are dying; Brent Staples on "victims" and the courts.
Columns: Anthony Lewis, Thomas L. Friedman.
 
Bridge E6
 
Chronicle B7
 
Crossword E8
 
Weather D14

GRAPHIC: Photos.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (64%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); PHILIPPINES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); MALAYSIA (92%); HONG KONG (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); RWANDA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); POLAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (64%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (54%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (54%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); PHILIPPINES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); MALAYSIA (92%); HONG KONG (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); RWANDA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); POLAND (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); FUNDRAISING (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); WAR CRIMES (75%); BOMBINGS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (63%); RELIGION (52%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1997



447 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: The Conservative as Techno-Libertarian

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF 

DATELINE: RANCHO MIRAGE, Calif., Sept. 16

 BODY:
George Gilder has a warning for would-be entrepreneurs involved with new technologies: Watch out for emperors and morons.
To the irascible conservative economist and writer, emperors are the masters of the high technology universe, like Microsoft's chairman, William H. Gates. And morons are Government bureaucrats, like the departing chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, Reed E. Hundt. 
 According to Mr. Gilder, both groups conspire to hold back the tide of new technology that is destined to overwhelm the old economic order and create a vastly richer economy.
Though both men were invited, it is little wonder that neither Mr. Gates nor Mr. Hundt elected to attend the first Telecosm conference, which was held at the tony Ritz-Carlton resort here, near Palm Springs, to promote his notion that the nation is in the midst of a telecommunications upheaval, one that will shake up the business to the same extent that the microprocessor shook up the computing world in the 1980's.
This revolution, Mr. Gilder says, is based on the explosion of telecommunications bandwidth -- or network carrying capacity -- that new technologies are igniting, and on the rise of Sun Microsystems' Internet-friendly Java software programming language.
The counter-revolutionaries, he argues, are Microsoft, which he sees as intent on thwarting Java to protect its software hegemony, and the F.C.C., whose policies he derides for stifling technological innovation.
"The entire information infrastructure has to be reconstituted," he told the conference audience of about 350.
A senior Microsoft executive, reached by telephone from company headquarters in Redmond, Wash., was dismissive of Mr. Gilder's thesis. "George has a few ideas that are intellectually interesting and some that are just weird," said Nathan Myhrvold, Microsoft's head of research. "He mixes them up in a way that is often disconcerting."
Mr. Myhrvold had been listed as a speaker in some early conference material, but said he canceled because of a conflict and because he had no desire to play fall guy at the Gilder event.
Mr. Hundt of the F.C.C., who said he was unable to attend because of another commitment, acknowledged that Mr. Gilder was an eloquent critic, but one who frequently permitted his gift for description to outstrip his grasp of the facts.
"He's like a great soprano who learns an aria so well everyone loves it," Mr. Hundt said by phone from Washington. "Who cares if it is not true? It sounds so good."
Those who did turn out included venture capitalists and engineers who make up a loose-knit Friends of George confederation and two celebrity financier-felons from the 1980's, Michael R. Milken (who took part in a panel on high-technology investing) and Charles H. Keating Jr. (who sat in the audience and listened)
Also on hand: the magazine publisher and former Presidential candidate Steve Forbes. Mr. Forbes, the event's co-sponsor, confessed that he was "computer-illiterate." But sounding very much like he was tuning up a stump speech for his next Presidential campaign, he warned, "Politics and regulation can proliferate and alter or even suffocate creativity and entrepreneurship."
For his part, Mr. Gilder, 58, has never been one to sidestep the provocative. He made his mark in the early 1970's as author of "Men and Marriage," a polemic against feminism that prompted Time magazine to call him "the nation's leading male chauvinist pig author," and in the 80's with a supply-side tome, "Wealth and Poverty," which provided some of the intellectual underpinnings of the Reagan Administration. A post-feminist of sorts, he still shows up from time to time at workshops, sketcing his views on the state of male-female relations.
But Mr. Gilder has turned his word processor largely to new media and information technology, including articles in Forbes magazine and its high-technology supplement Forbes ASAP.
A year ago, he began the Gilder Technology Report as a joint venture between Forbes and the Gilder Technology Group Inc., a consulting and publishing company he established. The monthly eight-page newsletter, which costs $295, has drawn 8,000 subscribers in the first year.
Mr. Gilder's special passion these days is lambasting the the F.C.C. and the Clinton Administration for the strategy of privatizing the radio frequency spectrum by auctioning it off to corporations -- a market approach that Mr. Hundt said might seem to sit well with conservatives.
Not so for Mr. Gilder, who argues that bandwidth is essentially a free resource and that regulating it is foolhardy. He has been on a crusade for the last two years to convince anyone who will listen that by using new types of "smart radios," it would be possible for millions of users to share the airwaves. The smart radios would do this by sending and receiving transmissions that avoided collisions with each other, much the way car drivers generally do.
"The information highway model can apply to the spectrum," he said. "We don't speed, and we have rules of the road. You should give driver's licenses to people who want to transmit."
It is a radical -- and, for many radio engineers, a naively utopian -- view of the communications future.
"No one knows what the cost of wireless connection will be, or the technical issues of actually delivering such bandwidth in a reliable way," said Cary Lu, a researcher and author of the technical guide "Understanding Bandwidth," to be published later this year by the Microsoft Press. "To be honest, the cost of such data delivery by wire is not known, either."
Helping set the anti-Microsoft tone of the conference was Sun Microsystems' chief executive, Scott G. McNealy, who complained in an opening-night speech that his company and its Java programming language had become "ground zero" for what he called a Microsoft carpet-bombing approach to the software industry.
Mr. McNealy groused that it was difficult to compete against Mr. Gates, a man he suggested was able to "personally overdraw his checkbook by $400 million" -- a seeming allusion to Microsoft's recent purchase of the WebTV Networks, which provide Internet access through television sets.
Although Mr. Gilder did a brisk business at the conference selling copies of his books, which include "Life After Television" (1992), he did not carry out a plan to make the conference a coming-out party for his new book, "Telecosm," which has been appearing as excerpts for several years in Forbes ASAP.
As frequently happens with the software developers that Mr. Gilder celebrates in his writing, the project has fallen behind schedule. Mr. Gilder said he was still rewriting the opening chapters of "Telecosm" to set down the main themes in clearer form.
So it was left to a lieutenant, Charles Frank, vice president of the Gilder Technology Group, to tell those attending that they would have to wait for next year's conference, Telecosm 2.0, to buy the book.
But it will be worth the wait, Mr. Frank assured the crowd, adding, "This will be a Gilder version of 'It Takes a Village.' "

CORRECTION-DATE: September 24, 1997, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Monday about an information technology conference organized by the author George Gilder referred incompletely to Charles H. Keating Jr., the former savings and loan executive, who attended. While he was convicted on charges stemming from the collapse of a savings and loan association, both Federal and state convictions were overturned last year.

GRAPHIC: Photo: George Gilder, longtime jouster with the follies of big government, holding forth on freedom, bandwidth and smart radios before a friendly crowd of venture capitalists and engineers in Rancho Mirage, Calif., last week. (Scott Avra) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (55%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC; MICROSOFT CORP; FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION MICROSOFT CORP (58%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC; MICROSOFT CORP; FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RANCHO MIRAGE (CALIF); ; UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE ; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY CONSERVATISM (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); POLITICS (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); DEREGULATION (76%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (71%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (66%); JAVA PROGRAMMING (66%); PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES & TOOLS (51%); 

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN; GILDER, GEORGE; GATES, BILL ; HUNDT, REED E (CHMN); FORBES, STEVE (MALCOLM S FORBES JR) BILL GATES (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1997



448 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1632 words

HEADLINE: Small Daily Tries to Teach College Paper a Lesson

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON 

DATELINE: AMES, Iowa

 BODY:
This town may be as placid a place as there is in a state where good manners and neighborliness seem as much a part of the landscape as corn and soybeans. Yet a legal campaign by the owners of the local daily newspaper to curtail competition for advertising and readers from the campus paper could set off repercussions at dozens of public colleges whose student papers have come to act more and more like the commercial variety.
On the one side stands Michael G. Gartner, former editor of The Des Moines Register, former president of NBC News, a Pulitzer Prize winner and a lawyer. He maintains that The Iowa State Daily is using its tax-free status, its subsidized circulation and an increasingly professionalized, nonstudent business staff to compete unfairly with his paper, The Daily Tribune of Ames, first by trying to expand circulation off campus and now by soliciting advertising from noncampus businesses. 
 On the other side stand the student reporters and editors, and their paid business, advertising and production staff. They maintain that The Iowa State Daily would fail if it were forced to curtail its drive to expand off-campus.
Like any small town rivalry, the one here is complicated by the fact that both sides are closely intertwined. Mr. Gartner and his partner, Gary G. Gerlach, the publisher of The Tribune, teach journalism classes for the student reporters and editors who work on The Iowa State Daily. And so many of The Daily's students get their first professional newspaper jobs at The Tribune after graduation that it functions as the university's unofficial graduate school in journalism.
"I love the kids at The Daily," Mr. Gartner said. "I teach over there, I give them an enormous amount of my time, and I want to see them succeed. I just don't want them to stab me in my back when I put out my paper and sell my ads."
Citing an Iowa law banning competition from state agencies with private business, a law similar to ones in many states, Mr. Gartner and Mr. Gerlach, who is also a lawyer, have gone after The Iowa State Daily on several fronts. They have already succeeded in forcing The Daily to close a professionally produced free-distribution campus paper and to cut back its circulation area -- which briefly encompassed all of Ames and outlying parts of Story County -- back to the campus and its immediate surroundings.
The partners have brought an administrative action to force the university to expand the number of places their own free weekly, The Campus Reader, can be distributed. They are also in court seeking $130,000 in legal fees for another suit that produced a judgment that The Daily was a part of state government, and not a free-standing, nonprofit company, as The Daily had argued.
But the focus of the fight is advertising. Citing the anti-competition law, Mr. Gartner wants The Iowa State Daily, with a circulation of 14,000, to restrict its advertising to businesses on campus and in the immediate student-oriented tavern and restaurant district adjoining the campus. That would mean giving up the auto dealerships, the real estate agencies and other advertisers that have helped push The Daily's advertising revenues up from $600,000 in 1992 to more than $1 million last year, while the amount of advertising space sold rose 25 percent.
"I would say that there is some level of competition going on," said Warren R. Madden, vice president for business and finance at Iowa State University. "But I don't believe it is unfair competition. I assume local merchants want to advertise in a student newspaper to generate some business -- that's what a free market is all about."
The Tribune is profitable and its circulation has increased to 10,000 from about 8,000 since Mr. Gartner and Mr. Gerlach bought the paper 11 years ago. Yet the partners maintain that at least some of the business that now goes to The Daily would come to their paper if, as Mr. Gartner put it, "there weren't professionals selling and marketing the newspaper in ways that we believe they should not be."
The management of The Iowa State Daily, however, contends that a victory by the Tribune would kill both journalism education and the student paper itself. "What he is asking us to do is to pull back and try to live on ads for pizza and beer," said John Hobson, a senior in marketing who is chairman of the Publications Board, which oversees The Daily. "I doubt we could stay alive."
The Daily was in fact losing money during the recession earlier in the decade. It began building up large surpluses after 1992, as the economy improved and a new general manager -- hired from The Tribune -- and advertising director set the paper on an expansion course.
The added revenues have paid for new computers, digital cameras for campus photographers and a new computerized page-design system. The money also pays for a paid business staff of nine -- three of them employed year-round, five on a nine-month basis, and an hourly classified advertising manager -- with an annual payroll of $193,000. In 1977, when The Daily had a circulation of 15,000, there were only three.
To the partners, the accretion of paid professionals at The Daily is a detriment to the students, not a benefit. "Life on a big state university can be pretty comfortable," said Mr. Gerlach, who had been the publisher of The Des Moines Register when Mr. Gartner was editor. "The hours aren't too demanding, the benefits are pretty good, and I think some of these professionals have moved into these student organizations and kind of feathered their nests."
Yet most student dailies have similarly professionalized their business staffs over the years, supplying a management continuity that students cannot provide, said Mark Goodman, executive director of the Student Press Law Center, who had tried to mediate the town-gown newspaper war here before it could be echoed in other college towns.
"They might well argue that the advertising staff at The Daily is professional, but 80 percent of the campus papers in this country are set up in exactly the same way," Mr. Goodman said of Mr. Gartner and Mr. Gerlach. He added, "I cannot imagine more than a handful of college newspapers in the country that could continue in any way shape or form if they could not solicit ads off campus."
Predictably, as campus papers come to operate more and more like their private competitors, community papers have begun to grumble. "I think there would be fallout in other places if Michael wins this thing," said Charles T. Wanninger, publisher of The Iowa City Press-Citizen, which recently shifted from afternoon to morning publication in part to meet the competition from The Daily Iowan, the University of Iowa campus paper, which is also published in the morning. "Some people wonder why we worry about a campus paper, but they do compete in some key areas of the business, including for our readers' time."
A more glaring case is in Columbia, Mo., where the University of Missouri's School of Journalism publishes The Missourian, which is both professionally managed and edited, as a teaching experience, by faculty members. The use of both state-supported facilities and an editing staff reduces The Missourian's overhead costs to the point where it can undercut the advertising rates of The Columbia Daily Tribune, the local community daily.
"We have complained about it all the way to the university president," said Jim Robertson, managing editor of The Daily Tribune. "They always sound sympathetic, but nothing changes."
But then there are publishers like Lou Heldman of The Center Daily Times in College Station, Pa., who is conscious of the competition from The Collegian, the campus paper of Pennsylvania State University, without caring to do much about it.
"The Collegian is very strong and it gets a subsidy from the university and it certainly takes a lot of advertising revenue out of the market," Mr. Heldman said. "So on one hand it would be easy to be pretty upset about that. But I was the editor of the campus newspaper at Ohio State, which is very similar to The Collegian, and so many of us learned so much that's been so useful from that experience that I wouldn't have it in my heart to go after the campus newspaper. . . ."
Besides having no real estate taxes or utilities to pay for, The Iowa State Daily receives $100,000 a year from student fees to cover subscription costs for the free paper. That figure is close to the annual surplus the paper has produced over the last five years, $115,000 on average, and Mr. Gartner calls it The Daily's "slush fund" to undercut his own paper. Trim back the off-campus advertising, he says, make up the lost revenue by reducing the professional staff to its historic level, and he will back off.
The journalism professors who advise The Daily are divided on the issue. Richard H. Haws, this year's faculty adviser to The Daily, concedes that The Daily was the "aggressor" when it upset the traditional marketing balance between the two papers.
But Thomas L. Beell, who advised the paper last year, calls Mr. Gartner and Mr. Gerlach "corporate thugs" for expecting The Daily to confine its marketing area. "Students live and travel all over town," Mr. Beell said. "To assume that The Daily's advertisers have to be limited to the campus area is idiotic."
The success of The Ames Tribune has helped the partners assemble a small but growing cluster of daily and weekly papers in central Iowa. But despite this success elsewhere, neither man is inclined to back off the law suits. Indeed, both men are now watching The Daily's development of a World Wide Web site for any signs of advertising that would compete with The Tribune's own Web site. "That's the next lawsuit," Mr. Gartner said.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 29, 1997, Monday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day last Monday about a dispute between The Daily Tribune of Ames, Iowa, and The Iowa State Daily misstated the location of Penn State University. It is in State College, Pa., not College Station.

GRAPHIC: Photos: John Hobson, left, a senior and chairman of the Publications Board for The Iowa State Daily, and Michael G. Gartner of The Daily Tribune. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (96%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: AMES DAILY TRIBUNE (IOWA); IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY NBC UNIVERSAL INC (83%); IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY (94%); IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMES DAILY TRIBUNE (IOWA); IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY (94%); IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AMES (IOWA); ; UNITED STATES (96%); IOWA, USA (96%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPERS; ADVERTISING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SUITS AND LITIGATION; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (77%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (77%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (75%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (72%); AWARDS & PRIZES (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); LITIGATION (70%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER; GARTNER, MICHAEL G; GERLACH, GARY G

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1997



449 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1997

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1436 words

HEADLINE: Broadway Tries Analysis And Gets Shock Therapy

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES 

 BODY:
Despite some signs of life, the New York theater industry is still in decline and beset by rising costs and lagging audiences, an unusually detailed industry-sponsored study has concluded.
Bain & Company, a Boston-based consulting company that specializes in analyzing troubled businesses, has delivered a report that depicts the Broadway theater as performing at about half-capacity and losing market share to all other forms of entertainment. 
 Runaway costs have made the economics of mounting and operating a show so forbidding, the report says, that producers have gravitated to the most risk-free productions, making Broadway a showcase for revivals and large-scale, long-running musicals rather than for innovative new work.
"Generally speaking, the report shows an industry that has slowly, over time, declined," said Jack Goldstein, an official at Actors' Equity and the leader of the Broadway Initiative Working Group, which commissioned the report and includes theater owners, producers and unions. "We're not going out of business tomorrow, but if the problems outlined in the report are not addressed, the theater industry will be severely depleted."
The report has not been made public, but a copy was obtained by The New York Times from a member of the theater coalition, which is working on a $10 million production fund that it hopes will let Broadway offer more serious work through reduced theater rents, zoning changes and tax breaks.
The report is political as well as economic. Its immediate purpose was to unify the fractious members of the theater industry by administering a dose of shock therapy and, ultimately, to help Broadway present a persuasive case to the city for financial help or tax incentives. Bain was chosen, Mr. Goldstein said, in part because it had a good track record of analyzing troubled industries but also because, as an outsider, it would not be suspected of favoritism or bias.
The report relied on interviews and financial records gathered from producers, theatrical unions, advertising agencies and theater owners. It paints a picture of an industry with structural problems that invite comparison to the United States auto or steel industries in the 1970's.
The cost of producing a Broadway show has risen between 350 and 400 percent in real terms over the last 30 years, far outpacing the 80 percent increase in ticket prices over the same period, the report found. While top prices for musicals now can run to $75 a ticket, revenues have grown at an average annual rate of only 2 percent.
Cost increases have been especially high for advertising, union benefits and administrative charges imposed by theaters, and the greater technical demands for musicals have translated into soaring costs for building and installing sets, the report said.
Furthermore, the industry is plagued by underused capacity, with the smaller theaters lighted only 40 to 50 percent of the time.
While costs have shot upward, the Broadway audience has not grown, and the theater has lost market share to film, television, sports and casino gambling. On top of this, the report found, the theater's pool of writers, directors and actors has fled in large numbers to television and film.
The report takes a long historical view, comparing the Broadway of the 1920's with the Broadway of today. The contrasts are stark. In the 1920's, Broadway had 80 theaters presenting 218 productions each year, about 150 of them new plays and 45 of them new musicals. Only about 20 plays were revivals. In the 1990's, Broadway's 35 theaters have presented a little more than 30 productions each year. As in the 1920's, about a fifth have been new musicals, but new plays now account for only a third of the total, and revivals, once a tiny percentage of the total, now account for about a third of the shows on Broadway.
Revivals of plays and musicals have proved to be a less risky investments than new work, especially in the 1990's, when half of the play revivals on Broadway recouped their investment, compared with 24 percent of new plays. Seventy-three percent of musical revivals recouped investments, compared with 10 percent of new musicals.
In other words, the number of shows has dropped, but the percentage of shows recouping their investment has risen, as has the number of shows with at least 1,000 performances, from about 21 percent of all productions in the 1940's, to 35 percent in the 1970's and 80's. These statistics suggest a stagnant, conservative artistic institution.
Just as startling is the decline of Broadway as an originator of creative material. In the 1965-66 season, nearly two-thirds of the 50 shows that opened were new plays and musicals developed on Broadway, with most of the remaining productions being imports from London. In the 1995-96 season, about 10 percent of the 36 productions originated on Broadway. The rest came from London (10 percent), non-Broadway theaters (20 percent), the movies (5 percent) or were revivals (55 percent).
"From an overall financial point of view, the industry looks relatively healthy because of the great success of a few long-running musicals," the report stated. The success of such musicals, it argues, disguises the serious and growing problems facing plays and smaller musicals, and the creative vigor of Broadway as an institution. Patrick Graham, a partner at Bain, said, "If the issues are not addressed, I am convinced Broadway will dwindle to 5 or 10 theaters filled with musicals."
Not all the news was bleak. Broadway remains a potent brand name, the report concluded, with enormous potential for the kind of marketing and promotion common in other industries but untested by the theater. The way forward is likely to be difficult, however. Cost reduction is imperative, the report said, but "it will not be possible for Broadway to cost-reduce itself to prosperity." To survive, Broadway must expand its audience, increase production of new plays, make it easier to buy tickets and develop a ticket-pricing system that allows different audience segments to pay different prices.
The theater owners, producers and unions appear to have accepted the findings of the report, whose $100,000 cost was shared by the city Department of Planning and a joint fund administered by the Theater Development Fund and the League of American Theaters and Producers.
"They have accepted a very hard analysis," said Mr. Graham, the Bain partner. "We've told them: 'Look, you're losing out to every other form of entertainment in New York, but there's a lot you can do. You're not bankrupt, you're not dead, but everybody else is doing better. You guys have got to pull together, and you've got to get your costs in line."
The numbers did not come as a surprise, Mr. Graham said, but they had a sobering effect on the Broadway Initiative Working Group, which includes 30 industry representatives. "Everybody in the room knew some of it, but nobody knew all of it," he said. "The magnitudes were different than they expected. Not even they realized that returns to investors were what they are."
The report also depicts Broadway theaters as a social system with two classes: an aristocracy of large musical houses and a proletariat of small and medium-size theaters. The large musical houses, with 1,500 or more seats, have stayed lighted 80 percent of the time in the 1990's, compared with about half the time for the other houses.
For the struggling houses, the highway to profitability is steep, with very narrow shoulders. In 1965, a typical play in a 1,000-seat theater recouped its investment after a 15-week run at 85 percent of capacity or a 25-week run at 75 percent of capacity. In 1995, this play requires a 30-week run to break even at 85 percent of capacity, and the run would have to double, to 60 weeks, for the play to break eve at 75 percent of capacity.
In 1965, a musical in a 1,500-seat house could recoup in 20 weeks at 95 percent of capacity or 30 weeks at 90 percent. In 1995, a musical needed 65 weeks to break even at 95 percent of capacity or 90 weeks at 90 percent.
The report includes recommendations to expand the theater audience and increase production, including more aggressive marketing and a ticket-pricing policy that would raise prices for some segments of the audience and lower them for others.
"Broadway has many of the characteristics of an undersupported brand," Mr. Graham said. "They have never tried modern marketing. There are a range of things they can do to improve their situation, which is not nearly as dire as some of the industries we study."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BAIN & CO BAIN & CO (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: BAIN & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; INDUSTRY PROFILES ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (93%); THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); TICKET SALES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); MARKET SHARE (76%); INTERVIEWS (73%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (73%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (71%); TAX INCENTIVES (64%); TAX LAW (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (61%); ZONING (50%); 

PERSON: GRIMES, WILLIAM MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1997



450 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bond Prices Mixed Ahead Of Auctions

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities were mixed yesterday, in trading that was slightly above average for a Monday.
The dollar's rise against most currencies in European trading yesterday lent some early strength to the bond market. A strong dollar makes dollar-denominated investments like Treasury securities more attractive to foreign investors who stand to gain on currency conversion. 
 Traders noted that the upward trend was also helped by the fact that few market participants expect the Federal Reserve to raise rates anytime soon.
But the session's gains faded at the close as the Government set up its note auctions this week, beginning with today's sale of $15.5 billion in new two-year notes and Wednesday's $11.5 billion in five-year notes. In when-issued trading the two-year maturity was offered at a price to yield 5.76 percent; the five-year to yield 5.95 percent.
Analysts said participants are waiting until the auctions are finished and more economic data are available before making any large bets.
The 30-year bond rose 10/32 to a price of 100 10/32; the yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, slipped to 6.35 percent, from 6.37 percent on Friday.
Bill Gamba, senior vice president and manager of bond trading at Cowen & Company, said "Besides the supply factor, I think, if nothing else, the market is technically overbought, and without some backup in prices, there is a little reluctance on the part of investors to take new positions in front of coming supply."
He added that the market was so overbought that "this supply might be needed to correct that condition by provoking a little bit of selloff."
At yesterday's weekly bill auction, rates were down on good demand, given the economic turmoil in Southeast Asia and the fact that the end of the quarter is near. The average rate for a three-month bill was 4.90 percent, down from 4.91 percent last week, while the six-month maturity was 5.04 percent, down from 5.08 percent.
Mr. Gamba called all bills expensive. "Once you sell them, it's impossible to buy them back," he said.
But some economists said that the troubles in some Asian economies could eventually depress bond prices in this country, pushing up yields.
"All told, foreigners have purchased over $500 billion in U.S. Treasury securities since 1993," Sung Wong Sohn, chief economist for the Norwest Corporation in Minneapolis, said. "The torrent of foreign money has not abated during the first half of this year. Furthermore, five Asian countries -- Japan, Singapore, China, Hong Kong and Taiwan -- accounted for 14 percent of total private holdings of Treasury securities. The five countries account for fully 40 percent of foreign purchases since 1994."
Mr. Sohn said there were two opposite forces at work. "First, there is the safe-haven effect," he said, adding, "Undoubtedly, the recent rally in Treasuries has been aided by this factor."
But Asia's depressed economies and currency markets could eventually have a ripple effect in the United States if Asian investors slow purchases or cash out some of their Treasury holdings, he noted.
"Many Asian investors and banks need to shore up weakened balance sheets," he said, so the longer-term effect here could be to force up interest rates.
The following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new three-month and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

 	 	 	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	 	Average Price	98.748	97.452	Discounted Rate	4.90%	5.04%	Coupon Yield	5.03%	5.24%	High Price	98.753	97.457	Discounted Rate	4.88%	5.03%	Coupon Yield	5.01%	5.23%	Low Price	98.745	97.447	Discounted Rate	4.91%	5.05%	Coupon Yield	5.04%	5.25%	Accepted at low price	10%	44%	Total applied for	$45,481,681	$38,558,706	Accepted	$10,966,333	$10,477,406	Noncompetitive	$1,200,207	$1,181,181	
 
Both issues are dated Sept. 25, 1997. The three-month bills mature on Dec. 26, 1997, and the six-month bills mature on Mar. 26, 1998.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks average discounted rate, in percent at weekly auction, since late-May. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); COWN (NASDAQ) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (67%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (67%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); COWEN GROUP INC (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BOND MARKETS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); BONDS (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1997



451 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Dips Against the Yen, But Shows Strength Elsewhere

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
The dollar climbed against most major currencies but dipped against the Japanese yen yesterday after major industrial nations reiterated their concern that the yen might become too weak.
The Group of Seven industrial nations, meeting over the weekend in Hong Kong, issued a statement that they would fight excessive currency price moves that might cause large trade imbalances. 
 Officials at the conference said the statement was meant to convey that the Group of Seven nations opposed sharp declines by the yen, which would tend to increase Japan's already large trade surplus by making Japanese goods cheaper and more competitive in global markets.
"The G-7 said that it didn't want to see Japan weaken its currency to spur exports and it does look like the market is not willing to push the dollar higher," said Robert Sabia, vice president at ING Barings Capital Markets.
The dollar fell sharply against the yen when trading began in East Asia, but later rebounded just as sharply when short-term players booked profits.
"There was some extreme volatility, but when you take that out, it looks like a fairly benign news event," said Seth Garrett, chief dealer at Credit Suisse First Boston. " All in all, the fundamental economic picture has not changed dramatically."
In late trading in New York yesterday, the dollar settled at 121.75 yen, down from 122.28 yen on Friday. The dollar rose to 1.7914 marks from 1.7759 marks and to 1.4712 Swiss francs from 1.4630 Swiss francs. The British pound fell to $1.6049 from $1.6124.
The dollar rose against the mark and other European currencies after German officials expressed comfort with current foreign exchange rates.
A member of the Bundesbank council, Edgar Meister, told reporters in Hong Kong that most currency rates were at broadly satisfactory levels and that Germany would not oppose a gradual rise by the dollar against the mark.
"The G-7 didn't do anything to disrupt existing trends among major exchange rates," said Bob Lynch, currency strategist at Banque Paribas in New York. "By and large, the group seems largely satisfied with the way things are going." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); HONG KONG (93%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (86%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (86%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: GROUP OF SEVEN CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (94%); HONG KONG (93%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (86%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (86%); BOSTON, MA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET CURRENCIES (93%); US DOLLAR (90%); GERMAN MARK (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); BRITISH POUND (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1997



452 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1849 words

HEADLINE: Market Place: Quality Service, With Wings;
Midwest Express Profits By Pampering Passengers

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL 

DATELINE: MILWAUKEE

 BODY:
Susan Dietman of Plano, Tex., has been flying Midwest Express between Dallas and Milwaukee almost every weekend for four years. Asked why she was so loyal, she ticked off some familiar reasons: adequate leg room, good food, nonstop flights and attentive service. Then she added a new one:
"When I pulled into the Dallas airport over Labor Day," said Ms. Dietman, an information systems manager at J. C. Penney, "it was threatening rain and the front window on the passenger side of my car disappeared inside the door, and I couldn't get it up." A Midwest ticket agent came to her rescue, spending 45 minutes fixing it. 
 "Then he took my tickets," Ms. Dietman said, "and while I drove to the parking lot he checked me in."
If that ticket agent's skills were surprising, his attitude was not -- not to Midwest Express loyalists, anyway. "A lot of airlines take the position, 'You have to fly. We're here, so get on board,' " said Don D. Johnson, a frequent flier and the owner of American Mail Service, a direct-mail company in Ralston, Neb. "Midwest Express people have the attitude that you represent money in their pocket, so how can they help?"
At a time when many carriers, judged by their economy-class service, could be called Spartan Air, Midwest consistently wins awards for pampering passengers on its all-coach planes. And while other carriers seem eager to lure ever more passengers with cut-rate fares, Midwest resists this temptation, content with its own modest, but profitable, niche.
Indeed, analysts also love Milwaukee-based Midwest Express, which traces its origins to 1948, when the Kimberly-Clark Corporation began transporting its employees to remote mill locations in a prop plane. In 1984, it started commercial service with two leased jets and daily flights from Milwaukee to Boston, Dallas and Appleton, Wis. Spun off by Kimberly-Clark in September 1995, it is on course toward its 11th consecutive profitable year -- a span that includes five of the worst years in airline history. In the two years since that spinoff, the stock has doubled.
[The shares closed Monday at $30.75, up 50 cents.]
"From 1990 through 1994, only Midwest Express and Southwest were profitable every year," said Timothy E. Hoeksema, Midwest's 50-year-old chairman, president and chief executive, in a recent interview at the Milwaukee headquarters. To be sure, some of those profits were razor thin. In the fallout from the Persian Gulf war, Midwest's earnings in 1991 nearly vanished: 2 cents a share, from 46 cents in 1990. But nearly all other airlines were in the red.
Mr. Hoeksema, who flew his first solo flight at 16 and later became Kimberly-Clark's chief pilot, is widely credited with imbuing Midwest Express with a culture unparalleled in commercial aviation.
"He's been able to transfer to the airline business the philosophy and business principles of the corporation, including the zeal for pleasing the customer," said Dennis Crabtree, vice president for operations.
From the beginning, Midwest Express's strategy has been relatively simple: focus primarily on business travelers in cities with strong business bases that have few if any nonstop flights -- especially nonstops to and from Milwaukee or Omaha, where in 1994 the carrier established a mini-hub.
The one time Midwest Express departed from its game plan, entering the highly competitive Milwaukee-Detroit market in 1988, it suffered substantial losses before pulling out four years later.
When Midwest said recently that it would acquire eight MD-80's, for delivery through 1999, Mr. Hoeksema said it was part of a strategy "of profitable and controlled growth." Some existing routes, he added, are candidates for expansion, and some new routes may be coming.
For all the adulation, relatively few people have flown Midwest Express. Although it now ventures as far afield as New York, San Diego, San Francisco and Orlando, Fla., most of its 35,000 yearly flights -- about the number flown by Delta, United or American in less than three weeks -- are not much longer than 600 miles, compared with an industry average of just under 1,000.
Its 1.4 million passengers last year were a blip next to the 581.2 million passengers flown by the nation's big airlines, or even the 62 million commuter airline passengers.
How has Midwest, with so few passengers, earned such lofty praise? One big reason is that at a time when coach passengers are routinely shoehorned into narrow knees-to-chin seats, Midwest's all-coach fleet -- 24 DC-9's and 2 (soon to be 10) MD-80's -- features all-leather seats that are several inches wider and deeper than is typical in economy class. And there are no middle seats.
In this year's Consumer Reports Travel Letter rating of coach seats, Midwest's DC-9's received a "comfort score" of 100 and its MD-80's a 98, while most other carriers scored between 64 and 80.
"Their seats are the equivalent of first-class seats on most aircraft," said Ernest Hanchey, a project manager with HKS Inc., an architectural firm in Dallas, who flies Midwest Express to Milwaukee about every two weeks. "But I also like the fact that you get a real meal instead of a bistro bag."
Midwest Express pampering includes free newspapers at check-in, free champagne at breakfast and free wine at lunch and dinner -- meals served on china with silverware and linen napkins. Dinners include lobster and steak, poached salmon, lobster thermidor, shrimp cocktail and fruit.
After lunch and dinner, the carrier serves its trademark chocolate chip cookies, hot from the on-board oven.
Despite shorter flights than those of most other airlines, Midwest spends more on food than any other carrier in the United States, an average of $9.59 for each passenger, according to Consumer Reports, about $2 more than American and United spend and more than twice the outlays of the other big airlines. At the bottom of the list were U.S. Airways, spending $2.50, and Southwest, which averages just 20 cents on its flights under three hours.
"Back in the early 1990's, when airlines were bleeding money," Mr. Hoeksema said, "we could have saved millions cutting back on our food, but we would have lost our reputation."
Indeed, Midwest is so uniformly popular with its customers that, unlike almost all the sizable airlines, it has not even been included in the Transportation Department's ranking of customer complaints in recent years because it has not received the minimum 10 complaints a year.
The revenues of Midwest Express Holdings -- the parent company of Midwest and Skyway Airlines, Midwest's eight-year-old commuter line -- have grown an average of 24 percent a year for 10 years. Its net income increased to almost $21.8 million last year, or $3.40 a share, compared with $19.1 million in 1995, or $2.77.
Moreover, the airline's revenue for each passenger flown, or yield, rose 8.1 percent last year, to 19.3 cents a mile. While the eight-month suspension of the 10 percent excise tax on airline tickets helped, Midwest's yield still far exceeded the industry average of 12.9 cents.
Its secret? While Midwest generally keeps its fares in line with those of its rivals, it rarely matches their rock-bottom promotional fares and keeps a careful check on seat inventory.
"On our Monday morning flights to New York," Mr. Hoeksema said, "we may only have four seats open for lower fares."
Mr. Hoeksema disclaims any desire to become "a huge airline."
With no debt, cash flow last year of $29.4 million, a $55 million line of bank credit and a backup $20 million from Kimberly-Clark until 2000, "capital is not our growth constraint," he said.
"The constraint to our growth," he continued, "is how fast we can grow without losing our focus and control of our quality."
His goal, he said, is to expand capacity 12 to 18 percent a year, to continue to be a good place to work and to earn the best return for stockholders. Midwest became 100 percent publicly owned in May 1996, when Kimberly-Clark, which had moved its headquarters from Neenah, Wis., to Dallas, sold its remaining 20 percent stake. Officers, directors and employees own about 6.4 percent of the 6.4 million shares.
Salaries at Midwest Express, a nonunion airline, are well below those of the major carriers, but about average for a carrier its size: pilots earn about $75,000 a year, and flight attendants' pay ranges from $14,500 to $24,000. Employees also received a bonus of 8 percent of their base salary last year from a profit-sharing plan.
Brenda Skelton, senior vice president for marketing services, attributes the carrier's success to its discipline in everything from routes to fares to its fleet, which consists of 14 company-owned planes and 12 leased ones.
Midwest buys used aircraft almost exclusively, paying about $8 million: half for the plane itself and the other $4 million to rebuild it and install "hush kits" -- noise-reduction devices that most airlines are installing to comply with the Dec. 31, 1999, deadline for meeting Federal noise reduction requirements.
"A new aircraft," Ms. Skelton said, "would cost north of $20 million." While Midwest is acquiring those eight MD-80's, for an undisclosed sum, it is considering turning the deal into a sale-leaseback.
The Midwest fleet is about 23 years old, one of the oldest in the industry, but is relatively youthful based on a more important gauge: landings and takeoffs, or cycles. Noting that DC-9's are certified for a life of at least 100,000 cycles, Robinson-Humphrey, the Atlanta brokerage firm, noted in a research report earlier this year that the Midwest fleet averages fewer than 50,000 because it buys planes with fewer cycles.
The only blot on the Midwest Express safety record occurred in September 1985, when one of its DC-9's crashed on takeoff in Milwaukee, killing all 31 aboard. The National Transportation Safety Board ruled that the probable cause was pilot error.
Fittingly for an airline that evolved from a corporate culture, most Midway Express flights are set up so that business travelers can get where they are going and return that night. And business travelers are in the majority even on its two daily nonstops to Orlando, arguably the family leisure capital of the world.
"When we thought about serving Orlando, we weren't interested in the $89 round trip; we said let's serve it as a business market," said Bob Bahlman, Midwest's chief financial officer. "If we wanted market share instead of profitability, we'd have five round trips a day, instead of two."
Similarly, the airline flies a daily nonstop between Milwaukee and San Francisco. But in the winter, it shifts that plane to Phoenix, which attracts many Midwestern "snowbirds." It also serves the Florida cities of Tampa, Fort Myers and Fort Lauderdale in winter, then shifts those planes to more profitable markets.
"In the beginning, we were afraid we might not get our regular passengers back, especially in San Francisco," Mr. Bahlman said. "But," he added, a satisfied gleam in his eye, "when we return, they're there waiting."

GRAPHIC: Photo: While some airlines have reduced amenities, Midwest Express is an exception. We could have saved millions cutting back on our food, says Timothy E. Hoeksema, Midwest's chairman, but we would have lost our reputation.(Chris Corsmeier for The New York Times)
 
Tables: "Above the Competition"
Midwest Express consistenly ranks among the best doemestic airlines in customer surveys. One possible reason: Attention to such details as spending more on its in-flight meals than its competitors do. Tables show scores of 1997 surveys by Conde Nast Traveler and by Travel & Leisure of the best domestic airlines. Also shown is the amount spent on food for each passenger on several large domestic carriers, as published in Consumer Reports Travel Letter. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: KMB (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (82%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (94%); DALLAS, TX, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MIDWEST EXPRESS AIRLINES KIMBERLY-CLARK CORP (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: MIDWEST EXPRESS AIRLINES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (94%); DALLAS, TX, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) AIRLINES (91%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (78%); US LABOR DAY (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); AIRPORTS (77%); TICKET AGENCIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (68%); DESERT STORM (60%); 

PERSON: HOEKSEMA, TIMOTHY E; MCDOWELL, EDWIN MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1997



453 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 27; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: Timothy W. Stanley, 69, Expert On Defense Policy and Strategies

BYLINE: By ERIC PACE 

 BODY:
Timothy Wadsworth Stanley, an authority on defense policy who served in the 1960's as assistant to Secretary of Defense Robert S. McNamara for NATO force planning and then as a defense adviser, with the rank of minister, in the United States mission to NATO, died on Sunday at his home in Washington, D.C. He was 69.
The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his daughter Alessandra, who is co-chief of The New York Times's Moscow bureau. 
 Mr. Stanley held defense posts in the Eisenhower, Kennedy, Johnson and Nixon Administrations. He was a special assistant on the White House staff during the Eisenhower Administration, from 1957 to 1959, and held other Pentagon posts before that and later. He was an assistant to Secretary McNamara, based in Paris, from 1965 to 1967, and a minister in the NATO mission, based in Paris and Brussels, from 1967 to 1969.
He was awarded the United States' Distinguished Civilian Service medal in 1969 for work he had done in Europe, including playing a key role in getting agreement from other NATO countries on the proposed strategy of "flexible response," which had been the subject of contention, within the alliance, since the Kennedy Administration began.
He went on to be a visiting professor at the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies in 1969 and 1970, and he also taught at Harvard and George Washington Universities over the years. In 1973 and 1974 he was special representative of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency in Vienna, during negotiations about East-West mutual balanced force reductions.
Mr. Stanley later worked as a political economist specializing in international matters. He was president and then chairman of the International Economic Policy Association, a Washington-based consulting firm, from 1974 to 1987. During those years, he also became president of the International Economic Studies Institute, a Washington-based not-for-profit think tank. He held that post until 1996.
His many writings include the book "NATO in Transition: The Future of the Atlantic Alliance" (1965). In his later years he often testified as an expert witness before Congressional committees.
Mr. Stanley was born in Hartford, grew up in New Britain, Conn., received a bachelor's degree in 1950 from Yale and a law degree in 1955 and a doctorate in political science in 1957, both from Harvard.
He served in the Army from 1946 to 1948 and in 1951 and 1952, rising to first lieutenant. It was while he studied political science at Harvard that he became interested in defense and in international relations as policy matters. And he also went on to be admitted to the bars of the Supreme Courts of Connecticut and of the United States.
In addition to his daughter Alessandra, he is survived by his wife of 45 years, the former Nadia Leon; two sons, Timothy W. 3d of Manhattan and Christopher M. of Cambridge, Mass.; another daughter, Flavia M. of Northampton, Mass; and three grandchildren. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (92%); BELGIUM (79%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (75%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (55%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (55%); UNITED STATES ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT AGENCY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (55%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (55%); UNITED STATES ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT AGENCY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (92%); BELGIUM (79%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (75%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (86%); POLITICS (86%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); EXPERT WITNESSES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (69%); TESTIMONY (68%); WITNESSES (65%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); CANCER (56%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (56%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); 

PERSON: STANLEY, TIMOTHY WADSWORTH; PACE, ERIC JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1997



454 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: Herzliya Journal;
Spring Forward, Fall Back Into a Religious Debate

BYLINE: By JOEL GREENBERG 

DATELINE: HERZLIYA, Israel, Sept. 21

 BODY:
As the sun dipped toward the horizon late this afternoon, Yaniv and Efrat Peri hurried down to the beach to get in a quick walk before darkness fell on this seaside town north of Tel Aviv.
With temperatures here still in the 80's during Israel's lingering summer, the country has suddenly gone off daylight saving time, moving into what Israelis call the "winter clock" weeks ahead of neighboring countries, Europe and the United States. 
 On Sunday the Peris managed their first sunset walk after work since clocks were set back an hour on Sept. 13, bringing dusk soon after 5:30 P.M.
"What proper country is under such influence of the religious?" Mr. Peri said. "It's simply a disgrace."
He was referring to the move by Interior Minister Eliahu Suissa, a member of Shas, a strictly Orthodox party, to lop a month off Israeli daylight saving time, which began March 20 and was supposed to have lasted until Oct. 19.
Mr. Suissa has defended his decision on religious grounds, adding to the simmering debate here over the role religion should play in regulating everyday life. The debate has sharpened since the change of government after national elections last year, when Orthodox Jewish parties gained key Cabinet posts in the conservative coalition led by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.
Setting back the clocks has pushed the balmy Mediterranean evenings here into the end of the workday and rush hour, forcing commuters to drive home in twilight. Children leave playgrounds earlier to go home, lights come on sooner and air-conditioners are switched on earlier in the morning to counter the effects of a stronger sun.
The Israel Electric Company says it saved $3 million during the period of daylight saving time this year, and the Manufacturers Association of Israel has estimated total savings for the Israeli economy at an average of $114,000 a day. Some Israeli studies have even shown a decline in traffic accidents during daylight saving time and higher worker productivity.
But Mr. Suissa says the change of rhythm is necessary for the approaching fast day of Yom Kippur and penitential prayers known as selihot said by observant Sephardic Jews at midnight or dawn during the month before the fast.
Setting back the clock, Mr. Suissa asserts, makes selihot prayer times more convenient and hastens the end of the Yom Kippur fast, which falls on Oct. 11 and is observed by many secular as well as religious Israelis.
To Mr. Suissa the time change is an act of consideration for Israel's religious minority, similar to allowances made for Israeli Arabs.
"We demand at least the same rights given to another population," Mr. Suissa said, arguing that daylight saving time has been delayed in the past to accommodate Ramadan, the Muslim month of fasting. "I'm asking for at least the same right so I can fast decently on Yom Kippur."
Raphael Haim, an Orthodox Sephardic Jew in Jerusalem who recites selihot every night, said the cancellation of daylight saving time had moved up the starting hour for prayer, at the midpoint between sunset and sunrise.
"It's good for me because now we start at 11:30 P.M. instead of 12:30 A.M., which later leaves me an extra hour to sleep," he said. "It shouldn't bother anyone because it merely restores the original clock. It's also good for the family, because you can put the kids to bed earlier."
But Mr. Suissa's move has brought down the wrath of secular Israelis, who accuse him of trying to run their lives according to religious dictates.
"Minister Suissa thinks he is God," Yossi Sarid, a leader of the leftist Meretz party, said in remarks broadcast on army radio. "God says: 'Let there be light,' and there is light. God says: 'Let there be darkness,' and there is darkness. Minister Suissa has delusions of grandeur. It's not enough that he represents God, he is God himself. He says: 'Let there be darkness' in the middle of the summer, and he wants us to live in darkness."
Amit Artman, from Ramat Gan, near Tel Aviv, wrote an angry letter to the editor of the newspaper Haaretz recently, condemning "the winter clock inflicted on us prematurely by the Interior Minister, at a time when we are all still sweating in a hot and humid Mediterranean summer."
Zamira Segev wrote from Jerusalem that she had "the growing feeling that a whole country is being run in lunatic fashion, as if it were hostage to some strange cult." She added, "We won't take this much longer."
Mr. Suissa says he would rather do away with daylight saving time altogether, but he has formed a committee of experts to review the question, which has been the subject of political controversy and repeated study in Israel for years.
Periods of daylight saving time in Israel have fluctuated in recent decades, reflecting the tug-of-war between religious and economic considerations. Two years ago, experts in the Israeli Ministry of Energy recommended that daylight saving time last 240 days, from the beginning of March to late October, corresponding to the number of days in Israel when air-conditioning is usually needed.
The Interior and Energy Ministers of the Labor Government then in power planned a gradual extension of daylight saving time to meet that goal. But Mr. Suissa and the rightist-religious coalition voted into office last year reversed that trend, reducing the days of daylight saving time this year to 178. Parliament's Interior Committee voted last week to shorten daylight saving time next year even more, ending it on Sept. 6.
"It's depressing," said Zehava Alus, who caught the last rays of sun on a mostly deserted Herzliya beach. "There is religious coercion, and I think the religious will have a decisive influence in the next few years. It's going to be very serious."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Israel has taken a month off daylight saving time to help the observant. A woman and her children awaited the end of morning prayer yesterday. (Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (95%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (78%); 

CITY: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; ISRAEL (95%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (78%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (92%); 

SUBJECT: DAYLIGHT SAVING TIME; YOM KIPPUR RELIGION (90%); YOM KIPPUR (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); CONSERVATISM (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); ELECTIONS (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); CHILDREN (71%); RAMADAN (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: SUISSA, ELI (MIN); GREENBERG, JOEL BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1997



455 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
New Economic Chief Sees Slow March to Open China Markets

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Sept. 22

 BODY:
China's newly elevated economic chief, Zhu Rongji, said today that he planned to move cautiously in opening the nation's markets and exposing its sclerotic state-owned enterprises to foreign competition.
But Mr. Zhu, in his first public comments since becoming one of the country's three top leaders last week, also declared that it was "unreasonable to exclude China from the W.T.O.," a reference to the continued insistence by the United States that China agree to a rigorous timetable for liberalizing its economy before it can join the World Trade Organization. 
 The Clinton Administration, officials in Washington say, is under growing pressure to relax some of those requirements before President Jiang Zemin makes a state visit to Washington late next month. Later this week, Secretary of the Treasury Robert E. Rubin will spend two days in Beijing to set the stage for that meeting.
While Mr. Zhu doled out morsels to a hungry audience of bankers and investors here today -- about new tax policies, protecting China's currency and finding work for millions of laborers whose jobs are threatened by privatization plans -- what he said was nearly overshadowed by how he said it. He joked easily, answered questions right from the floor, and made no effort to minimize the problems of China's deeply troubled banking system.
"It wasn't exactly Oprah," a senior American official said afterward, "but it wasn't the China we are used to seeing."
On a key question many in the audience wanted answered -- how, exactly, China plans to transfer ownership of industries from the Government to some form of shareholding without casting millions of workers into the streets -- Mr. Zhu bobbed and weaved. But that was expected, mainly because he is considered the likely successor to Prime Minister Li Peng next spring. He has nothing to gain by further angering local officials who already view him as the architect of the downsizing process sweeping through China's resolutely noncorporate factories.
For the Clinton Administration, perhaps the stickiest issue Mr. Zhu raised today was Chinese membership in the trade organization, a group of nearly 130 nations pledged to lower tariffs on imported goods and a regimen of steady economic liberalization. Two years ago, the Administration sent China a road map of changes it would have to make before it qualified, including a rapid end to subsidies of state enterprises. While some progress has been made in negotiations, officials fear there has not been enough for Mr. Clinton to declare at the talks next month that China is well on its way to membership.
"This problem will be solved eventually," Mr. Zhu said with a broad smile today. "It is unreasonable to make such demands on China, which is still a developing economy."
There are some hints that the United States may soon back away from its hard-line stance, showing flexibility over the amount of time China will be allowed before it must comply with the rules. Japan has said it is ready to let China into the organization, which also acts as a court of world trading rules. Mr. Rubin is expected to talk about the issue when he meets Mr. Zhu and President Jiang at the end of the week.
There were also hints today that China has been alarmed by the speed with which its Southeast Asian nations fell into a contagious currency crisis in recent weeks. Mr. Zhu said he had been advised to take his time before allowing investors to freely move capital of all kinds across Chinese borders.
The Government-controlled China Daily said today that Liu Jibin, vice minister of finance, was backing away from any quick move to make the Chinese currency fully convertible into dollars, and vice versa. Mr. Liu was quoted as saying that the Southeast Asia crisis had sent "a warning signal" to other developing nations about the dangers of surrendering control of the currency to speculators and investors.
Unlike the smaller Southeast Asians, though, China is coming to the markets well armed. Mr. Zhu disclosed today that foreign exchange reserves now stand at $131.6 billion, one of the highest levels in the world. They are so high, in fact, that officials traveling with Mr. Rubin say they believe the decision to keep that war chest securely in the bank may be unwise when the money could go toward buying power plants and other equipment that could help modernize industries that have changed little since Mao Zedong's death in the mid-70's.
But over the long haul, Mr. Zhu declared today, Washington will get what it seeks: a far more transparent financial system.
"To step up the reform of the financial system," he said, "China will strengthen the currency-regulation function of the central bank and the financial supervisory systems, and promote the commercialization of state-owned banks." It is unclear, however, how he will dispose of huge loans that the banks made for political reasons rather than on the basis of credit-worthiness to failing state industries.
"China will also improve the capital structure and quality of the commercial banks," he concluded, "vigorously but steadily develop and regulate the financial market, improve and enact financial laws and regulations, and learn modern financial-management expertise."
Already, Chinese leaders have found something in common with President Clinton that they can talk about next month: They have all been surprised that revenue has flowed into Government coffers faster than anyone expected.
As a result, Mr. Zhu said, China would restore a series of tax exemptions for foreign technology and other goods that was revoked last year.
"We will resume our policy of tax exemptions as early as possible," he said, leading some in the audience to speculate that in recent months the country had grown worried that American and Japanese companies were slowing their direct investments. Nonetheless, Motorola and General Motors, among others, are planning investments that could run into the hundreds of millions of dollars, and tax incentives might help close the deals.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	 I.M.F. to Raise Assessments
 By Bloomberg News
The International Monetary Fund plans to increase its members' contributions by 45 percent, to the equivalent of $285 billion, reflecting the increased size of the global economy.
In a statement, the I.M.F. said on Saturday that its executive board had agreed to recommend that the amount of money members add to the fund be increased by the equivalent of $88.4 billion.
The contributions, called quotas, determine the amount that a country can borrow from the fund as well as its voting power within the 181-member organization.
The increase comes as the fund is warning private lenders that they may have to share more of the pain in future bailouts like those engineered for Thailand and Mexico.
The United States is the biggest contributor, providing more than 18 percent of contributions, or $36.1 billion. This is to drop under the new formula to 17.73 percent, and the Administration is expected to ask Congress for a further $14.45 billion. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); HONG KONG (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (74%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (74%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); HONG KONG (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (74%); BEIJING, CHINA (74%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (70%); TRENDS (69%); BANK FAILURES (67%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; ZHU RONGJI (DEPUTY PRIME MIN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); JIANG ZEMIN BILL CLINTON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1997



456 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: The Hot Zone: Technology Issues Continue to Rise

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA 

 BODY:
When Wall Street strategists were asked last December to select their favorite sector for the coming year, the choice was just about unanimous: technology.
They have not been disappointed. Through nearly three quarters, shares in technology companies have skyrocketed, largely because of robust sales of personal computers, sharply higher profit margins and a steady stream of news suggesting that technology will rule the stock market roost for some time to come. 
 This year, and especially this summer, technology issues have stormed ahead of almost every other sector, including the consumer goods industry, which has been bolstered by the performance of the likes of Colgate-Palmolive and Wal-Mart Stores.
Yesterday, for instance, technology shares led the market higher after I.B.M. -- one of the industry's senior citizens -- said it had developed a new computer chip using copper rather than aluminum, a manufacturing breakthrough that could result in faster and more powerful chips.
As a result, shares of I.B.M. soared 4 5/8 to 103 7/8, helping lift the Dow Jones industrial average 79.56 points, or 1 percent, to 7,996.83. The Pacific Stock Exchange Technology Index fared even better, gaining 1.6 percent, while the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index rose 2.7 percent, the equivalent of about 218 points on the Dow.
Just last week, the Intel Corporation, the semiconductor giant, said it, too, had developed a new process, one that doubles the storage capacity of some memory chips.
What all this means is more powerful and efficient computers, and with PC sales booming and companies like Microsoft weaving themselves into the lives of growing numbers of Americans, it is no surprise that shareholders are gobbling up more and more high-technology shares.
"At the end of the day, business results drive stock prices," Michael T. Moe, director of growth stocks at Montgomery Securities in San Francisco, said. "And what we've seen is that technology is playing an ever-increasing role in the new economy, in terms of productivity and competitiveness. Investing in technology is mission critical for a lot of companies."
The chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, Alan Greenspan, has probably even intensified the investor hunger for technology as he has cited its key role in enabling the economy to grow at a steady pace without a resurgence in inflation.
There have been setbacks this year, and warnings of profit slowdowns at some high-technology companies -- which may be why some of the best-known technology leaders, like Microsoft, I.B.M. and Intel, have slipped below their all-time highs.
Still, investors seem eager to build on last year's solid gains, when the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite rose 22.7 percent, and the phenomenal returns of 1995, when the Morgan Stanley High-Tech Index rose 50.8 percent.
This year, technology shares have easily outperformed the stock market's major indexes. While the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks is up 29 percent, the Pacific Stock Exchange Technology Index -- an index of 100 of the nation's leading technology companies -- is up 42 percent. The outperformance this summer has been even greater, with the S.& P. 500 index up 6.3 percent since June 20, while the technology index has risen 20.2 percent.
A driving force behind the summer romp was the sector's better-than-expected second-quarter earnings. "They were the best," said Charles Hill, director of research at First Call, which tracks earnings, noting that earnings for technology companies were 29 percent higher than a year ago. "Technology was head and shoulders ahead."
By comparison, earnings of consumer goods companies placed a distant second, Mr. Hill said, with a 14 percent gain. And the outlook for third-quarter profits? First Call said that analysts are estimating a gain of 25 percent for the technology sector over the period last year.
Mary Meeker, a managing director in the technology group at Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Company, said that investors are still rushing into technology stocks because they believe that regardless of the already dizzying ascent of the sector, individual issues can still take off.
"The thing that's driving this is money flows and a good economy," she said. "People are enthusiastic, but there's also a major supply-demand imbalance. And we've also hit an inflection point as far as Internet opportunity goes. People are saying, 'I'm Joe Investor and I missed Yahoo, but I'm not going to miss Amazon.com.' "
Yahoo, the hot Internet search engine stock, is up 373 percent this year, and Amazon.com, the online bookseller, has been in heavy demand recently. Yesterday, more than 1.4 million Amazon.com shares traded hands -- nearly one in every two shares available -- sending the stock up 6 5/8 a share, to 54.
Other big gainers yesterday were Texas Instruments, up 5 a share, to 139 5/8; Micron Technology, up 3 1/8, to 40 1/2, and Dell Computer, up 2 1/16, to 99 13/16. Intel rose 15/16, to 96 3/8, helping push the Nasdaq up 9.09 points, to 1,689.45, another closing high.
Indeed, sales of PC's seem to be fueling much of the optimism. That optimism has driven shares of Dell, the best performing S.& P. 500 stock this year, up 276 percent.
"The fundamental backdrop has been better than people expected," said Roger McNamee, a principal at Integral Partners. "The PC industry has seen phenomenal growth."
Mr. McNamee noted that this performance has come even as the industry has seen its share of problems this summer. "There's been a lot of bad news the market has just shrugged off," he said. "At the moment, investors are choosing to see something half full as overflowing."
 
ON THE WEB
The latest stock and mutual fund quotations, along with news updates, are available on the Internet from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. (pg. 17)
 
Graphs: "Beating the Summertime Blues"
Alghough there has long been talk of a summer slowdown in technology shares, in the past three summers they have generally outperformed the broader market. Plotted are the percent changes of the Pacific Stock Exchange Technology Index and the S. & P. 500 from June 21 to Sept. 22 of 1995, 1996, and 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (92%); WMT (NYSE) (57%); CL (NYSE) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); MS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (92%); WAL-MART STORES INC (57%); COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%); PACIFIC STOCK EXCHANGE (91%); PACIFIC STOCK EXCHANGE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: PACIFIC STOCK EXCHANGE (91%); PACIFIC STOCK EXCHANGE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; PACIFIC STOCK EXCHANGE TECHNOLOGY INDEX; PHILADELPHIA SEMICONDUCTOR INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; SALES STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (89%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); SEMICONDUCTORS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BONDS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); MICROPROCESSORS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); MEMORY CHIPS (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (54%); 

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1997



457 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1576 words

HEADLINE: New York Police Issues Echo In Houston's Race for Mayor

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Sept. 22

 BODY:
Lee P. Brown has never been known as the most loquacious of men. When he was Atlanta's Commissioner of Public Safety nearly 20 years ago, he spoke so tersely at public briefings that he acquired the nickname "No Rap Brown," a contrast to H. Rap Brown, the fiery former Black Panther leader.
And when he served as New York City's Police Commissioner, from 1990 to 1992, Mr. Brown also had a reputation for remoteness, one that singed him with controversy during the 1991 racial riots in the Crown Heights section of Brooklyn. A state inquiry concluded that "a leadership vacuum existed at the highest levels" of the Police Department during the affair, in which violent clashes between black and Jewish residents took place. 
 But here in Houston, where he served eight years as police chief and was widely credited with revamping a troubled department, Mr. Brown is positively expansive these days. He is basking in his standing as the current front-runner in this fall's race for Mayor. If he wins the election, he will be the first black mayor, indeed the first mayor from any racial minority group, in Houston's history.
Mr. Brown declares himself to have "a volcano in the belly," lest anyone question whether there is fire therein, and he is campaigning ferociously in the nation's fourth-largest city, outlining his vision of Houston as a "premier world-class city." And he is proclaiming his own record in law enforcement, even taking credit for the drop in New York City's crime rate under Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani.
"Anyone who's honest will tell you that crime is going down because of the foundation I laid," he says, offering an assessment shared by some crime experts. "He's benefiting from the groundwork that David Dinkins and I laid there in New York." And, so far, Crown Heights is not an issue in his campaign here, perhaps because Mr. Brown has warned his competitors that raising it could disturb the "sacred ground" of black-Jewish relations in Houston.
With the all-but-official support of Houston's popular incumbent Mayor, Bob Lanier, a wealthy developer who cannot run for re-election because of a term-limit law, Mr. Brown is widely acknowledged to be the likely leader in a crowded mayoral field in the city's election on Nov. 4.
But his path to city hall is by no means guaranteed, because he is not likely to capture the required 50 percent of the vote in the election. At least four candidates are considered to have a shot at finishing second and forcing a runoff a few weeks later.
Two strong challengers are Rob Mosbacher, a Houston businessman and the son of the Bush Administration's Commerce Secretary, Robert Mosbacher. The younger Mr. Mosbacher brings considerable financial resources to his campaign. Another candidate, George Greanias, is a former City Controller who is riding a solid reputation as a watchdog and proven citywide vote-getter.
Also running is City Councilwoman Helen Huey, whose supporters see her in the mold of Mr. Giuliani and Richard J. Riordan, Republicans who successfully stormed the Democratic bastions of city hall in New York and Los Angeles, respectively. And City Councilwoman Gracie Saenz is hoping to become the first Hispanic Mayor in a city where Hispanic residents now outnumber black residents, who were the largest minority group. But Hispanics vote in much lower percentages than other ethnic groups because more than half of the Hispanic adults here are not citizens, experts say.
But virtually all these candidates agree that Mr. Brown, who retired as New York's Police Commissioner to spend time with his dying wife, served as the nation's drug czar during President Clinton's first term and was also Atlanta's police chief, will be the man to beat. He returned to Houston in late 1995 to teach at Rice University's James A. Baker 3d Institute for Public Policy.
So far the campaign here has been remarkably genteel, with the major candidates engaging in so many joint appearances that they have taken to joking about being able to deliver one another's debate remarks. They have also cooperated in establishing an unusual site on the World Wide Web (www.MayorsRace.com), where all of the candidates have posted information about their qualifications and campaign pledges.
Much of the discourse has not electrified voters. During a debate here a few days ago, sponsored by the Community Associations Institute, the very first question on the agenda was: "What is your position on the expansion of the trash sponsorship program to include all homesteaded units in homeowner associations?"
So far, the turmoil in Crown Heights is perhaps the most controversial episode in Mr. Brown's long law enforcement career. But he dismissed criticism as "New York politics." There has been little interest in the issue here. "I think the report was a political report," said Mr. Brown, brushing aside conclusions by then-Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's top criminal-justice adviser that Mr. Brown "failed to fulfill his ultimate responsibility" in the Crown Heights episode. The trouble began when a car in the motorcade of Lubavitcher Rebbe Menachem M. Schneerson struck and killed a 7-year-old black boy, leading to clashes among blacks, Hasidim and the police, during which a 29-year-old Hasidic scholar was fatally stabbed.
"It's New York politics," continued Mr. Brown. "And everyone knows that New York politics is different than any other place in the country. I think the citizens of Houston understand that." Mr. Brown criticized the report, saying he believed the police response successfully prevented more violence.
But some candidates here have privately suggested that if they make the runoff, they would seek to make the Crown Heights violence and Mr. Brown's leadership there an issue. Mr. Brown already seems to be offering a counterattack by suggesting that hammering on Crown Heights might be racially divisive.
"I won't let anybody create negative relationships between the African-American community and the Jewish community, because I do consider this to be sacred ground," the former police commissioner said in an interview at his campaign headquarters just outside of downtown Houston. "We've gone through too much together over the years to allow anyone to try to separate us."
Houston sometimes likes to describe itself as one of the city's few truly "tri-ethnic" cities. Its 1.8 million residents are close to being evenly split: about 26 percent are black, about 33 percent Hispanic, about 6 or 7 percent Asian and the rest Caucasian, city demographers estimate.
But the typical pool of voters in a Mayor's race has been 28 percent black, 8 to 10 percent Hispanic, and the rest white or Asian, said Tatcho Mendiola, a sociology professor and director of the Center for Mexican American Studies at the University of Houston. This breakdown could make the bid by Ms. Saenz, whose campaign is not as well financed as Mr. Brown's or Mr. Mosbacher's, an uphill battle.
Houston has never had a Mayor who was a member of a racial minority group, although the city was on the verge of electing State Representative Sylvester Turner, who is black, six years ago, until a last-minute campaign controversy helped propel Mr. Lanier into office.
This time, Mr. Brown was clearly helped when Mr. Turner and Representative Sheila Jackson-Lee, who is black, decided to sit out the race. With support from a coterie of Mr. Lanier's advisers and downtown business leaders, as well as his base in the black community, Mr. Brown is clearly in a strong position to win, said Bob Stein, a political scientist and dean of the School of Social Sciences at Rice University.
So the most intriguing question now is: Who will make the expected runoff? Most speculation focuses on Mr. Mosbacher, expected to be omnipresent in television campaign commercials, and Mr. Greanias, the former controller and often a strident critic of Mr. Lanier.
Mr. Greanias, though not as flush with cash, is the "sleeper" in the race, said Professor Stein, a longtime observer of Houston politics.
Mayor Lanier "has done everything humanly possible, and then some, to make it impossible for George to get money," Mr. Stein said. "But he may have done too much."
So far, virtually all of the candidates have refrained from attacking one another too stridently. Mr. Greanias said he would largely stick to describing his own qualifications and plans. "I've run my own race, speaking to the issues, the way I've won four citywide races before me," Mr. Greanias said in an interview, though he added that was "four more than either of the other two leading candidates have."
Mr. Mosbacher, who has run unsuccessful statewide races for United States Senator and Lieutenant Governor, said his experience in business makes him the best qualified to lead Houston into the global economy of the future. He also said he would stress his qualifications, though he described the Crown Heights episode as "fair game" in a one-on-one race with Mr. Brown, who in turn predicted that attempts to use the issue "won't float" here.
"I think people in Houston watched me for eight years, and they know my career of 35 years," Mr. Brown said. "And they would not by any means conclude that that one three-day period in life where someone issued a bad report -- and I mean literally bad in terms of its methodology, bad in terms of its conclusions -- would be a method of judging Lee Brown for Mayor."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lee P. Brown, center, the leading Houston mayoral candidate, has faced little recent criticism for his role as New York's Police Commissioner during the 1991 violence in the Crown Heights section of Brooklyn. (F. Carter Smith for The New York Times)(pg. A22)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON (TEX); NEW YORK CITY; ; CROWN HEIGHTS (NYC); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MAYORS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ELECTIONS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; BLACKS; ELECTION ISSUES MAYORS (92%); POLICE FORCES (92%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CITIES (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (87%); RIOTS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (72%); TRENDS (72%); TERM LIMITS (67%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE; BROWN, LEE P; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1997



458 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Congresswoman Declares for Connecticut Governor

BYLINE: By JONATHAN RABINOVITZ 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Sept. 22

 BODY:
Barbara Bailey Kennelly, scion of one of Connecticut's most powerful political families, announced today she would leave Congress after 18 years to try to unseat Gov. John G. Rowland.
Mrs. Kennelly, 61, who as vice chairwoman of the House Democratic Caucus is the fourth-ranking Democrat in the House of Representatives, took to the stump this afternoon promising to reunite a divided State Democratic Party that her father had once ruled without peer. 
 John M. Bailey was the boss who ran the state party from 1947 until his death in 1975. Mr. Bailey also was in John F. Kennedy's inner circle, one of Mr. Kennedy's earliest supporters and the man Mr. Kennedy named as chairman of the Democratic National Committee, a position Mr. Bailey held from 1960 through 1968.
Mrs. Kennelly's decision comes as Democrats attempt to win back almost a dozen governors' offices that they lost in the 1994 Republican landslide, when Republicans took control of a majority of the state executive offices. Mr. Rowland's victory that year was the first time Republicans had taken the governor's office in Connecticut in 20 years.
For months, many Democrats had been urging Mrs. Kennelly to challenge Mr. Rowland, and her deliberations had been closely watched. Even before she declared her intentions, two independent polls in June and July showed her in a virtual dead heat with Mr. Rowland. No other Democrat approached her strength.
Before a packed room in the Old State House here, a museum believed to be the oldest state house in the country, Mrs. Kennelly (pronounced ken-NELL-lee) said, "This is the place where I can make the biggest difference: right here at home." As she spoke, one supporter in the audience of several hundred waved a sign saying, "Barbara Bailey, Please Come Home to the Mansion," a reference to the governor's residence.
In an interview later, Mrs. Kennelly said that she had been thinking of her father, who never saw her take elective office, as she made today's announcement.
"I don't think he ever imagined that some day his daughter would be running for governor," she said. "He would have been very happy this afternoon. The Connecticut Democratic Party was his life. What I hope I can do is bring it back together." But Mrs. Kennelly's nomination is not guaranteed. William E. Curry Jr., the Democrat who lost to Mr. Rowland in 1994 after a bruising primary, declared his candidacy this summer, and has made a career out of pulling off upsets. Others, like Mayor Joseph Ganim of Bridgeport, are still eying the race.
"I'm in it all the way, and I'm in it to win," Mr. Curry said today. "I believe I not only would be the better governor, but also that I would be the strongest person to prosecute the case against John Rowland."
State Representative Chris DePino, the State Republican Party chairman, said, "Despite what she thinks, there's no monarchy in Democratic Party politics in Connecticut." Mr. DePino called her a "Washington insider" who was running on the "platform of Democratic politics past, the ghost that haunted the state until John Rowland became Governor."
Yet, in some respects, it is also that Democratic past that Republicans fear.
Until 1990, when an independent, Lowell P. Weicker, won the governor's office, the Democrats had controlled the office for every term but one since 1955. Mr. Rowland's victory in 1994 came in a four-way race after conservative Democrats abandoned the party when the moderate candidate, who had been endorsed by the party organization, was defeated in a primary.
At Mrs. Kennelly's news conference, she already appeared to be a unifying force. She was joined by former advisers to an earlier Democratic Governor, William A. O'Neill, and she won praise from top labor leaders who had backed Mr. Curry three years ago.
"I haven't seen this wide a range of Democrats in quite a while," said Patty McQueen, a Democratic Party consultant.
Mr. Rowland is a formidable opponent, a charismatic campaigner who has seen the state's economy rebound during his tenure. But Democrats insist he is vulnerable. In 1994, he won with only 36 percent of the vote, and polls suggest that his support among women is weak, while Mrs. Kennelly's appears to be strong.
Mrs. Kennelly said that she would finish out her term in Congress, but obviously could not seek re-election if she wins her party's nomination. The decision to leave the House was not easy, she said, and twice before she had passed up the chance to run for governor.
Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat, said Mrs. Kennelly may have chosen to stay in Congress because she was a ranking member of the Ways and Means Committee when Democrats held the majority. Although it is an honor to be caucus vice chairwoman, "it's not a great deal of power," he said.
"I'd rather be a senior member of the majority than head of the Democratic caucus in the minority," Mr. Schumer said.
But Mrs. Kennelly denied that this was a big factor, saying that ultimately she had "a lot of energy" and wanted to put it into a job that would most benefit the people of Connecticut. Her four children are grown, and her husband, James Kennelly, the former Speaker of the State House of Representatives, died two years ago.
At her announcement, Mrs. Kennelly never mentioned Mr. Rowland by name. But she took some swipes. At one point, she described her vision of a Connecticut "where public service is a public trust of the highest order," which many interpreted as a reference to ethical questions plaguing Mr. Rowland.
Although Mrs. Kennelly never mentioned the phrase "tax cut," the driving theme in Mr. Rowland's administration, Mrs. Kennelly indirectly referred to Mr. Rowland's campaign promise to repeal the state income tax by 2000, a pledge that it does not look Mr. Rowland will be able to honor.
Mrs. Kennelly said, "I can make my first promise about taxes to the people of the state of Connecticut today: If I make them a promise about taxes, I'll keep it."
Mrs. Kennelly became involved in politics in the early 1970's, when she was a member of the Hartford City Council. In 1978, she was elected Secretary of the State, and in 1982 was elected to Congress.
Among her colleagues in the Connecticut delegation, the mood was jubilant.
"Barbara Kennelly is Connecticut," said Representative Rosa DeLauro, Democrat of New Haven, who is supporting her. "It's in her blood."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Barbara Bailey Kennelly, after announcing yesterday at the Old State House in Hartford that she will run for governor. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (56%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%); 

PERSON: RABINOVITZ, JONATHAN; KENNELLY, BARBARA BAILEY (REPR); ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV) JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1997



459 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-16
 
Refugees' Stories Back Massacre Reports in Congo
Hutu refugees' tales have given added force to concerns that the forces of Laurent Kabila, who is now the President, may have massacred people in Congo, the former Zaire, well after they had taken the upper hand in the civil war that led to Mr. Kabila taking power. A6 

Polish Leader Ponders Strategy
After the surprise victory of the Solidarity coalition in Poland's elections, Marian Krzaklewski, the party leader, has set about clarifying his intentions and building a Government. He has said that he would prefer to run his party's parliamentary caucus than to be made Prime Minister. Many think that he would prefer to wait three years and run against President Aleksander Kwasniewski, a former Communist. A16
 
Clinton Addresses the U.N.
President Clinton told the United Nations General Assembly that he is asking the Senate to ratify the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty. In all, 146 nations have signed the treaty, but of the 44 countries that must ratify it, only Japan has done so. Mr. Clinton also urged the creation of a permanent international court by the end of the century to prosecute "the most serious violations of humanitarian law." A3
 
Pakistan Leader Courts India
Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif of Pakistan invited India to open negotiations on a mutual "nonaggression pact." After his speech to the United Nations General Assembly, he dined with President Clinton and Prime Minister I. K. Gujral of India. A8
 
Gore Presses Russia on Bill
Vice President Al Gore said his first topic in talks with Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin of Russia in the town of Bor was the United States's objection to a new bill designed to protect the Russian Orthodox Church against competition from other Christian faiths. A11
 
Challenge to Serb Socialists
Partial returns in the Serbian presidential and parliamentary elections forecast the need for a second round of voting for the presidency, a setback for the Socialist alliance of Yugoslavia's President, Slobodan Milosevic. The hard-line nationalist Radical Prty was close behind the Socialists, and the returns indicated that no party would win an outright parliamentary majority. A boycott by opposition parties hoping that an inadequate turnout would invalidate the elections failed. A12
 
South African Lawsuit Dropped
South Africa's National Party dropped its lawsuit against the country's Truth and Reconciliation Commission. The party relented after receiving formal apologies from two of the commission's leaders for remarks they made about the credibility of the testimony of former President F. W. de Klerk in May. Mr. de Klerk had said his party, which ruled South Africa during apartheid, had never authorized killings to combat anti-apartheid forces. A7
 
NATIONAL A18-25
 
Thalidomide May Be Used To Treat Several Diseases
Thalidomide, the drug whose use in the 1960's produced thousands of deformed babies, is on the verge of receiving approval from the Food and Drug Administration for use in leprosy patients, nearly four decades after the agency rejected it for use in the United States. But experts expect doctors to begin prescribing it quickly for "off-label" uses. Thalidomide has been experiencing a revival of sorts, and scientists are experimenting with it for everything from AIDS to brain cancer and other autoimmune diseases. A1
 
Clinton Defends Fund-Raising
President Clinton said he was confident neither he nor his campaign broke "the letter of the law" in fund-raising. But the chairman of the Senate committee investigating the question says everything he has found points toward the need for an independent counsel. A1
 
Lee Brown in a Mayor's Race
Lee P. Brown, the former New York City police commissioner, is the current front-runner in this fall's race for Mayor in Houston, in which victory would make him the first black mayor in the city's history. A1
 
F.D.A. Bill Nears Vote
A bill to speed review for many medical devices and drugs is expected to come to a vote on the Senate floor this week. Senator Edward M. Kennedy has filibustered the legislation, which outlines the authority given to the Food and Drug Administration, winning concessions for causes he calls "pro-consumer." A20
 
Rise Seen in Tobacco Profits
Tobacco industry profits could soar as much as $123 billion under terms of a legal settlement proposed in June by 40 state attorneys general and cigarette makers, according to an analysis by the Federal Trade Commission. A21
 
Marv Albert Trial Begins
Marv Albert, the NBC sportscaster, pleaded not guilty to charges of sodomy and assault against a 42-year-old Virginia woman in a hotel room in Arlington last February as his trial began in state court. A22
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-10
 
Crew Rejects School's Plan To Preserve Teaching Job
A group of parents who raised more than $46,000 to preserve a teacher's job and keep class size down at their school were rebuffed by Chancellor Rudy Crew, who said the fund-raising drive was unfair to other schools with large class sizes. A1
 
Mayoral Rivals Trade Charges
Mayor Giuliani and Ruth W. Messinger delved into the past, searching for information that they could use to derail each other's mayoral candidacies. The Mayor accused Ms. Messinger of holding a party in 1979 for an inmate convicted of killing an Attica Prison guard. Ms. Messinger responded by saying Mr. Giuliani tried to dodge the draft in 1969. B3
 
Sharpton Wins Round in Court
A New York State Supreme Court justice ordered an immediate hearing into the Rev. Al Sharpton's allegation that he was unfairly denied a runoff bid because the vote count following the Democratic mayoral primary on Sept. 9 was riddled with fraud and other irregularities. B3
 
SCIENCE TIMES F1-8
 
Sun Tied to Global Warming
Scientists are developing an increasing body of evidence that links solar variations to climate shifts on Earth -- perhaps rivaling human pollution as a factor in global warming. F1
 
HEALTH F9
 
Doubts on Growth Treatment
A large study has cast strong doubt on the increasingly common practice of giving growth hormone injections to short children to help them reach an average height. F9
 
OBITUARIES D27
 
EDITORIAL A26-27
 
Editorials: Patronage in the counting house; the ingredients of peace; sham ethics.
 
Columns: Russell Baker, A. M. Rosenthal.
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-21
 
Seagram Buys Network Stake
Seagram agreed to pay Viacom $1.7 billion for the 50 percent of the cable programming service, USA Network, it does not already own. D1
 
China Plans Cautious Opening
China's newly elevated economic czar, Zhu Rongji, said he planned to move cautiously in opening up China's market and exposing its sclerotic Government-owned enterprises to foreign competition. D1
 
Rights to Java Defended
Sun Microsystems said it would not give up ownership of the Java computer language, as Microsoft and other companies have suggested, in order to have it officially certified as an international standard. D7
 
Business Digest D1
 
SPORTS C1-8
 
ARTS E1-8
 
A New 'Lolita' Controversy
"Lolita," a new film remake of the novel, is about to open across Europe but not in the United States, where major distributors have so far shunned Vladimir Nabokov's disturbing story of an older man's passion for a prepubescent girl. E1
 
Troubled Industry of Broadway
The New York theater industry is still in decline and beset by rising costs and lagging audiences despite some signs of life, an unusually detailed industry-sponsored study has concluded. E1
 
Chess F5
 
Weather D26
 
Crossword E8

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: INDIA (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); POLAND (93%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); SERBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); POLAND (93%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); SERBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (88%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); LITIGATION (87%); RELIGION (86%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); CIVIL WAR (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CAUCUSES (75%); COMPREHENSIVE TEST BAN TREATY (68%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (68%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); AL GORE (57%); NAWAZ SHARIF (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1997



460 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: Clinton, at U.N., Says He'll Press Senate on Test Ban Pact

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 22

 BODY:
 Almost a year after signing it, President Clinton announced here today that he was asking the Senate to approve the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty, which he called "the longest-sought, hardest-fought prize in the history of arms control."
In a speech to the General Assembly that was intended to lay out his vision for protecting nations, human rights and the environment while fostering international prosperity, Mr. Clinton also urged the creation of a permanent international court by the end of the century to prosecute "the most serious violations of humanitarian law." 
 He spoke after the United Nations Secretary General, Kofi Annan, issued a tart plea for all nations to pay their debts to the United Nations, and Mr. Clinton promised that the United States would shortly repay most of the more than $1 billion that it owes. But mindful of the demands of Republicans in Congress, he continued to insist that the United Nations change its scale for assessing dues and ask less of the United States in the future.
While the President declared passage of the nuclear test ban treaty, which would ban all nuclear explosions, one of his top priorities, some senior Republicans said they doubted that the treaty would come to a vote this year.
For the bulk of his 21-minute address to the 52d session of the General Assembly, Mr. Clinton described what he saw as the possibilities at "the dawn of a new millennium" and the international arrangements necessary to take advantage of them.
"The forces of global integration are a great tide, inexorably wearing away the established order of things," he said. "But we must decide what will be left in its wake."
Declaring that "we're all vulnerable to the reckless acts of rogue states and to an unholy axis of terrorists, drug traffickers and international criminals," Mr. Clinton argued that military and trade alliances, as well as arms control agreements, could create a protective "web of institutions and arrangements."
Through such measures, he said, "nations are now setting the international ground rules for the 21st century, laying a foundation for security and prosperity for those who live within them, while isolating those who challenge them from the outside."
In his survey of binding international agreements, the President did not mention the ban on land mines drafted last week in Oslo. Although he called for such a ban in a speech here three years ago, the United States does not plan to sign the Oslo measure, because it did not include exceptions that the Clinton Administration said were essential for American security.
After his speech, Mr. Clinton attended a United Nations luncheon and also met individually with three foreign officials. In a half-hour conversation with Russia's Foreign Minister, Yevgeny M. Primakov, he discussed the state of the peacekeeping mission in Bosnia. Mr. Primakov assured him that the Russians would not oppose elections that the Bosnian Serb President, Biljana Plavsic, has called for next month, according to an account of the meeting provided by Samuel R. Berger, Mr. Clinton's national security adviser.
Mr. Berger said Mr. Clinton had expressed concerns about a law passed by the Russian Parliament last week protecting the Russian Orthodox Church from competition from other Christian denominations.
Mr. Clinton also met today with the Prime Minister of Pakistan, Nawaz Sharif, and the Prime Minister of India, Inder Kumar Gujral. The Indians have resisted the test ban. But according to a State Department account of their meeting, Mr. Gujral assured the President that "we would be pleased to engage you in discussion" on the ban and other matters.
The White House waited a year to send the test ban treaty to Congress in part because it wanted to secure approval of a treaty banning chemical weapons first. Further, the Administration has been analyzing the treaty to see precisely what it prohibits.
"We've certainly not been idle," said Bob Bell, senior director of the National Security Council. "We've worked very, very hard on this the last year to get the whole package ready for the Senate."
Mr. Bell said that rather than testing, the United States would maintain its nuclear arsenal through a "science-based, stockpile stewardship program," costing about $4.5 billion a year. Some Senate Republicans, however, harbor doubts that such a program, which uses laboratory experiments and computer simulations, can effectively replace test explosions in maintaining the arsenal.
Marc A. Thiessen, a spokesman for Senator Jesse Helms, the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said the ban "is not something that's on the front burner of the committee right now." He noted that 44 countries believed to have some sort of nuclear capability, whether for electricity, weapons or research, must approve the treaty before it takes effect. "That's certainly not going to happen in the next year, and may not happen in the next decade," he said.
But the Administration argues that the United States should take a leadership role by approving the treaty soon. "We intend to win this vote, and failure is not an option," Mr. Bell said. Of the 44 countries that must approve the treaty, only Japan has done so. In all, 146 nations have signed the treaty.
In his speech today, Mr. Clinton said the United Nations could play a crucial role, not only in keeping the peace and protecting human rights, but also in making sure that "as the global economy creates greater wealth, it does not produce growing disparities between the haves and have-nots, or threaten the global environment -- our common home."
He praised Ted Turner, the broadcast executive who last week announced he would give $1 billion for United Nations projects, as "a truly visionary American."
"His gesture highlights the potential for partnership between the U.N. and the private sector," he said. "I hope more will follow his lead."
Mr. Clinton said Congress's move toward paying most of America's back dues reflected "a strong bipartisan commitment to the United Nations and to America's role within it."
He said that while he supported expanding the Security Council -- a move that has strong opposition in the Senate -- he also wanted to see the scale for assessing dues changed.
"In more equitably sharing responsibility for its successes," Mr. Clinton said, "we can make the U.N. stronger and more democratic than it is today."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton told the United Nations yesterday that he was asking the Senate to approve the nuclear test ban treaty. Later he greeted Secretary General Kofi Annan, right, who urged payment of U.N. debts. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

CITY: OSLO, NORWAY (50%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS AMERICAN SECURITY SHREDDING (50%); AMERICAN SECURITY DISTRIBUTION (50%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); OSLO, NORWAY (50%); 

SUBJECT: ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; ATOMIC WEAPONS; NUCLEAR TESTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FINANCES; WAR CRIMES AND CRIMINALS ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); COMPREHENSIVE TEST BAN TREATY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (89%); APPROVALS (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); LANDMINES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PEACEKEEPING (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (76%); WAR CRIMES (76%); MILLENNIUM (70%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (70%); TERRORISM (66%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BENNET, JAMES BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1997



461 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1997
(New Jersey)

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 78 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Daily Briefing;
Economy Nears Full Recovery

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY 

DATELINE: MORRISTOWN

 BODY:
Five years after the end of the deep, punishing recession of the late 1980's and early 1990's, New Jersey's economy stands on the brink of a full recovery. 
 Fueled by industries like consulting and law, accounting and telecommunications, the state has raced ahead of New York and Connecticut and, economists say, has achieved a sustainable new pattern of growth. As of August, it had regained all but 3 percent of the jobs lost in the downturn. [Page A1.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (88%); TRENDS (86%); 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JESSE

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1997



462 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2194 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC PULSE: New Jersey;
Diversity Propels New Jersey In Region Stung by a Recession

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON 

DATELINE: MORRISTOWN, N.J., Sept. 19

 BODY:
Five years after the end of the deep, punishing recession of the late 1980's and early 1990's, New Jersey's economy stands on the brink, finally, of full recovery.
Fueled by industries like consulting and law, accounting and telecommunications, the state has raced ahead of New York and Connecticut and, economists say, has achieved a sustainable new pattern of growth. As of August, it had regained all but 3 percent of the jobs lost in the downturn. 
 New Jersey's resurgence, economists say, owes much to its economic diversity. Going into the 1990's, the state was far less dependent on military manufacturing, for example, than Connecticut or Long Island, where the end of the cold war laid whole industries to waste. Many of New Jersey's largest corporations did not contract with the same severity as did those in New York and Connecticut in the waves of early 1990's downsizing.
And the recession, while far worse here than in the rest of the country, was also milder than in New York City, which lost 10 percent of its jobs and has gained only 40 percent of them back, or Connecticut, which also lost 10 percent and has recaptured about 66 percent.
"We have emerged in a very enviable position," said Joseph J. Seneca, an economist at Rutgers University and the chairman of the New Jersey Council of Economic Advisors, which reports on the economy to the state government. "I see steady, modest growth for the rest of the decade."
Business people also credit Gov. Christine Todd Whitman with making the state more business friendly, by providing help to companies and making the state bureaucracy easier to deal with. But she is apparently not getting the same credit from voters. The political maxim that an incumbent always benefits from a growing economy is being challenged, with polls showing anxiety among voters about their place in the new prosperity.
"Things have changed, people have changed -- in the 1990's, decision making and spending are more tempered," said Bob Lowenstein, the owner of Jodo Gifts, an institution here on the Morristown green since before World War II. Mr. Lowenstein, standing outside his shop on a recent warm day, paused for perhaps the fifth or sixth time to say hello to friends or customers passing by.
"In the 1980's, you didn't have to work so hard," he said. "It was all more free flowing."
Economists agree that New Jersey's economy, from its corporate boardrooms to its smallest towns, does move to different rhythms in the late 1990's and that any analysis of strength is inevitably followed by a string of caveats. The state lost about the same percentage of its jobs as the rest of the region -- 7.1 percent of its total job base disappeared from 1989 to 1992, compared with about 7 percent in New York and 10.2 percent in Connecticut.
But it recovered differently, and suffered less from the corporate job cutting that plagued its neighbors. From 1991 to 1996, New Jersey actually gained jobs in companies with more than 1,000 employees. New York and Connecticut both lost heavily.
At the same time, the state's population growth has stagnated. Its cost advantage over New York City, long a great trump card in the region, has narrowed. Once a center of heavy industry, the state now has fewer manufacturing jobs than at any time since the eve of World War I. The cities and rural southern areas have been left behind. And while New Jersey may be a standout performer locally, the rest of the United States has moved ahead much faster. Most places made up the jobs lost in the recession years ago.
In her speeches and commercials, Governor Whitman has made the economy a cornerstone of her campaign for re-election, stressing repeatedly how much things have improved and how much promise the economy holds out for the future.
"The message is that New Jersey is stronger economically than it was four years ago, with far more jobs and lower taxes and a future that holds great promise and opportunity for all New Jerseyans," she said in a statement. "Jersey has come a long way."
Her opponent, State Senator James E. McGreevey, said that the state's job gains, a total that includes many low-wage jobs, must be measured against what has been lost, particularly in manufacturing.
"New Jersey will not retain its strategic position as a world-class economy by permitting its manufacturing base to hemorrhage while replacing it with food stores," Mr. McGreevey said.
 
Just Look Around, Store Owner Says
People like Mr. Lowenstein, the card store owner, say it is easy to see places where the state's bounty has not penetrated, or where things have actually gotten worse in the 1990's.
All he has to do is look down the block from his store. Four major businesses in prime locations facing the green have closed in the past few years. Barnes & Noble got rid of its smaller stores to focus on superstores. Macy's closed what it called "underperforming assets." A clothier based in Boston returned there. Shoetown went out of business.
Mr. Lowenstein said the closings sharply reduced the volume of walk-in traffic at his store and that to stay in business he had to find new customers. So he reached out to the giant corporations that surround the town. He changed his inventory to suit them -- more pens and watches and expensive-looking performance trophies. About 50 percent of his sales now come from the companies and their employees.
But he has realized, in watching those new customers shop, that many are scarred by the consolidations, closings and staff reductions that have become familiar themes in the resurgence of corporate America. And the same forces bolstering the corporate bottom line outside town are keeping a lid on the growth within.
"We've survived by being innovative," said Mr. Lowenstein "But everybody's careful now. Everybody's cautious."
A bedrock principle of local economics and politics in the New York region has been this: New Jersey is a bargain. This theme has touched off countless economic border wars and advertising campaigns and has colored the state's identity. Because the state had been less developed than Long Island or Westchester, land had been plentiful. Housing costs and wages had been lower.
But that gap has narrowed. The huge growth in commercial office space in the 1980's ate up land and raised prices. A growing sophistication in the telecommunications business, the state's largest single industry, boosted salaries. Perhaps most crucially, the cost of doing business in New York City fell by about 6.8 percent from 1989 to 1996, led by declines in labor costs, which have been held down by high unemployment.
In New Jersey, by contrast, only one of the five metropolitan areas in the state as classified by the Census Bureau -- Monmouth and Ocean Counties -- saw business costs fall by more than 2 percent. Two areas -- Bergen-Passaic and Trenton -- saw business costs rise.
"New Jersey is not a cheap buy anymore," said Mark Zandi, the chief economist at the Regional Financial Association, a West Chester, Pa., economic research firm.
New York City, of course, remains far more costly than New Jersey overall, not to mention being more costly than most of the rest of the country. But the playing field has unquestionably leveled.
The shift toward higher prices is starkly visible in Jersey City at a giant housing and commercial complex called Newport, begun in the 1980's by the Lefrak Organization of Rego Park, Queens. The apartment towers completed before the recession were built for bargain hunters. The new generation of post-recession towers, the first of which is to be finished next month, has larger, nicer kitchens, better hardwood floors -- and higher rent. A 16th-floor two-bedroom apartment in the 1980's buildings rents for about $1,750; in the new building, such units start at $2,232.
Corporations are also making decisions differently now, and that is pushing prices higher. Stanley C. Gale, a principal at Gale & Wentworth, a developer that is building one of the largest office projects in the region, said that as corporate profits have risen, the relative importance of a slightly cheaper location has declined. That has forced his projects -- three buildings going up in Florham Park, just outside Morristown -- to compete by using better materials and designs.
As New Jersey's costs become more like those elsewhere in the region, the state will have to promote its other advantages -- its work force, quality of life, the quality of its schools -- Mr. Gale said. Finding those new selling points, he said, will change the state for the better.
"New Jersey is still attractive," he said. "But the cost disparities just aren't as large as they once were. That era is over."
New Jersey has added jobs in the 1990's both at the high end of the wage scale, in fields like information technology and computer software, and at the low end, in businesses like warehousing, where workers are loading trucks and processing orders for retail stores.
But the reasons for the job growth are completely opposite: High-wage jobs are growing because of an intense demand for people with certain skills, while low-wage jobs are growing, economists and business people say, because there is a big supply of workers, especially immigrants, who are available and willing to work for low pay.
Places like Bell Labs, now part of Lucent Technologies, show the high-end growth. The lab, based in Murray Hill, split in half last year when A T & T broke apart. Half the lab personnel went to Lucent, which kept the Bell Labs name, and half went to a new entity, A T & T Labs. For the company, and the New Jersey economy, the outlook was deeply uncertain.
But a year and half later, taken together the two labs have grown bigger than the old Bell Labs was before.
Both labs, spokesmen said, have increased their staffs in voice-recognition research in particular, as computers, telephones, traditional television broadcasting and Internet technology have merged.
Luis M. Ramos sees the other side. An assistant manager at a union affiliated with the garment workers union known as Unite, Mr. Ramos said that the kinds of employers he sees expanding in the state can find people happy to work for $5.50 an hour.
 
'They Line Up For Overtime'
In the airtight labor markets in the South, where many New York-based retailers have established distribution sites in recent years, warehouse workers demand and get $8.50 an hour or more, Mr. Ramos said, and employers say that they will not work overtime. In New Jersey, Mr. Ramos said, "They line up for overtime."
And in some cases, working people do not show up on economic charts at all. After years of dreaming about it, Jarmina Perez and her husband, Julian, opened Queen Bee Flowers, a flower shop in downtown Jersey City last summer. The store is large, airy and bustling, and Mrs. Perez hovers about like any proud business owner. But she laughs at the idea of paying anyone, at least for now. All her workers are family members -- her children, daughter-in-law and brother-in-law.
"I can't afford employees," she said. "I just feed them."
In New Jersey's last boom, in the 1980's, the great engines of its growth were local institutions with deep roots: Prudential Insurance Company, based in Newark, and the Chubb Corporation, based in Warren. The state's banks were major participants as well.
 
Power Has Shifted To Wall Street
Now those institutions have retreated. The new power comes from Wall Street, specifically the big pension funds and the real estate investment trusts that raise money by selling shares to the public. The rise of the trusts is certainly a national phenomenon, but in New Jersey, where so much of the 1980's boom centered on real estate, the implications of the change go deeper.
In effect, ownership of huge swaths of industrial and commercial property in New Jersey has moved out of state -- to the stock market.
It has also become concentrated: One of the largest trusts in the region, Cali Realty Corporation, is merging with another trust, the Mack Company. Together they would own 8 percent of the state's entire office stock. When the next economic downturn comes, many of those shareholders are likely to sell their shares, and what that might mean for the state has is being debated. Some experts argue that because the trusts are plugged into the ebbs and flows of the market more than the insurance companies or banks were, the boom-and-bust cycle of the real estate markets may be moderated.
Others say the pattern next time will be the same, or worse: Pressure to make profits for the investors who own the trusts will force property prices up beyond their real value. At some point, the pessimists say, the stocks will crash, and with them their real estate empires.
Thomas Wright, director of the New Jersey office of the Regional Plan Association, a nonprofit urban planning organization, said he believed that the state's 1990's-style stability, as unfulfilling as it might seem to some residents, would prove its worth in the end.
"This time it isn't a flash in the pan," he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 8, 1997, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A chart on Sept. 23 showing median prices of existing houses in the New York region for the last five years, with an article about the New Jersey economy, mislabeled one set of data. The line showing the highest figures represented median prices in New York City and Westchester, Rockland and Putnam Counties, not prices for the entire state.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A new generation of post-recession, higher-priced housing is being built by the Lefrak Organization of Rego Park, Queens, at Newport, a mixed-use complex on the Hudson River waterfront in Jersey City, N.J. (John Sotomayor/The New York Times)(pg. B4)
 
Graphs: "OVERVIEW: New Jersey Bounces Back"
The state has recovered all but 3 percent of the jobs lost in the last recession, the first state in the New York region to reach that threshhold.
 
Office space has boomed
New Jersey has the fifth-largest pool of office space in the nation -- more than 140 million square feet -- most of it concentrated around New York City. Graph shows the change in office inventory from 1986 to 1997 (2d quarter) in 10 counties.
 
"Unemployment has dropped . . . and the private sector keeps growing"
Graphs show unemployment rates for New Jersey, New York State, Connecticut and New York City, from 1992 to 1997, seasonally adjusted and Nonfarm, nongovernment payroll jobs, from 1992 to 1997, seasonally adjusted.
 
"An affluent population . . . can afford pricier houses"
Graphs shows median household income in 1995 and median prices of existing houses, from 1992 to 1997, for New Jersey, New York State, Connecticut and New York City.
(Sources: Cushman & Wakefield of New Jersey; Bureau of Labor Statistics; Census Bureau; National Association of Realtors)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; NEW YORK STATE; CONNECTICUT; ; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FORECASTS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); TRENDS (76%); COLD WAR (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); WORLD WAR II (69%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1997



463 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: With Timber Scarce, Old Logs Deep in a Lake Become a Sunken Treasure

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON 

DATELINE: ASHLAND, Wis.

 BODY:
Russet sunlight skips across Lake Superior, the last waltz of a fading summer, as a scuba diver 30 feet below the surface swims toward a pile of ancient oak logs. They are sunken remnants of the virgin forest, felled in a boom-time fury, then lost and forgotten for a century.
"Jackpot!" exclaims the diver, Jeff Petrouski, 24, speaking to co-workers on the crew boat via radio, after the recent discovery of the lake-bed shelf of timber, cut years ago from an old forest and preserved by the cold. 
 From the Civil War to World War I, when lumberjacks largely denuded the rugged North Woods of Wisconsin, logs were often stored in floating masses on Lake Superior, and many sank. Rather than retrieve the logs, it was cheaper and easier to cut down more trees.
But now the scarcity of old timber, with its tight grain from slow growth, has made these logs sunken treasure. The Superior Water-Logged Lumber Company, headed by an underwater explorer who once made a living searching for shipwrecks, dries and mills the old timber, then sells it to furniture makers, artists and builders of stringed instruments.
"We've got a virgin forest at the bottom of the lake," said Scott Mitchen, the 39-year-old president of Water-Logged Lumber in this old port town, noting that millions of ancient logs could be recovered from the bottom of oceans, lakes and rivers around the world.
"Every tree we retrieve is a tree we don't have to cut down," Mr. Mitchen said. "This is environmentally friendly logging."
The United States Army Corps of Engineers and Wisconsin officials in June approved underwater logging in certain parts of Lake Superior.
The Water-Logged company, which operates in a formerly abandoned sawmill it purchased for $1 from this job-starved town, has recently started using sonar to locate the underwater logs, which tend to be plentiful near the sites of long-vanished mills along the lake shore.
For now, divers attach eye bolts to the logs, which are pulled up individually, using galvanized wire, to a barge. The company expects to retrieve about 10,000 by the end of October, when the water usually freezes. It has $7.5 million worth of orders for the old timber.
Starting next year, the company plans to use a crane on the barge to scoop up a large number of logs from the bottom at the same time. The aim is to pull up 20,000 to 30,000 logs in the warm months next year.
The idea for the company came to Mr. Mitchen while he was exploring for shipwrecks in Lake Superior in the early 90's, after he had seen countless logs in his dives. The abundance of old logs, together with rising timber prices, convinced Mr. Mitchen that a forgotten treasure was waiting in the water.
The Water-Logged company pays Wisconsin one-third of the value of each log, based on the current market value of freshly cut timber. After a drying process that takes weeks, the old wood is cut and sold for much higher prices than new wood, sometimes 10 times as much. About a dozen kinds of trees are retrieved, including oak, maple, birch, elm, ash and pine. Birds-eye maple, with its iridescent grain, sells for as much as $80 a foot after being cut.
While most of the salvaged wood goes for furniture and craft work, some has been used to make stringed instruments, like a flat-topped acoustic guitar the company is giving to the country singer Johnny Cash.
The company's keenest hopes lie in finding wood for exquisite violins. A sample of 300-year-old maple has been analyzed by Joseph Nagyvary, a researcher and violin builder at Texas A&M University, who has compared it to the material used by Antonio Stradivari, who built the world's finest violins in the 17th and 18th centuries in Italy.
"I have not seen anything like this in modern times -- it's in the same ball park as a Stradivarius," said Mr. Nagyvary, whose research has indicated that Stradivari soaked his wood in water, which removed gums and resins. So it is possible that the lake water has cleansed the old wood in a similar way.
But a guitar-builder who works for Water-Logged Lumber, Chris Hinton, said fewer than one in 1,000 old logs met the precise standards of size, weight and grain pattern required for such violins.
Terry Mace, a wood specialist for the state forestry department, said that, more than anything else, Water-Logged Lumber sold mystique. "People feel good about holding something that is that old, that harkens back to history," Mr. Mace said.
The nether reaches of Wisconsin were so heavily forested before 1870 that an early settler, Asaph Whittlesey, expressed fear that his wife would never be comfortable in a place where it was impossible to see the sky.
While lumberjacks largely cleared Wisconsin of virgin forests, the state still harvests 4.2 million cords of wood a year, much of it for paper, and 99,000 people work in the forestry industry.
In the logging boom of the late 1800's, when the mills in Ashland alone cut 500 million board feet of lumber a year, enough for about 50,000 houses, timber barons built mansions and grand hotels, civic boosters promoted Ashland as "the next Chicago," adventurous, hard-drinking men came to cut the trees and pack the saloons, and an enterprising Madison woman, Molly Cooper, became infamous for running the brothels that catered to them.
Much of the lumber milled here was shipped south to rebuild Chicago after its fire in 1871. The tree limbs left behind by lumberjacks sometimes fueled terrible blazes in northern Wisconsin. Indeed, a fire in the North Woods killed 1,152 people in the town of Peshtigo, half the population, on the very same day the Chicago Fire killed 250.
The ghosts of those audacious times still lurk in the little towns of the North Woods, where gracious old houses are paint-chipped, their wraparound porches sagging because of the want of money for repairs. Here in Ashland, there is the Chequamegon Hotel, a grand dowager on the bay, with a bar named for Molly Cooper. Some of the timber towns, like Nash and Sioux, have disappeared. Much of the old forest was long ago transformed to dairy farms.
While tourist money still flows into the port town of Bayfield, a charming old fishing village, the North Woods region is among the most economically depressed in Wisconsin.
Ashland, on Chequamegon Bay about 75 miles east of Duluth, had a population of more than 25,000 at the turn of the century. Today, it has a population of about 8,000.
But the town has hopes that Water-Logged Lumber, which has drawn about 15,000 curious visitors to its mill in the past year, could put some spark into a community that is fighting hard for its successes, like the revitalized Old Depot, once a grand train station and now a restaurant, bar and museum.
Water-Logged Lumber, which employs about 30 people, got a subsidized loan of $400,000 from the Wisconsin Department of Economic Development.
"This is a region where life has never been easy," said Jan Young, a local historian.
But those here stay for the beauty, the rolling hills thick with oaks, hemlock and tamarack; the pristine Apostle Islands, and the crashing waves of Lake Superior, the world's largest body of fresh water, and, residents insist, the cleanest.
The retrieval of the old logs, in the view of Mr. Mitchen, gives people here a tangible connection to their roots and their history.
"Our kids in Wisconsin know a lot about shipwrecks and pirates, but they know very little about their own heritage," said Mr. Mitchen, a Milwaukee native, noting that most people in the North Woods traced back to loggers. "This wood tells their story."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Superior Water-Logged Lumber Company, which dries and mills valuable old logs, pulls them from the bottom of Lake Superior. A barge was loaded near Bayfield, Wis., last week. (Jeff Peters for The New York Times)
 
Map of Wisconsin showing location of Bayfield. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: LAKE SUPERIOR (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SUPERIOR WATER-LOGGED LUMBER CO LAKE SUPERIOR LAND CO (91%); LAKE SUPERIOR & ISHPEMING RAILROAD CO (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPERIOR WATER-LOGGED LUMBER CO

GEOGRAPHIC: LAKE SUPERIOR; WISCONSIN; UNITED STATES (94%); LAKE SUPERIOR (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: WOOD AND WOOD PRODUCTS LAKES (91%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); SCUBA DIVING (90%); WATER SPORTS (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (89%); SAW MILLS (77%); WILDERNESS (77%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (76%); ENGINEERING (75%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (75%); WOOD PRODUCTS MFG (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (72%); ARMIES (71%); WORLD WAR I (70%); FURNITURE MFG (70%); SONAR SYSTEMS (67%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (67%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENT MFG (66%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (51%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (51%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, DIRK

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1997



464 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Climbs Against Mark On German Economic Data

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The dollar rose against the mark yesterday after reports of falling prices in Germany's two biggest states eased speculation that the Bundesbank, the country's central bank, might soon raise interest rates.
With German unemployment at a post-World War II high and signs of ebbing inflation, a rise in interest rates could brake the country's nascent recovery from a five-year economic slump, analysts said. 
 "The sentiment is changing as far as Germany's ability to hike rates," said Bob Fakhouri, foreign exchange manager at Generale Bank. "We could have a big dollar-mark rally."
The dollar rose as high as 1.8010 marks -- its highest since Sept. 10 -- before settling in New York trading at 1.7934 marks, up from 1.7914 marks on Monday.
The dollar also rose to 122.13 Japanese yen from 121.75 yen, but trading was light, with markets in Japan closed for a holiday. The British pound rose to $1.6137 from $1.6049.
Prices in North Rhine-Westphalia and Bavaria fell three-tenths of 1 percent in the month to mid-September, bringing down both states' annual inflation rates. The reports suggested that inflation in Germany as a whole might be waning enough to stay a move by the Bundesbank.
Traders will get a better reading on German prices either today or tomorrow when the West German consumer price index is expected to be released. Economists forecast that the index fell one-tenth of 1 percent in the month to mid-September, leaving its annual inflation rate unchanged at 2 percent.
In August, German inflation rose slightly more than the Bundesbank's desired ceiling of 2 percent for the first time in two and a half years.
While yesterday's price reports dampened immediate concerns about inflation, some traders were not ruling out a rate rise if the economy shows other signs of a pick-up.
"Today's price numbers buy the Bundesbank maybe two weeks" to keep rates steady, said J. P. Neergaard, manager of foreign exchange at Den Danske Bank. "The market shouldn't read too much into them."
Helping to stem the dollar's rise yesterday, the president of the Bundesbank, Hans Tietmeyer, said that "the correction in the dollar has finished," suggesting he did not want it to rise much further. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (97%); JAPAN (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORDRHEIN-WESTFALEN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BUNDESBANK GENERALE BANK (57%); DEN DANSKE BANK INTERNATIONAL SA (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUNDESBANK

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (97%); JAPAN (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORDRHEIN-WESTFALEN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CREDIT; INTEREST RATES CENTRAL BANKS (92%); CURRENCIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); TRENDS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); BRITISH POUND (70%); WORLD WAR II (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1997



465 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Diplomacy, Gore-Style, Is a Study In 'Process'

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 23

 BODY:
After days of closed talks about the obstacles facing American oil companies in Russia, Vice President Al Gore and Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin announced a decision: They agreed to work on the problems over the next two months.
From the moment Mr. Gore arrived in Russia, his strategy has been to nudge issues toward resolution. It is a deliberate approach that avoids open confrontation and minimizes the risk of embarrassing failure. 
 Aides insist that Mr. Gore's workmanlike approach is vital to forging effective relations with the Russians. But it also makes Mr. Gore appear a less than dashing figure at a time when he is trying to demonstrate his skills as a statesman.
If Mr. Gore had a favorite word this week it has been "process." The two sides established a "process" for discussing American complaints that Russian scientists are selling missile technology to Iran, Mr. Gore noted proudly. They set up a "process" for airing their disagreements over a new bill that protects the Russian Orthodox Church from competition with other Christian faiths. And that was before tonight's "process" on oil investment disputes.
To be sure, some of these processes have eventually yielded results. The two sides, for example, sealed an agreement today to halt the production of weapons-grade plutonium in Russia.
Russia had agreed in 1994 to shut down three nuclear reactors used to heat the Siberian cities of Tomsk and Krasnoyarsk because of United States concerns that the plants also produce plutonium that can be used to make nuclear weapons. But Moscow later concluded that it could not carry out its pledge because it lacked the money to construct non-nuclear power plants.
Under the new accord, the Russians will continue to operate the reactors but will convert them so that the plutonium they produce is not weapons-grade. The United States will pay the $70 million cost and the work is to be completed by 2000. American officials had hoped to sign the agreement months ago, but it was held up by bureaucratic snags within the Russian Government.
But some emotionally charged disputes may not lend themselves to Mr. Gore's incremental approach.
Mr. Gore criticized the religion bill passed by the lower house of Parliament on Friday, saying that it discriminated against minority religious groups. He stressed that American and Russian experts would get together to discuss the bill and how it might be changed.
"We have set in motion a process that will convey to Russian officials the concern about certain aspects of this pending measure, which may abridge basic citizens' freedoms, as we read the language," Mr. Gore said.
But Sergei Yastrzhembsky, spokesman for President Boris N. Yeltsin, told the Itar-Tass news agency today that Mr. Yeltsin was basically satisfied with the wording of the new bill and is likely to sign it.
The dispute over billions of dollars in planning American oil projects will also be a difficult test.
There are plenty of problems. Amoco has run into major difficulties with its Russian partners. Exxon was outraged when the Government revoked its right to develop oil in the far north. The Timan Perchora project, run by a consortium of Western and Russian oil companies, has been thwarted by local authorities. Major projects are also still awaiting parliamentary approval.
To dramatize his case to Mr. Chernomyrdin, Mr. Gore waved newspaper articles suggesting that Russia was acquiring a bad reputation among foreign investors.
A senior American official said Mr. Gore had succeeded in focusing Russian attention on the oil problem. American and Russian experts are to study the issue for two months and issue recommendations for solving it.
What will come out of the talks is unclear. The Russians have indicated that they will try to come up with a creative solution for Exxon's difficulties.
Moscow has also reversed -- at least temporarily -- its decision to end the privileged access Conoco and two other companies enjoy to oil pipelines under joint ventures with the Russians.
"We will eventually get to firm and final closure on these issues," a senior American official vowed tonight. "It may take time but we will succeed. The key to success is that the leading figures do not think the other side is out to snooker them."
Some oil executives, who have been struggling with the byzantine politics of oil for years here, were more skeptical.
But few doubt that, come what may, Mr. Gore will slog on. Next year, the United States will host the tenth session of the Gore-Chernomyrdin Commission on Economic, Security and Scientific Issues. It is part of the process.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (70%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (69%); POWER PLANTS (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (68%); DISCRIMINATION (65%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); GORDON, MICHAEL R AL GORE (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1997



466 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 347 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
Wall St. Giant Reports Net Soared 51%

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Company said yesterday that its fiscal third-quarter net income rose 51 percent, led by record profits in its securities and asset management businesses.
The firm, the largest in the nation in terms of capital, said net income for the quarter ended Aug. 31 rose to $678 million, or $1.11 a share, from $450 million, or 74 cents, in the period a year earlier. 
 The results beat Wall Street forecasts, although the firm's stock fell 50 cents yesterday, to $55.9375.
Analysts surveyed by First Call had predicted earnings of 96 cents a share.
The firm was created in May when Morgan Stanley Group Inc., a securities firm, merged with Dean Witter, Discover & Company, a brokerage and credit card company. The year-ago results are presented as if the two companies had already merged.
"Great earnings," said Richard Strauss, a Goldman, Sachs & Company analyst. "The month of June, which was the strongest this year, helped. They had great results in all areas, thanks to strong markets."
The company returned 22.8 percent on equity in the latest quarter, compared with 18.1 percent in the period a year earlier. Its shares rose 24 percent in the last three months.
Morgan Stanley benefited from rising stocks, falling interest rates, a surge in corporate mergers and volatile markets. Last week, closely held Goldman, Sachs Group L.P. reported that its pretax profit rose 58 percent, to a record $932 million for many of the same reasons.
All that is good news for the United States securities industry, which is expected to earn about $3.1 billion in the third quarter, up 55 percent from a year ago, according to the Securities Industry Association.
Robust markets aside, Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter's results show that the merger is working so far, analysts said. "When you have a 51 percent increase in earnings, not all of that is produced by market conditions, which were favorable a year ago," said Charles Vincent, an analyst at PNC Asset Management in Philadelphia. "Part of the reason is the merger is working out."

GRAPHIC: Table: "Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter,Discover & Co. (MWD,N)"

Qtr. to Aug. 31	1997	1996	%Ch	Rev.	4,107,000,000	2,807,000,000	+46.3	Net inc.	678,000,000	450,000,000	+50.7	Sh. earn	1.11	.74		Sh. out.	597,921,853	589,024,786	 	
 
The results for the year-ago quarter are on a pro-forma basis.
Revenues are consolidated net revenues.
Results are for the third quarter.
 
Yesterday's closing price: $55.9375
Down 50 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (97%); GS (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (97%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (97%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY, DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO MORGAN STANLEY (97%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: MORGAN STANLEY, DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MERGERS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CREDIT CARDS (69%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (54%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1997



467 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 2; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: College, a Survivor, Digs for Wisdom, Limestone and Tenants

BYLINE: By SHIRLEY CHRISTIAN 

DATELINE: PARKVILLE, Mo., Sept. 23

 BODY:
From its tall bluff with a sweeping view of the Missouri River, the Gothic-style administration building of Park College seems to announce itself as a bastion of classical liberal education, one of the aspiring Harvards that Protestant dreamers scattered around the Midwest in the 19th century.
And so the impact could not be more jarring when, an hour later, the college president maneuvers his four-wheel drive vehicle up an unpaved road on campus and pulls over to allow a truck loaded with crushed rock to pass in a cloud of dust. 
 "Money in the bank," said Donald J. Breckon, the president, as he contemplated the dusty load, which had just been excavated from vast limestone deposits that underlie the campus. "Not too many college presidents have a 1,200-acre industrial park under their campus."
He does not either -- yet. But by mining and selling the limestone and then developing the resulting caverns as underground office and industrial space, the college is moving along that path. It has been selling crushed rock for use in cement and asphalt for more than 20 years and recently attracted its first tenant, the growing suburban Park Hill school district, which has moved some administrative, warehouse and maintenance operations into a 37,000-square-foot underground space.
Dr. Breckon believes the project will bring financial security to a college that nearly died when enrollment dropped in the 1970's, enabling it to broaden access while keeping tuition at levels equal to the nearby state universities. Park has 2,000 students on campus, plus part-time students at surrounding satellite sites.
The limestone under Park College and much of the metropolitan Kansas City area, of which Parkville is a suburb, was deposited by an inland sea that covered the region a few hundred million years ago and left behind the Missouri River and a ledge of high-quality limestone on either side as much as 100 miles wide.
Excavated caves were first put to use around Kansas City in 1939, but since the early 1970's, conversions have surged and there are now at least a dozen underground industrial parks. Their appeal is economic: construction costs about a third less than above-ground space, and tenants save on energy, since the average mean temperature underground is 56 degrees year-round.
Access to the sites "is as simple as driving back into the hillside from surface streets to gain access to the underground area, not having to change depth to go underground," said Donald R. Woodard, director of Park College's underground project and a former city planner.
Park College, named for its founder, Col. George S. Park, opened its doors in 1875. Affiliated with the Presbyterian Church, though not operated directly by the church, the college historically had 500 to 700 students. When enrollment dropped in the early 1970's, the college fell into debt and the Presbyterians canceled the affiliation agreement. The president at the time tried to sell the college but found no takers. Ultimately, the Reorganized Church of Latter-day Saints, based in Independence, Mo., agreed to an affiliation agreement and extended financial help.
About the same time, the college ordered core drilling of the campus and determined that it was sitting on two kinds of limestone, both high in calcium carbonate, that are in demand for road paving and other uses. A mining company began excavation, with the college receiving a percentage of sales -- about $50,000 to $150,000 a year. The sum is minuscule in an annual budget of $25 million, but the real payback is expected to come from what Mr. Woodard called "the byproduct" -- the underground office and industrial space.
When Dr. Breckon came to Park from Central Michigan University in 1987 he initiated the development of the campus caves. A thick overburden of stone, usually 12 to 20 feet thick, forms the ceilings of the caverns, and moisture is kept out by a layer of water-tight shale between the limestone ledges. Ceiling heights can be as high as 16 feet.
The first undertaking was a new library, some classrooms and faculty offices for the college itself. Access is through doors that look like any other building entrance on the campus. On entering, students go down a flight of stairs into the library. Aside from having no windows, it looks like any other small college library.
Next, he hired Mr. Woodard, who had experience on other underground developments, to find paying tenants. After deducting for underground roads and the immense support pillars that are created by the miners, spaced every 30 to 40 feet, the college currently has about 650,000 square feet of usable space to finish and lease for warehousing, maintenance operations, offices or light industry.
Annual rents for basic warehouse space, on a five-year lease, start at $2 a square foot, compared with $3.25 aboveground.
Excavation also continues, so space is continually being created. A second ledge, which lies 110 feet beneath the first ledge, is now under excavation, which will give Park College two levels of underground space. With 600 acres on each level, Dr. Breckon's calculates the 800-acre campus will eventually sit on a 1,200-acre industrial park.
"What it means," he said, "is that the underground will make a financially strong college, assuring that our doors never close."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Park College in Parkville, Mo., saved money by building its new library underground, in space once occupied by limestone. Up to 20 feet of rock form the roof, but there is one disadvantage -- the library lacks windows. (Roy Inman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (88%); 

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: PARK COLLEGE

ORGANIZATION: PARK COLLEGE

GEOGRAPHIC: PARKSVILLE (MO); UNITED STATES (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (88%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; LIMESTONE; MINES AND MINING COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (88%); TUITION FEES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); STONE MINING & QUARRYING (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (73%); 

PERSON: CHRISTIAN, SHIRLEY

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1997



468 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: F.C.C. Is Urged to Keep Close Eye on Cable Rates

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

 BODY:
Cable television rates are once again spiraling upward. But rather than accuse the cable companies of price gouging, two consumer groups blamed the Federal Communications Commission yesterday, saying that it failed to keep a rein on the newly aggressive cable industry.
The Consumer Federation of America and Consumers Union said the F.C.C. had allowed cable rates to rise at three times the inflation rate since the new telecommunications law was passed in early 1996. The increases are almost as sharp as those that occurred when Congress deregulated the cable industry from 1986 to 1993. 
 "The cable industry feels utterly unconstrained by the F.C.C.," said Gene Kimmelman, co-director of the Washington office of Consumers Union, a nonprofit group that tests products and publishes Consumer Reports. "Without Big Brother watching them," he said, "cable companies feel they can let it rip, and that's exactly what they've done."
In a petition filed with the F.C.C., the groups called on the commission to freeze cable rates and to overhaul its formula for determining reasonable rates. In addition, they said the F.C.C. ought to clamp down on mergers between cable operators and cable programming services, which were relaxed in the Telecommunications Act of 1996.
The F.C.C. did not respond directly to these demands. In a statement, Meredith J. Jones, the chief of the commission's cable services bureau, said the most effective regulator of cable rates was more robust competition from satellite television services.
A senior F.C.C. official, who insisted on anonymity, said it was difficult to impose rate caps on cable because the industry is constantly adding new channels. The industry then argues that it ought to be compensated for giving viewers more choices.
Despite the steady upward climb of cable rates, there has not yet been a backlash from consumers as there was in the 1980's. In the absence of a public outcry, some industry experts said neither the F.C.C. nor Congress was likely to revisit the issue any time soon.
But Edward J. Markey, the ranking Democrat on the House Commerce Committee, said that cable remained a powerful monopoly in the video market, and the magnitude of the rate increases underscored that. He added that Congress should consider imposing permanent rate caps.
Under the terms of the Telecommunications Act, rates for basic cable service will be regulated until March 1999, when all restrictions disappear. In 1994, the F.C.C. allowed cable companies to raise rates if they added new channels. And in 1996, it permitted them to raise rates to account for the growing cost of their existing channels.
"Cable should have to justify that today's rates are reasonable, and I don't think they can do that," Mr. Markey said.
Cable rates began climbing almost immediately after President Clinton signed the telecommunications law in February 1996. Spot checks of major operators like Time Warner and Tele-Communications showed that many companies put through rate increases of more than 10 percent, which they said were necessary to make up for two years of rate freezes in 1993 and 1994.
Now, a study by Consumers Union documents that rates rose across the country. According to data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, average monthly cable rates have risen 5.6 percent a year, adjusted for inflation, in the 18 months since the passage of the new law. Between 1986 and 1993, when the cable industry was totally deregulated, average rates rose 4.3 percent, adjusted for inflation.
"The F.C.C.'s current regulation of the cable industry conceals pricing that is every bit as monopolistic as it was during the deregulatory heyday of the 1980's," Mr. Kimmelman said.
Cable executives, however, said they had to increase their monthly bills because services like ESPN, MTV and CNN were charging them more to be carried.
The problem is particularly pronounced among sports services like ESPN and Madison Square Garden Network, which must pay sky-high fees for the rights to football, baseball and other professional sports. One major cable operator, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said ESPN recently tried to increase its annual carriage fee by 23 percent.
"It's not the cable operators who are getting fat and sassy," said Marc B. Nathanson, the chairman of Falcon Cable TV, a cable operator in Westwood, Calif., with 1.1 million subscribers. "The ones who are getting fat and sassy are the programmers."
Mr. Nathanson, whose company raised rates an average of 5.8 percent from 1995 through 1997, said cable operators also needed capital to make costly upgrades to offer new services like pay-per-view movies and high-speed access to the Internet.
Several operators said they had moderated their rate increases after big one-time rises in 1996. The typical monthly bill for a Time Warner subscriber in Manhattan rose $1.50 this year, to $31.37 from $29.87. Last year, the bill jumped more than $2.50 a month.
T.C.I., which put through an across-the-board rate increase of 13 percent in 1996, said it raised rates an average of 6.5 percent this year. T.C.I.'s subscriber growth has been stalled in recent months as people try out direct-broadcast satellite services like DirecTV and Prime Star.
Lela Cocoros, a spokeswoman for Tele-Communications, said the company was pricing its service carefully because it was mindful of the threat from such services.
But Mr. Kimmelman noted that the growth of the direct-broadcast industry has tailed off in recent months. And he said that cable operators like T.C.I. and Time Warner could stymie future competition because they owned several of the most popular programming services, including CNN, TNT and HBO.
In their petition, Consumers Union and the Consumer Federation of America are also asking the F.C.C. to impose stricter rules on the vertical integration of cable companies and programming services. Such combinations are pernicious, Mr. Kimmelman said, because the big cable operators can effectively enrich themselves by inflating the cost of their networks and passing along that cost to their cable subscribers.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Climbing Cable Rates" tracks price increase of cable service, including basic and premium channels, installation and monthly fees for urban cable subscribers. Data compiled since 1992. (Source: Consumers Union) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION; CONSUMER FEDERATION OF AMERICA; CONSUMERS UNION FCC CO LTD (90%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION CABLE SERVICES BUREAU (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION; CONSUMER FEDERATION OF AMERICA; CONSUMERS UNION FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION CABLE SERVICES BUREAU (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CONSUMER PROTECTION; CABLE TELEVISION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY ; SATELLITES CABLE INDUSTRY (96%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (91%); DEREGULATION (91%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (79%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (78%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); INFLATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); PETITIONS (67%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK; JONES, MEREDITH J EDWARD J MARKEY (55%); BILL CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1997



469 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Disappointing Auction Trims Bond Prices

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities dropped moderately yesterday, after a disappointing Government auction of new two-year notes.
The price of the 30-year bond fell 13/32, to 99 29/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 6.38 percent from 6.35 percent on Monday. 
 The two-year note was awarded yesterday at a price to yield 5.794 percent.
Traders said the yield came in higher than expected and left market participants wondering if today's auction of new five-year notes would bring more of the same.
Volume was light for the second consecutive day, with buyers resisting what they view as lofty price levels after the recent run-up.
Yields of Treasury securities are often pushed higher going into an auction, as primary dealers seek to insure and expedite the distribution of the new securities to investors, so that dealers themselves are not left holding more inventory than necessary, which would make them liable for losses, should the market decline.
Analysts said end-of-quarter buying helped support the bill market, which generally outperformed the longer maturities.
Jack Ablin, executive vice president of Barnett Capital Advisors Inc. in Jacksonville, Fla., said it was not surprising that the two-year auction offered a poor yield, especially compared with a three-month London interbank offered rate of 5.72 percent. "The short-note market right now is overpriced and suffering," he said. "I think the yield curve needs to flatten more, but the two-year will bear the brunt of the adjustment."
Mr. Ablin said that because the five-year note being auctioned today offered a higher yield it could attract more investors. "Right now the two-year maturity is the worst spot on the curve," he said.
By late in the day in when-issued trading the five-year note being auctioned today was offered at a price to yield 5.99 percent.
Lynch, Jones & Ryan Inc. announced on Monday that it was suing the Standard & Poor's Corporation and its parent, the McGraw-Hill Companies, charging them with "hot" news misappropriation of the LJR Redbook Retail Averages.
The suit stems from LJR's request to S.& P.'s MMS International unit to stop disseminating LJR Redbook information during its embargoed time, the minutes when it goes out to LJR's paying subscribers and before it is released to the public.
In the municipal bond market, the Massachusetts Turnpike Authority tentatively priced $1.36 billion of metropolitan highway system revenue bonds through underwriters led by Paine Webber Inc. Proceeds from the offering will be used to rebuild downtown Boston roads.
Underwriters said the issue was initially priced to yield a maximum 5.55 percent for a straight debt issue due in 2037. Serial bonds with shorter maturities were priced to yield from 5.10 percent for a bond due in 2010 to 5.15 percent for a bond due in 2013. For longer maturities the authority is offering a yield of 5.375 percent for a bond due in 2017, 5.44 percent for one due in 2023 and 5.47 percent for a bond due in 2028.
Also included are capital appreciation bonds, or zero coupon bonds, which pay no interest, but if held to maturity will yield 5.625 for issues due in 2024 and 2025, and 5.65 percent for a bond due in 2037.
The following are the results of the two-year note auction:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
High Price . . . 99.918
High Yield . . . 5.794%
Low Yield . . . 5.730%
Median Yield . . . 5.775%
Accepted at low price . . . 38%
Total applied for . . . $39,825,167
Accepted . . . $17,443,341
Noncompetitive . . . $911,236
Interest set at . . . 5 3/4
 
The 2-year notes mature Sept. 30, 1999. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MHFI (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (63%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (63%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (63%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (63%); LYNCH JONES & RYAN INC (63%); MCGRAW HILL FINANCIAL INC (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); AUCTIONS (91%); BOND MARKETS (91%); BONDS (91%); YIELD CURVE (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (64%); SUITS & CLAIMS (63%); MISAPPROPRIATION (60%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (60%); LEGISLATION (52%); INTERBANK LENDING (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1997



470 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: THE AD CAMPAIGN;
Sparring on Sex Shop Rules

BYLINE: By 

 BODY:
This is a new 30-second commercial that the campaign of Rudolph W. Giuliani begin broadcasting yesterday. 

PRODUCER -- Adam Goodman/Doner Public Affairs
 
ON THE SCREEN -- The ad opens with an aerial shot of Manhattan. Superimposed are the words, "Messinger: Sex businesses give New York character. Fox TV News 9/13/95." Shots of New York neighborhoods appear, with other assertions about sex businesses attributed to Ms. Messinger. At the end, the ad repeats the words, "Messinger: Sex businesses give New York character," then asks, "What do you think?"
 
THE SCRIPT -- Announcer: "Ruth Messinger says sex businesses give New York character. That they are an integral part of a neighborhood's fabric. And an important part of our city's economic and tourism-industry base. Messinger argued the Mayor's plan to restrict sex shops was unconstitutional. But six judges on two courts have agreed with the Mayor and upheld his plan. Unanimously. Sex shops in our neighborhoods? Messinger thinks they add character. What do you think?"
 
ACCURACY -- The principal theme of the ad -- that Ruth Messinger believes sex shops add character to New York City -- is not supported by her public statements. The Giuliani campaign says this assertion is based on a statement made on the air by a Channel 5 anchorwoman, but a tape of the segment shows that the anchorwoman was not quoting Ms. Messinger and was bantering with another anchor. Ms. Messinger has said that sex shops can "invigorate" the quality of life in predominantly gay neighborhoods such as Greenwich Village (not one of the neighborhoods shown in the ad) and can affect gay tourism, but her plan to restrict the shops to one per block acknowledged that they create problems in most other areas. Her proposal, however, was far less restrictive than the law passed by the Mayor and the City Council. The law has been upheld by six judges on two courts, but yesterday the state's highest court agreed to consider a challenge.
 
SCORECARD -- As the first Giuliani ad that directly attacks Ms. Messinger by name, this commercial begins what the Mayor's campaign says will be a regular "examination" of her record -- negative comparisons similar to those already made by the Messinger campaign. The Mayor's quality-of-life effort, including the limits on sex establishments, has been one of his most popular accomplishments, and he made it clear in a speech last week that he believes her opposition to the law will hurt her. But by exaggerating her position on the subject, he risks the same kind of backlash that accompanied Ms. Messinger's first commercial on education, in which she showed classroom conditions that do not exist. DAVID FIRESTONE

GRAPHIC: Photo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; PORNOGRAPHY AND OBSCENITY; ELECTION ISSUES MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MAYORS (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CITIES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); LEGISLATION (67%); 

PERSON: FIRESTONE, DAVID; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); MESSINGER, RUTH W (BORO PRES) RUDY GIULIANI (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1997



471 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Risking China's Wrath, U.S. and Japan Bolster Military Ties

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

 BODY:
The United States and Japan agreed yesterday to strengthen their military relationship despite warnings from China that the stronger alliance was a provocation that would threaten peace and stability throughout Asia.
The new ties replace guidelines set in 1978 as the basis of military cooperation in the event of a war or another crisis in or near Japan. 
 Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright and Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen announced the revisions after a meeting at the Waldorf-Astoria in Manhattan with their Japanese counterparts, Foreign Minister Keizo Obuchi and Defense Minister Fumio Kyuma.
Under the agreement, Japan would provide support for American military operations in the event of a military confrontation or other crisis, including allowing the use of its bases in emergencies.
The guidelines also called for Japan to take part in minesweeping efforts in international waters, to enforce economic blockades and to help evacuate civilians trapped in unstable countries. In addition, the two countries agreed to step up their efforts to coordinate their "defense policies and military postures" and to share covert intelligence.
Ms. Albright and Mr. Cohen hailed the agreement -- which came after a year of negotiations and protests inside and outside Japan -- as an important step for promoting security in Asia and the Pacific.
"These guidelines that are being updated are designed to help face the challenge not of the past but of the future," Mr. Cohen said.
They then sought to reassure China and other countries in Asia that the new ties were not an effort to bolster American might and influence at the expense of others.
A statement by the two countries went to great lengths to note their interest in cooperating with China, although it did not mention Taiwan, a major source of Chinese concerns. Beijing has publicly complained that the alliance could draw Japan into supporting the United States in any defense of Taiwan.
"The new guidelines are not aimed at any individual nation, any third nation," Mr. Cohen added. "But by strengthening the security relationship benefits with Japan, it benefits all of the nations in the region."
The announcement came only hours before Ms. Albright met China's Foreign Minister, Qian Qichen, as part of a flurry of meetings over the next two weeks with ministers and other diplomats gathering in Manhattan for the opening of the United Nations General Assembly.
Appearing at a news conference with Ms. Albright last night, Mr. Qian responded curtly when asked about the new guidelines.
"The position of the Chinese side has been made clear again and again," he said. But the issue did not appear to dampen the mood of their meeting, the sixth between Mr. Qian and Ms. Albright.
Ms. Albright called him "my good friend" and said the United States "had made progress in almost all" of the areas where it disagrees with China, which include proliferation, trade and human rights.
The meeting was intended to smooth the way for the summit next month between President Clinton and President Jiang Zemin, and afterward a senior State Department official suggested that "concrete steps" were still needed to make that summit meeting a success.
Throughout the cold war, the United States committed itself to the defense of Japan, but on terms that left many unanswered questions about the extent of Japan's military role.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (94%); TAIWAN (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; CHINA; JAPAN (99%); CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (94%); TAIWAN (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); BEIJING, CHINA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE; ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC); COHEN, WILLIAM S (SEC); QIAN QICHEN (MIN) ; OBUCHI, KEIZO (MIN); KYUMA, FUMIO (MIN) WILLIAM S COHEN (92%); STEVEN J LEE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1997



472 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: SECURITY AIDE SEES PRESENCE IN BOSNIA BEYOND DEADLINE

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 23

 BODY:
President Clinton's national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger, said today that the United States and its European allies must be prepared for an extended stay in Bosnia beyond the scheduled withdrawal of NATO forces next June.
"We must not forget the important interests that led us to work for a more stable, more peaceful Bosnia," he told an audience at Georgetown University. "Peace is beginning to take root. The gains are not irreversible, and locking them in will require that the international community stay engaged in Bosnia in some fashion for a good while to come." 
 Responding to unease among the European allies and growing concern in Congress, Mr. Berger said the West must remain "engaged" in Bosnia to preserve peace in southeastern Europe and the credibility of the NATO alliance.
His speech echoed the arguments Mr. Clinton advanced last year to support the deployment of 8,000 American soldiers.
Mr. Berger did not explicitly declare that the Administration had abandoned its plan to withdraw American troops from Bosnia by June. But Administration officials said the speech was intended to counter Congressional Republicans who wanted to cut off spending for any future military presence, and to calm the fears of Britain, Germany and other allies who had told Washington that they did not want to station troops in Bosnia without a continued American military commitment.
Congressional Democrats who were consulted by Mr. Berger as he prepared the speech in the last two weeks said his careful wording reflected the fact that the Administration had not decided how many troops it was willing to commit to Bosnia in the future.
Mr. Berger and Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, they said, are pressing President Clinton to continue a military presence in Bosnia. But the Congressional Democrats said the President had not decided.
President Clinton originally sent 20,000 American troops to Bosnia as part of a 60,000-member NATO force two years ago to uphold an American-brokered peace settlement worked out in Dayton, Ohio, by Muslims, Croats and Serbs. The troops enforced a cease-fire but did little to arrest war criminals or help refugees return to their homes.
In the months before the 1996 Presidential election, Mr. Clinton and his aides refused to commit themselves to a renewed American presence in Bosnia. Soon after the election, the Clinton Administration announced that American troops would join a new, NATO-led force in Bosnia. This new force has recently become more aggressive in enforcing the Dayton accords, escorting refugees and seizing a few suspects indicted on war crimes charges. While those actions won some applause, Congress has voiced increasing concern that the NATO troops will be drawn into full-scale combat.
Countering Congressional friction as well as public skepticism, and still bruised by the Clinton Administration's early embarrassment in Somalia, Administration officials have offered distinct and at times contradictory statements over how long American troops will remain.
During most of last year, the Administration set a firm deadline of December 1996 for a complete American military pullout. But only days after the election, it announced plans for the new peacekeeping force with a reduced presence from NATO and the United States.
Defense Secretary William S. Cohen, who has been a skeptic of the American military presence in Bosnia since his days in the Senate, said on March 4, "It's very clear that June 1998, we'll be on our way out."
But three months later, President Clinton sidestepped questions about what he would do after the June deadline, saying, "I believe the present operation will have run its course by then and we'll have to discuss what, if any, involvement the United States should have there."
Administration officials said they would have to begin planning for a smaller residual military force in Bosnia by February.
"I don't know what the situation will look like two months from now, three months from now, four months from now," Mr. Berger said. "A decision has not been made on this."
Nevertheless, the Administration has to continue to keep up its guard against Congressional critics. Just last week, Senate and House conference negotiators came up with a compromise that would cut off money for United States forces in Bosnia in June but gave President Clinton the opportunity to request a waiver if he decided that national security interests were involved.
Today, Mr. Berger said he thought Congress would go along with a continuing United States mission in Bosnia after June. "I think it depends upon the clarity with which its mission and objectives would be defined," he said, "and what its relationship is to other European participation and the perception of whether or not this is working."
In his speech and in remarks to reporters today, Mr. Berger painted a picture of Bosnia as a slow-boiling crisis that could easily disintegrate without intensive and continuing international intervention. If the Dayton accords collapse and the Serbs, Muslims and Croats revert to war, Mr. Berger said in his speech, it would "potentially lead to a wider war in southeastern Europe."
He said such a conflict "would undermine NATO's credibility at a critical moment when the alliance is preparing for new members and new missions. This would throw into question America's leadership in Europe, with grave consequences for our people and other freedom-loving people around the world."
Later, Mr. Berger told reporters: "We can't lose patience. We continue to have a strong national interest in the success of Dayton."
Mr. Berger's speech came as Administration officials are holding sensitive private talks with European allies about what to do after the June deadline. Britain and Germany, in particular, have requested that the United States commit itself to some continuation of the allied military operation.
Congressional Republicans and Democrats interpreted Mr. Berger's remarks to indicate that the Administration had now come much closer than previously thought to keeping troops in Bosnia past June.
"Although he was cautious," Mr. Berger "left open the question of any successor force, which I read means that there will be a different role, but nonetheless a very important military role, for the United States," said Senator Joseph R. Biden of Delaware, a senior Democrat on the Foreign Relations Committee.
Senator Kay Bailey Hutchinson, Republican of Texas, predicted a vigorous fight in Congress to block any new commitment of American forces. "We're not looking at Somalia," she said. "We're looking at Vietnam. They don't have a clear exit strategy."
But Mr. Berger gave a cautiously optimistic assessment of the situation in Bosnia.
He conceded that a majority of refugees who had been forced to flee their towns and villages because of indiscriminate shellings and massacres had not been able to return home. And he noted that many indicted war criminals remained at large.
But, he said, thanks to allied efforts, the opposing forces have been separated, a cease-fire is in place, unemployment in Bosnia has fallen from 90 percent to 50 percent and more moderate Bosnian Serb leaders are challenging those indicted as war criminals for political control.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); EUROPE (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); SOMALIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); CROATIA (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: DAYTON, OH, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (57%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (57%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; UNITED STATES (97%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); EUROPE (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); SOMALIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); CROATIA (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); OHIO, USA (79%); DAYTON, OH, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE ARMED FORCES (93%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (74%); WAR CRIMES (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); REFUGEES (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); INDICTMENTS (60%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; BERGER, SAMUEL R; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC) BILL CLINTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1997



473 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 3617 words

HEADLINE: LIGHT TRUCKS, HEAVY RISK: A special report.;
A Deadly Highway Mismatch Ignored

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 23

 BODY:
Albert and Marianne Hassan were driving their Chrysler Concorde through Merrick, N.Y., last spring to pick up their 3-week-old son when a Chevrolet Suburban slammed into their car at an intersection. The Suburban's high front end pushed in the driver's side door, hitting Mr. Hassan in the chest. He died quickly of internal bleeding.
The 5,000-pound sport utility vehicle shoved the 3,300-pound car, a midsize family sedan, sideways for 50 feet until the other side of the car was crushed against a tree, blinding and critically injuring Mrs. Hassan. The driver of the Suburban was not injured. 
 Crashes like this one, in which the police accident investigator says the Suburban's weight and high front end worsened the injuries, are becoming more common. The number of collisions between a car and a light truck -- a sport utility vehicle, pickup truck or mini-van -- has been rising steadily. While they still make up a minority of two-vehicle crashes, these accidents now account for a majority of deaths in such crashes, and 80 percent of these deaths are in the cars.
The problem has alarmed a few safety researchers and some insurers. "It's something we need to work on desperately quickly," said C. Adrian Hobbs, the secretary of a new, mostly European panel studying collisions between vehicles of different sizes. "If nothing's done, people are going to continue to be killed unnecessarily."
Yet little has been done, either in Washington or Detroit:
*Seven years after the introduction of the Ford Explorer set off a surge in sales of sport utility vehicles, Federal regulators have not performed a crash test to determine what happens when these vehicles and pickups of similar design hit a car. Such tests could be a first step toward requiring auto makers to make light trucks less dangerous to other vehicles.
*Most of the Federal money designated to study crashes between different sizes of vehicles has been spent instead on air-bag safety studies in each of the last two fiscal years. This was because of an outcry over reports that 82 children and short adults have been killed by the devices. Yet Federal accident statistics show that collisions between light trucks and cars now kill that many people in cars each week.
*Auto makers in the United States have paid little attention to the problem. Engineers at the auto makers say they work mainly on protecting the occupants of the vehicles they design and have no formal procedures for calculating and reducing the risk to occupants of other vehicles.
*The auto makers play down the risk to people in cars posed by much heavier pickups and sport utility vehicles. Yet in fighting Federal regulations intended to make new cars more fuel efficient, they have warned against building lightweight cars because they would be much more dangerous in crashes with vehicles already on the road.
*American car makers have largely ignored how the design of a vehicle may affect other vehicles in a crash, contending that it is weight difference, and not design, that determines who lives and who dies in crashes. Yet research in Britain has found -- and the top safety official for the American auto manufacturers' trade group agrees -- that sport utility vehicles and pickups are particularly deadly when they hit a car in the side because they ride higher off the ground and are more likely to strike the occupant of the car in the head and chest.
Crashes with light trucks, particularly pickups and sport utility vehicles, are especially deadly for people riding in the small, fuel-efficient cars that have been produced over the last quarter-century in an attempt to reduce gasoline consumption and pollution. And pickups and sport utility vehicles pose an even bigger threat for the extremely fuel-efficient, 2,000-pound family cars that auto makers say they will build early in the next century.
Highway safety groups have also largely ignored the issue, focusing on air bags, fuel-tank safety and other concerns. Indeed, safety experts and auto makers in Europe, where there are many small cars, have been doing more about the dangers of light trucks than their American counterparts, even though sport utility vehicles and pickups are less common there.
Germany's equivalent of the American Automobile Association performed a crash test in 1993 that involved a nearly head-on collision at 31 miles per hour between a 2,400-pound Volkswagen Golf and a 4,800-pound Nissan sport utility vehicle. The Nissan rode up over the Volkswagen's hood nearly to the base of the Golf's windshield; the crash dummy in the Golf suffered head injuries that measured 3,177 on a scale for which readings above 1,000 are considered fatal. Partly in response to that test, Mercedes-Benz has designed its new sport utility vehicle to reduce the damage to cars.
But it is the Big Three American car makers -- General Motors, Ford and Chrysler -- that make 86 percent of the nation's light trucks and all of the biggest sport utility vehicles. These vehicles are their most profitable models; Ford earns as much as $14,000 on each of its biggest sport utility vehicles, the 5,200-pound Expedition and the similar 5,600-pound Lincoln Navigator. In fact, the Big Three earn their entire profit on light truck sales, barely breaking even on cars.
Of course, sport utility vehicles and pickups do not cause accidents; people do, when they drink, speed or otherwise show poor judgment. Executives at Detroit auto makers are quick to point this out. They also note that light trucks are a lot smaller than some other vehicles on the road, like tractor-trailers. "Even if you're driving a tank down the road, you could always get hit by a locomotive," said Robert Purcell, G.M.'s director of advanced technology.
The auto makers contend buyers need vehicles that ride high so they can drive off paved roads. In fact, few buyers use light trucks this way. According to an internal memorandum, the Big Three found in a joint 1995 study that only 13 percent of sport utility vehicles were driven off road, 18 percent of pickups and no mini-vans.
Most of all, auto executives say they are simply building the vehicles that Americans want. And the sales figures bear them out. Nearly seven million vehicles or 44 percent of all autos sold last year -- were light trucks, compared with 16 percent in 1971. The fastest-growing sales are for the biggest light trucks; almost three million of those sold last year weighed more than 4,000 pounds. Sales of the biggest sport utility vehicles have quintupled in six years, while the overall auto market has grown only 23 percent.
"It's a good formula for the customer, and that's what we're providing," said Alexander Trotman, Ford's chairman.
 
Death Toll Rises
5,447 Killed Last Year In Car-Truck Wrecks
Just as it is hard to prove that any one victim of lung cancer acquired it through smoking, it is hard to prove in any specific crash that the people in the car would have fared better if hit by another car instead of a light truck. And just as the main evidence for the harm of cigarettes lies in studies of thousands of smokers, the best evidence for the problems created by light trucks lies in statistics on thousands of crashes.
More Americans (5,447 last year) now die in crashes involving a car and a light truck than in crashes involving two cars (4,193), according to Federal statistics. This is the case even though there are twice as many cars as light trucks on the road and even though car-to-car collisions remain more common than car-to-light-truck collisions. And for every person who dies in a light truck that collides with a car, four people die in cars hit by light trucks.
Pickups and sport utility vehicles are becoming a lot heavier, and potentially more deadly, as more buyers choose more powerful engines and amenities like air- conditioning and plusher interiors. The latest Suburbans, for example, are a half ton heavier than the 1985 model that hit the Hassan family's Concorde. The extra weight can make a bad crash worse.
Take a collision between a 2,900-pound Honda Accord and a 6,000-pound Chevrolet Suburban. The Accord driver would be at least 13 times as likely to be killed as the Suburban driver, based on a formula calculated for crashes by Leonard Evans, a top safety researcher at G.M. The formula was based on car-to-car crashes and may understate the danger of a crash with a light truck.
One big insurer, the Progressive Corporation in Cleveland, has already raised liability premiums for sport utility vehicles and large pickup trucks after an analysis determined that medical bills for people hit by these vehicles were unusually high. Other insurers are considering similar moves.
Police investigators who handle traffic accidents do not need such statistics to convince them of the dangers of light trucks. They say that many of the worst crashes they see these days, with deaths and especially serious injuries, occur in collisions between light trucks and cars.
While mini-vans are classified by the Government as light trucks, experts say they are less deadly because they tend to weigh less than other light trucks, ride closer to the ground and have frames that are less damaging in crashes. Indeed, even a mini-van can fare poorly in collisions with other light trucks. Cynthia S. Wellons of Hampton, Ga., was driving a 3,200-pound Dodge Caravan mini-van last June when the driver of a 4,500-pound Chevrolet Blazer coming the opposite way had a coughing fit and, police say, crossed the center line.
The Blazer, with its high bumper and frame, ran up on the mini-van's hood, crushing the engine, dashboard and steering wheel onto Ms. Wellons, who was wearing a seat belt but was killed. The Blazer's driver, Richard D. Thornton, suffered a bruised heart and lung and was released after a night in the hospital. "If I'd been in a smaller vehicle and they were in the same, they probably would be better, but I'd be dead," Mr. Thornton said, adding that he hoped to buy another sport utility vehicle.
In this crash and in the one that killed Mr. Hassan on Long Island, the victims might have died even if hit by a car. Both crashes may have involved some driver error. The driver of the Suburban who hit the Hassans, Anthony Montouri, has been charged with driving under the influence of alcohol; he has denied any wrongdoing.
But in each case, accident investigators concluded that the accidents would have been less severe if only cars had been involved. The Suburban that hit the Hassans' Concorde was "up much higher than if it were a car, and that means more intrusion into the vehicle," said Gary T. Ferrucci, a Nassau County accident investigator.
 
Federal Testing
Difference in Weight And Height Is Ignored
For two decades the Government has tested cars for how well they protect occupants in crashes and then rated them according to the results. Reprinted by car buying guides and cited in automotive advertising, these ratings influence the buying decisions of millions of Americans.
But given the proliferation of sport utility vehicles and pickups, the crash test results seem increasingly irrelevant.
The tests were created in the 1970's, when light trucks were mainly pickups for commercial and agricultural use and accounted for only a sixth of the auto makers' sales, compared with nearly half now. The tests require family vehicles to protect occupants from death when crashed at 30 m.p.h. into a concrete barrier. The Government gives safety ratings of one to five stars based on separate concrete-barrier tests at 35 m.p.h., supplemented more recently by side-impact tests that involve slamming a 3,015-pound sled against the vehicle.
But hurling a car into a concrete barrier is equivalent only to crashing it into another car of the same weight. Indeed, the Government attaches a little-known footnote: The ratings are valid only for collisions with vehicles within 500 pounds of the same weight. So, while the 2,300-pound Honda Civic won four stars for the safety of the driver and five stars for the safety of the front passenger, it is really no match for the 5,600-pound Lincoln Navigator, a sport utility vehicle that has the same ratings.
Some safety experts think another caveat is needed: that the ratings may not hold true for collisions with higher vehicles that may override the bumpers and other protective features of a car. When a car runs into a concrete barrier, the impact always occurs precisely on the bumper, which tends to be in front of the vehicle's strongest parts. But while car bumpers are required to withstand impacts at a height of 16 to 20 inches off the ground, light truck bumpers are not regulated and often extend much higher.
Installing four-wheel-drive -- twice as common now as a decade ago -- raises a vehicle's underbody by two or three more inches. While many manufacturers try to make sure that the bottom edge of their light truck bumpers extends below 20 inches, safety experts at insurers and elsewhere say this does not do much good.
"If you get a frontal collision, the sport utility vehicle bumper will tend to go over the hood of the car -- that's bad," said Charles R. Baker, a top Honda engineer.
New research in Britain suggests that height differences could be particularly important when sport utility vehicles and pickups hit cars in the side. Side impacts account for nearly a third of all car-occupant deaths each year. Yet Federal tests in the United States only measure a car or light truck's ability to withstand being hit in the side by the equivalent of a midsize sedan.
The 3,015-pound sled used for the side-impact test has a bumper with a lower edge only 13 inches off the ground and a top edge 21 inches high. The lower edge of the test sled is designed to reflect the fact that most vehicles brake before hitting a car in the side, so their bumpers are a little lower than usual. But the low edge also means that the test sled hits not only the car door, which is relatively weak, but also the side of the car's underbody, its sturdiest part, typically 15 inches off the ground.
Police calculate that the Suburban that hit the Hassans' Concorde passed entirely over the car's door sills, with the main blow to the Concorde coming 24 inches off the ground. Similarly, the Transport Research Laboratory, a safety research group recently sold by the British Government, crashed a 3,800-pound Range Rover into the side of a 2,200-pound Ford Escort at 18 m.p.h. last year and found no contact with the sill at all.
Barry Felrice, the top safety official at the American Automobile Manufacturers Association, acknowledges that because sport utility vehicles and pickups ride higher above the road than cars, their side-impact collisions with cars tend to be more severe. "You're likely to be hit in the parts of the body that are more prone to injury," he said, "like the chest or the head."
 
Slow Response
Government and Big 3 Pay Little Attention
Some recent Government studies support the concerns about light trucks and the adequacy of the current crash tests. The policy planning staff at the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, for instance, issued statistical studies this summer concluding that serious injuries could be reduced if light trucks weighed less. And two of the agency's senior researchers did a little-noticed study early last year in which they concluded that current crash tests are inadequate when the nation's vehicles are increasingly split between low-slung cars and high-riding light trucks.
"The effect of this tremendous degree of fleet incompatibility is not measured directly by frontal-barrier crash tests and will be the focus of future research," concluded the study's authors, William T. Hollowell and Hampton C. Gabler.
Largely missing from research on the dangers light trucks pose to cars are crash tests and studies by universities and private companies. With a staff of fewer than 700 people and a budget that has shrunk by 19 percent since 1980 after inflation, the safety agency relies heavily on outsiders for statistical research and entirely on outside companies for crash tests. But the $800,000 annual budget for such outside work on crashes between cars and light trucks has been spent almost entirely on air-bag research for two years.
This budget will be replenished on Oct. 1. It will pay for two to five crash tests this winter, provided the money is not transferred again to air-bag studies.
Philip Recht, the deputy administrator of the safety agency, defended its spending decisions, saying that Federal officials had given more attention to crashes between light trucks and cars over the last several years and would step up their research.
Yet the tests tentatively planned for this winter will not provide the basis for any rule changes, said a Federal official who insisted on anonymity, adding, "That's just enough to start providing more questions."
Detroit has also paid little attention to the size mismatch among vehicles -- unless it served the auto makers' purposes in resisting fuel-economy rules.
In the late 1970's, the Ford Motor Company developed a computer program to predict what would happen when a new car or light truck struck other vehicles. But when Federal regulators chose to focus on air bags and other safety gear instead of demanding so-called compatible designs, Ford cut back its efforts. Other auto makers never even started comparable efforts.
Chris Magee, Ford's director of vehicle systems engineering, who worked on the program, said crash compatibility was not an active part of design. "We first of all worry in most cases about the occupants of the vehicle we're selling," he said. "As far as vehicle mix aspects, we might look at them, but there's not really any processes or procedures for doing anything."
Some auto officials contend that the shift to light trucks might actually be saving lives over all. Indeed, heavier vehicles tend to protect occupants better than lighter vehicles not only when a driver crashes into another vehicle but also into a tree or some other object, they point out.
Yet insurance industry crash statistics offer little support for this optimism. People in pickups and all but the largest sport utility vehicles actually are killed at a higher rate in single-vehicle accidents than people in cars. This is partly because these vehicles are more often driven by men, who have more accidents than women, but also because the vehicles' high centers of gravity make it easier to roll over than cars.
As for whether the lower death rates in light trucks more than offset the higher death rates in cars, no one yet knows.
 
What Might Be Done
Changes in Design That Could Help
Worried about a possible backlash from drivers of small cars, Mercedes-Benz has gone to great lengths to reduce the threat that its new 4,200-pound, $34,445 sport utility vehicle poses to cars. Below and behind the bumper is a hollow, horizontal tube that amounts to a second bumper at the same height as a car underbody. The tube and two hollow steel boxes behind it are designed to crush during crashes, absorbing energy that might otherwise be transmitted to either vehicle's occupants. Mercedes crashed the vehicle at 31 m.p.h. into a Mercedes so small it is not sold in the United States; a crash dummy in the car "survived."
Officials at Volvo, long known for safe design, acknowledge that their cars are no match for a large sport utility vehicle. They are moving to install side air bags to provide more protection to the head and chest. Ford plans to announce a similar move soon. The only Big Three car with side air bags now is the Cadillac DeVille.
The auto industry has split in recent months over whether the biggest sport utility vehicles and pickups should be made with frames that bend more on impact, absorbing energy in a crash. But less stiff frames could be less safe for the people in the trucks.
The traffic safety agency has the authority to require crash tests in which the auto maker must prove any new car or light truck does not inflict excessive damage on existing vehicles during collisions. If the agency did require such proof, auto makers would have to choose among reducing the weight, height or stiffness of the deadliest models. But with research barely begun, regulators say they are not in a position even to draft such a rule.
Some Federal safety officials hope that Congress will allow the minimum standard for fuel economy in light trucks to be raised. Light trucks have ballooned in size and weight because each auto maker needs only to sell light trucks with an average fuel economy of 20.7 miles a gallon, compared with the car target of 27.5 miles a gallon.
Yet Congress, after lobbying from American auto makers, has barred the traffic safety agency for the last two years from spending any money even to study whether fuel-economy standards should be raised.
For now, the likelihood is that sport utility vehicles will become more popular, and car occupants will account for an ever more disproportionate share of fatalities. This bothers some safety experts.
"If you can afford to buy this $36,000 sport utility vehicle, then you have a better chance of surviving than this poor guy down the street who can only afford to buy a car," said John Taylor, a professional accident investigator in White Haven, Pa.
Yet after seeing too many car occupants killed or crippled by light trucks, even Mr. Taylor now drives a 4,200-pound Ford Explorer. "Sport utility vehicles are great," he said, "for the guy that owns them."

GRAPHIC: Photos: WHEN A CAR MEETS A SPORT UTILITY VEHICLE -- One person was killed and another critically injured when a Chrysler Concorde midsize sedan, left, was struck by a Chevrolet Suburban, above, last spring on Long Island. The 5,000-pound sport utility vehicle, which suffered far less damage, shoved the 3,300-pound car sideways for 50 feet into a tree. (Nassau County Police)(pg. D6); U.S. officials have not done tests on minimizing damage when high-riding vehicles strike small cars. In Britain, a Range Rover caused serious damage to a Ford Escort at 18.6 miles per hour. (Transport Research Laboratory)(pg. A1)
 
Chart/Photo: "Consequences of a Collision"
Collisions involving a car and a light truck like a sport utility vehicle still make up a minority of two-vehicle crashes but now account for the majority of deaths in those crashes, and 80 percent of these deaths are in the cars. Some researchers say light trucks are dangerous in such crashes not only because they weigh more but also because they ride higher off the ground.
ADAC motorwelt
 
Germany's equivalent of the American Automobile Association performed a crash test in 1993 that involved a nearly head-on collision at 31 m.p.h. between a 2,400-pound Volkswagen Golf and a 4,800-pound Nissan sport-utility vehicle. The crash dummy in the Golf suffered head injuries that measured 3,177 on a scale for which readings above 1,000 are considered fatal. Partly in response to that test, Mercedes-Benz has designed its new sport-utility vehicle with features to reduce the potential damage it might do to cars in collisions. (Photograph by ADAC Motorwelt)
 
Chart: "The Risk of Being Killed"
When a car collides with a vehicle twice its weight, the driver of the car is 13 times as likely to be killed as the driver of the heavier vehicle, according to an analysis by a G.M. researcher of records for nearly 40,000 deaths in car-to-car crashes. (The company has used such calculations to oppose Federal fuel-economy standards that would require lighter cars.)
 
The chart at right shows how differences in weight affect the risk to drivers. Highlighted are examples of the number of drivers of a 2,900-pound car like a Honda Accord who would be killed for every driver killed in various heavier vehicles in collisions. For example, in a crash between an Accord and a Chevrolet Suburban, the Accord driver would be 13 times as likely to die as the Suburban driver. Chart shows number of lighter-vehicle drivers killed for each heavier-vehicle driver killed in a collision.
 
(Sources: General Motors technical paper (death odds); National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (weights))
(pg. D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; UTILITY VEHICLES; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; AUTOMOBILE SAFETY FEATURES AND DEFECTS MOTOR VEHICLES (96%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (78%); SEDANS (78%); VEHICLE CRASH TESTING (78%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (77%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (77%); PRODUCT SAFETY (77%); SPORTS INJURIES (76%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (76%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (76%); MINIVANS (75%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (75%); ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); CHILDREN (71%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); STATISTICS (66%); INSURANCE (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1997



474 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 281 words

HEADLINE: THE AD CAMPAIGN;
McGreevey Says State Ranks First in All the Wrong Things

BYLINE: By JENNIFER PRESTON 

 BODY:
This is a 30-second television advertisement from the campaign of James E. McGreevey, the State Senator and Mayor of Woodbridge Township, who is the Democratic gubernatorial nominee challenging Gov. Christine Todd Whitman in November. 

PRODUCER -- Message and Media; Struble Oppel Donovan.
 
ON THE SCREEN -- With her back to the camera and wearing what appears to be a blond wig, an actress chants "We're No. 1," as headlines appear and an announcer says that New Jersey has the nation's highest property taxes and auto insurance rates. Then, Mr. McGreevey appears and speaks.
 
SCRIPT -- Actress: "We're No. 1! We're No. 1!"
 
Announcer: "Yeah, New Jersey's No. 1. We now pay the highest property taxes in the nation. After the state borrowed billions, we have the largest pension bond debt. And we still pay the highest car insurance in the nation."
 
Mr. McGreevey: "We need to change our priorities. Instead of gimmicks, we need a sound manager who cuts waste, improves our school, and finally takes on the insurance companies."
 
ACCURACY -- According to a recent study by the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy in Washington, home-owning couples in New Jersey paid the highest average property taxes in the nation in 1995, the latest year for which figures were available. New Jersey's average auto insurance rates have been the highest in the nation for years, according to the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. New Jersey sold almost $3 billion in pension obligation bonds this year, the largest borrowing in the state's history and the first time a state has borrowed money to cover pension liabilities. JENNIFER PRESTON

GRAPHIC: Photo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICAL ADVERTISING; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); RANKINGS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); INSURANCE (75%); BONDS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (70%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (70%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (70%); HISTORY (66%); 

PERSON: PRESTON, JENNIFER; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (SEN) MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1997



475 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: McGreevey Takes On Whitman's Good-Times Theme

BYLINE: By MELODY PETERSEN 

DATELINE: WOODBRIDGE, N.J., Sept. 23

 BODY:
State Senator James E. McGreevey unveiled his first television advertisement today with what his strategists say will be his message over the next six weeks: the state's economy might be getting stronger, but New Jersey voters still pay some of the highest auto insurance rates and property taxes in the nation.
By emphasizing the two pocketbook issues that polls show are now voters' greatest concerns, Mr. McGreevey, the Democratic nominee for governor, is trying to undermine Gov. Christine Todd Whitman's campaign theme that the state is headed in the right direction under her leadership. 
 "Has the Governor not said that things are great?" said Thomas Oppel, of Struble Oppel Donovan, a political consulting firm in Washington that is advising Mr. McGreevey's campaign for governor.
"We're saying today that there is another side of the story, and that there are issues that she is not talking about."
The Governor's campaign aides offered a quick retort. "I walk outside and see the sun rise," said Pete McDonough, a spokesman for Mrs. Whitman's campaign, "and they walk outside and see the sky falling."
After making automobile insurance the focal point of her re-election campaign over the summer, Governor Whitman has been trying to move the campaign debate away from insurance and toward her accomplishments during her first term.
In her first television advertisement released last week, Mrs. Whitman cited her record, saying that she had cut taxes, strengthened the economy, reduced crime and put welfare recipients to work. In another spot, released this week, she criticized Mr. McGreevey for raising property taxes as Mayor of Woodbridge Township, and for voting in favor of Gov. Jim Florio's $2.8 billion tax increase in 1990.
Indeed, Mrs. Whitman has benefited from being in office at a time when New Jersey's economy is outpacing that of New York and Connecticut.
But although New Jersey has nearly recovered the jobs lost during the recession of the late 1980's and early 1990's, Mr. McGreevey often says, most of the gains have been in low-wage jobs, which do not provide the same salaries and benefits as the manufacturing jobs that were lost.
And while the state's economy is now bustling, the cost of living in New Jersey has become more expensive, an issue that Mr. McGreevey's consultants said they would focus on in the campaign.
"There are two New Jerseys," said Douglas E. Schoen, of Penn, Schoen & Berland Associates in New York City, who is Mr. McGreevey's pollster. "There is a New Jersey that is bustling, but there is also a New Jersey where people can't afford their property taxes or their auto insurance. People are feeling squeezed."
In his advertisement, Mr. McGreevey attempts to mock the Governor for her claims about New Jersey's healthy economy.
At the beginning of his spot, an actress with her back to the camera, who is meant to be an image of the Governor, waves a sign often carried by sports fans that says, "We're # 1."
"Yeah, New Jersey's No. 1," an announcer says sarcastically, before noting the cost of property taxes and auto insurance.
The 30-second spot also cites another issue Mr. McGreevey's consultants expect to focus on: the Whitman administration's issuing of $2.76 billion in bonds early this year, the largest borrowing in state history. The bonds covered a deficit in the state's pension system that the Governor had helped create by putting less money in the pension plan than actuaries said was needed. Taxpayers will pay more than $10 billion over the next 35 years to pay off the bonds.
 Mrs. Whitman has defended the bonds, saying that taxpayers will save money in the long run.
In another campaign development, the nonpartisan Office of Legislative Services, which analyzes the cost and feasibility of proposed state legislation, said today that Mr. McGreevey's proposal to lower auto insurance rates by executive order could be unconstitutional. His proposal of a 10 percent across-the-board premium reduction is the centerpiece of his plan for reducing auto insurance rates.
The analysts also said Mr. McGreevey's plan to issue an executive order demanding that all insurance companies lower their rates would "probably exceed the Governor's authority."
Mr. McGreevey's campaign aides dismissed the analysts' opinion, noting that it had been requested by a Republican State Senator, Gerald Cardinale of Bergen County, who is chairman of the the Senate committee that handles insurance bills. Mr. McGreevey's staff members said he believed his proposal would withstand any court test.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTION ISSUES; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE AND LIABILITY; TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTIONS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); RECESSION (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); TAX LAW (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); COST OF LIVING (77%); MAYORS (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (72%); TRENDS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (57%); 

PERSON: PETERSEN, MELODY; MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (SEN) MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1997



476 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 158 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business Briefs;
Steady Jobless Rates

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON 

 BODY:
New York City's unemployment rate remained unchanged in August at 9.5 percent, hovering at nearly twice the national jobless rate of 4.9 percent, the New York State Department of Labor said yesterday. The state's unemployment rate, at 6.4 percent, seasonally adjusted, was also unchanged from July. 
 The department said the state actually lost jobs, mainly because of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters' strike at United Parcel Service. New York had 13,500 fewer people working during August than in July, in the category that includes U.P.S., transportation and public utilities.
Other long-term trends remained mostly unchanged. New York City continues to add jobs in business services, financial services and tourism in particular. An additional category that has showed renewed strength in recent months is publishing, which has added about 1,000 jobs in the city in the last 12 months, the state said. KIRK JOHNSON

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (57%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (57%); INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (94%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); JOB CREATION (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); TRENDS (67%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1997



477 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Reacts To Clinton: 'Show Me The Money'

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 23

 BODY:
President Clinton's motorcade had not left United Nations territory on Monday before the recriminations against the world's biggest deadbeat began.
"Non-payments are unacceptable," said Bjorn Tore Godal, Norway's Foreign Minister, without actually naming the United States or saying it owes the United Nations about $1.5 billion and no checks are in the mail. He didn't have to. 
 "How can those of us who always make a point of paying in full and on time, without conditions, expect our citizens to continue financing free riders?" he asked in a speech on Monday.
Today it was the turn of others, among them Russia, the big European Union and little Andorra, whose President of Government, Marc Forne Molne, asked: "If each citizen of my country can pay nearly two dollars a year to the regular budget of the organization, why can't the people of other developed countries do the same?"
Britain's Foreign Secretary, Robin Cook, said today that "it is not equitable that some members pay their contributions while others do not." He noted that calls for stronger united action against organized crime and the narcotics trade -- goals of the Clinton Administration -- would carry a price.
"We cannot defeat the well-resourced menaces to the modern world through a U.N. that staggers from year to year on the verge of bankruptcy," he said.
President Clinton, in his speech on Monday, repeated the promise that Congressional action on payments was near and that the Administration was confident that American assessments would be met. But at the United Nations there is less and less willingness to believe that this will happen, at least not anytime soon. And there is not much of a rush to formally lower the United States' portion of contributions to meet the demands of Washington.
The United States is assessed 25 percent of the regular United Nations budget, based roughly on its proportional share of the world economy, and wants to reduce that to 20 percent over three years. Washington is charged about 31 percent of the peacekeeping budget and pays -- when it pays -- 25 percent under a 1994 law passed by Congress in contravention of international treaty obligations.
Furthermore, an American proposal to enlarge the Security Council by giving Japan, Germany and three developing nations permanent seats with no promise of veto power has so far evinced only faint praise at best in this year's General Assembly debate.
Alfred Nzo, South Africa's Foreign Minister, reflected a third-world view when he said in his speech that "a limited expansion of only five or six new Security Council seats will not fulfill the crucial requirement of transforming the Security Council into a representative organ."
In Washington, a Congressional conference committee working on the budget provisions covering the United Nations and other international organizations is racing to beat a deadline at the end of the month, but is still stymied by a House of Representatives amendment that would link appropriations to a rider prohibiting American support for any organization or national family planning program that condones abortion.
Even if the anti-abortion amendment, proposed by Christopher Smith, a New Jersey Republican, is withdrawn, there are other amendments sought by the Administration that must be discussed, said David E. Birenbaum, chairman of the Emergency Coalition for U.S. Financial Support of the United Nations, a private organization of Americans prominent in foreign affairs. The group was founded less than a year ago when it became apparent that the Clinton Administration was prepared to cut a deal with Congress that would fall short of full payment of American arrears. Jimmy Carter and all seven living former Secretaries of State joined the group.
Mr. Birenbaum, who until last year was the United States diplomat in charge of budgetary negotiations at the United Nations, said that the two most important measures yet to be considered are a proposal that would allow the President to waive certain conditions Congress wants to attach to payments --some of which diplomats here see as not only impossible to accommodate but offensive to other nations -- and a measure allowing the United Nations to keep about $107 million owed to the United States for contributions toward peacekeeping operations. The latter would, in effect, additionally reduce what Washington owes.
"But even if the legislation is enacted and all the conditions are met, the United States will still owe the United Nations a substantial amount of money," Mr. Birenbaum said in an interview. "By anybody's reckoning, what Congress is appropriating is not the full amount to pay our debt."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); NORWAY (92%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%); ANDORRA (71%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS; SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS; SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; GERMANY; UNITED STATES (98%); NORWAY (92%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%); ANDORRA (71%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); VETO (79%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (66%); ORGANIZED CRIME (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); LEGISLATION (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1997



478 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: In California, a Candidate Makes an Early Entry Into the Governor's Race

BYLINE: By DON TERRY 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 24

 BODY:
With deep pockets and years of experience in the often cut-throat world of corporate takeovers, the wealthy businessman Alfred A. Checchi has officially declared himself a candidate to become the next Governor of California.
Mr. Checchi, who announced his candidacy on Tuesday in Sacramento, has never run for elective office, but he has a personal fortune estimated at $550 million and he has said he would be willing to spend up to $30 million of his own money to get elected, a pronouncement that left H. Eric Schockman, a professor of political science at the University of Southern California, uneasy about the future of politics, money and the price of democracy in the Golden State. 
 "I'm both enthralled and disturbed by Al Checchi's announcement," Mr. Schockman said today. "I'm enthralled on one level that people who have risen to the top of their field in the private sector believe that there is honor in public life. What disturbs me is this new trend in California politics of multimillionaires throwing their hat into the ring and using at least part of their wealth for the campaign."
Already, Mr. Checchi, a 49-year-old Democrat, has been compared to Michael Huffington, another rich man who was willing to help buy his way to political power. After spending nearly $29 million of his own money in his unsuccessful 1994 Senate campaign in California, Mr. Huffington, a Republican, was narrowly defeated by Senator Dianne Feinstein.
But Mr. Schockman said the comparison was unfair. "It is the reverse of Huffington, who woke up one day and decided that he wanted to be senator," he said. "Checchi has been traversing the state, meeting people and speaking at public engagements."
Indeed, when he announced his candidacy for Governor, Mr. Checchi was joined by two people -- a farmer and a father whose son was killed in gang violence -- whom he had met during his months of crisscrossing the state and talking with ordinary people and political, social and economic experts in 50 cities.
"I believe we need both real world experience and new ideas," Mr. Checchi said in his announcement speech. "On issue after issue, the citizens I have met know that the old politics and the old ways won't do."
With Pete Wilson, the Republican incumbent, unable to seek a third term as Governor under California law, Mr. Checchi is the second Democrat to declare his candidacy for the state's top job. Lieut. Gov. Gray Davis has also made his plans clear. But Mr. Schockman of U.S.C. said that the California Attorney General, Dan Lungren, a Republican, appeared to be the front runner.
The primary is not until June 2, 1998, and the field undoubtedly will get even more crowded. And although Mr. Checchi has an uphill battle in front of him, he has plenty of money to buy climbing equipment.
One of Mr. Checchi's biggest promises -- to cut the state bureaucracy by 10 percent if he is elected -- is an old issue that more experienced politicians have given up on, said Sherry Bebitch Jeffe, a professor at the Center for Politics and Economics at the Claremont Graudate University in Claremont, Calif.
"It doesn't work," she said. "You just can't take a sledgehammer to government. I was surprised when I heard that."
Ideologically, Mr. Checchi is a hard man to pin down. He wants to expand the death penalty, but he also supports abortion rights and affirmative action.
"I think he's trying very purposely not to be able to be pigeonholed," Ms. Jeffe said. "He's using a boutique approach to make him attractive across the board."

 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS (56%); GOLDEN STATE IRRIGATION SERVICES (56%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (77%); TRENDS (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (55%); 

PERSON: TERRY, DON; CHECCHI, ALFRED A DANIEL E LUNGREN (57%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1997



479 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 22; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Many Factors Prompt Rise In Bond Prices

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Treasury prices turned sharply higher yesterday, as market participants weathered the Treasury's auction of new five-year notes and reacted to a number of other factors including a report that the Government was likely to curtail its borrowing needs in the coming fiscal year.
At the shorter end of the curve, the shorter-maturity bills again made strong gains as the end-of-quarter buying continued. The rate on three-month bills dropped eight-hundredths of a percentage point, to 4.77 percent. 
 The 30-year bond gained nearly a full point, up 30/32, to a price of 100 27/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 6.31 percent, from 6.38 percent on Tuesday and the lowest since 6.29 percent on July 29.
Ahead of the five-year sale, interest by smaller investors was seen at the 6 percent level, as dealers tried to discount the note further to quicken its sale and distribution, not wanting the auction to be as disappointing as the two-year note auction on Tuesday.
James Padinha, an economist at Briefing.com, a market analysis firm in Menlo Park, Calif., said the auction results were not exceptional. "Building into the auction, however, if you wanted to play the momentum you were fine," he said. "If you were playing the trading view, maybe you were O.K., and if you were taking the fundamental view, no way."
At the Treasury's $11.5 billion auction yesterday, the new five-year notes were sold at the high yield of 5.960 percent, the lowest since 5.950 percent on Nov. 26, 1996.
Barry Evans, senior vice president and portfolio manager at John Hancock Funds, said: "With rates nearing the lows of the year, I think buyers of mortgage-backed securities are anxious about a potential wave of refinancing. To calm their anxiety, they are chasing the five-year notes."
Other factors behind the market increase included short-covering following talk of hedge fund and central bank buying. Short-covering occurs when speculators, who sell borrowed securities in hopes of buying them back later at lower prices, are forced to scramble and buy back the securities before they incur losses when the market moves up. There was also some hope that the Fed would come to market to do a coupon pass, that is come in as a buyer of various maturities.
Government securities were also bolstered from a Market News Service story that focused on the improved Federal budget outlook and how it would probably curtail the financing needs of the Treasury beginning in October, the start of the Government's new fiscal year.
Any reduction in financing needs by the Government is seen in the long run as increasing prices and lowering yields.
Robert Pugliese, senior vice president and director of the fixed-income department at J. W. Charles Securities Inc. in Boca Raton, Fla., said he saw the signs of a large hedge fund buying as well as central bank buying. "Based on the current rate of inflation, the real rate of a 30-year bond, which is the nominal rate minus inflation, should be 5.50 percent," he said.
Even with all the strong buying the market was unable to break through some strong overhead resistance, said Doug Burtnick, managing analyst with Technical Data of Boston. "You can't argue with the fact that the longer-term prospects still look constructive or that both the investment and dealer communities are looking for opportunities to trade from the long side."
The following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new five-year notes:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
High Price . . . 99.637
High Yield . . . 5.960%
Low Yield . . . 5.900%
Median Yield . . . 5.945%
Accepted at low price . . . 39%
Total applied for . . . $35,373,148
Accepted . . . $12,783,978
Noncompetitive . . . $911,236
Interest set at . . . 5 7/8%
 
The five-year notes mature Sept. 30, 2002.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since June. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT BRIEFING.COM (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (70%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BOND MARKETS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); BONDS (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); BUDGETS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (68%); NEWS BRIEFS (66%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%); EXECUTIVES (63%); HEDGE FUNDS (62%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1997



480 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: With Sales Slow in Asia, Gucci Shares Take a Big Hit

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
In the slick new advertising campaign for the fall line of Gucci apparel, there is nary an Asian face among the models seen frolicking in various stages of undress. But it is that customer, and her powerful spending ability, that helped send the Gucci Group's stock flying last year. And her pullback is what led to its tremendous fall yesterday.
The company's stock traded in the United States tumbled more than 18 percent yesterday, falling $10.875, to $47.375, after Gucci announced earnings that missed analysts' expectations and said that sales for the rest of the year would be sluggish because of a slowdown in the Japanese market. Gucci, which is based in Florence, said that fiscal first-half net income rose to $90.3 million, or $1.47 a share, from $69.9 million, or $1.15 a share, in the period a year earlier, a penny shy of analysts' per-share estimates. 
 Other companies that specialize in luxury goods have also felt the effect of cooling Asian consumer demand.On Tuesday, LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton said that its first-half profit rose 10 percent, to 1.77 billion francs from 1.54 billion francs in the year-earlier period, but that its cognac and spirits business fell almost 20 percent, and analysts said that the rest of the year looked grim in Asia. Sales at the jewelry manufacturer Bulgari have also risen more slowly.
Asian consumers, principally Japanese, account for about 45 percent of sales of luxury goods, primarily leather items and shoes.
Now a variety of factors are keeping Asian shoppers at home. Japan's economy is in a deep slump, in part because of a consumer tax increase in April. Japan's yen has fallen against the dollar, while the currencies of a number of Southeast Asian countries have also weakened sharply during the last several months. That increases the amount of local currency that is needed to buy foreign goods.
As a result, companies like Gucci and LVMH have watched sales of trendy shoes, pricey cognacs and silk scarves taper off. For example, in its most recent quarter, cognac profits fell 19 percent at LVMH, because of a 20 percent decrease in Japanese shipments. Further, perfume sales have declined, and analysts believe that a recent acquisition of DFS Group Ltd., which sells perfumes in duty-free shops, contributed to the problem as sales fell 50 percent in the first half of the year. Yesterday, four Paris brokerage firms cut their recommendations on LVMH; at least two American firms did so yesterday with Gucci.
"The dominating factor is that high interest rates have forced these companies into taking a much more conservative position," said Ron Leven, currency strategist at J. P. Morgan in New York. "In terms of looking at these companies' performance, we don't think these situations are going to turn around quickly."
The hammering was bitter for Gucci, which has been a darling of Wall Street since its initial public offering in late 1995 at $22 a share. "This is a well-run company that did not disappoint until today," said Josephine Esquivel, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter Discover & Company, who downgraded the stock yesterday to neutral from a strong buy. "I am not sure we have an easy answer." Morgan Stanley was an underwriter of the initial public offering.
Makers of luxury goods have kept their eyes firmly on the emerging markets in Asia. They have hoped to tap into a new consumer base whose pockets are full of fresh open-market capital and whose heads are full of images of advertisements for Western products that suggest a life of wealth, sex and status that can be had through their use.
In an interview, Bernard Arnault, the chairman of LVMH, said that the Pacific Rim was where he expected to get the most growth from some of his recent acquisitions, including a luxury perfume chain. But as lucrative as those markets can be, so can they be risky.
An economic crisis in Thailand has hit that currency hard, and the currencies of Malaysia, the Philippines and Indonesia have suffered as well.
The problems in Japan do not help matters. Weak consumer spending has hurt the economy -- gross domestic product contracted at an annual rate of 11.2 percent in this year's second quarter -- and the yen has fallen.
Domenico De Sole, the chief executive of Gucci, was distressed during a telephone interview yesterday, arguing that the market unfairly punished his company for what he believes is a short-term problem. "We are still up 29 percent in profits," he said. "We still are one of the most profitable companies in the world."
Indeed some investors may see a buying opportunity in Gucci's tremendous fall. But many fret that there may be more downside to Gucci and other luxury-goods stocks before they ride the tide up again. "I think the luxury segment as a whole is dramatically overvalued," said Mark Henwood, a portfolio manager at Tilney & Company in London. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MC (PAR) (96%); LVMH (BIT) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (96%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (96%); SIC3171 WOMEN'S HANDBAGS & PURSES (95%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (62%); SIC5947 GIFT, NOVELTY, & SOUVENIR SHOPS (62%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GUCCI GROUP LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (96%); GUCCI GROUP NV (95%); DFS GROUP LTD (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: GUCCI GROUP

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (58%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CLOTHING LABELS (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); PERFUMES & COLOGNES (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); SALES FIGURES (76%); RETAIL SALES (75%); FOOTWEAR (75%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MFG (64%); JAPANESE YEN (63%); ACQUISITIONS (61%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: STEINHAUER, JENNIFER

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1997



481 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Many Reported Unready To Face Year 2000 Bug

BYLINE: By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
A new study shows that a large proportion of businesses and government agencies around the world are not properly preparing for the effect that the year 2000 will have on their computer systems, increasing the possibility of potentially serious disruptions as the end of the century approaches.
The study by the Gartner Group, an adviser on information technology, found that 30 percent of companies worldwide had not started addressing the year 2000 problem, or the millennium bug, as it is often called. Of these, 88 percent were smaller companies with fewer than 2,000 employees. 
 "We are going to see a very large number of small companies in very serious trouble," said Matthew Hotle, an analyst at Gartner, which is based in Stamford, Conn. "They are not going to finish in time."
The research also showed that large institutions, like universities and hospitals, and Government agencies, were far behind in their efforts. "We were expecting that some agencies would have at least made up some ground over the last six to nine months," Mr. Hotle added, "but they are way behind."
The study, which is scheduled to be issued next month at an annual Gartner Group symposium, comes at a time when concern is rising about the potential impact of the millennium bug. Last week, Representative Steve Horn of California, the Republican chairman of the House subcommittee that oversees information technology issues, graded the preparation efforts of 24 Government agencies. Eleven received either D's or F's, including the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the Department of Energy, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Department of Transportation.
In addition, some prominent economists and William J. McDonough, the president of the New York Federal Reserve Bank, have warned that failure to cope with the 2000 problem properly could cause a global recession.
The millennium bug dates back to the dawn of the computer age, when computer memory was so scarce that programmers abbreviated the year as two digits. A computer that read "97" as a date assumed it meant 1997. After the turn of the century, those same programs, unless corrected, will read "00" as 1900, disrupting everything from the calculation of interest rates to the shelf life of breakfast cereal. Because the two-digit dates appear in different forms in different software, finding and correcting each program is extremely time consuming and labor intensive.
The Gartner Group has said in the past that fixing existing computer software will cost between $300 billion and $600 billion, an estimate that has not been increased as a result of the study. Mr. Hotle said that other estimates, including the costs of new hardware, business interruptions and potential litigation, could push the figure over $1 trillion.
The study surveyed 2,300 companies, institutions and government agencies in 17 countries. Each was given a rating based on their progress. The results show that most large companies are already well along in their efforts to cope with the millennium bug, led by the financial services industry. Though only 52 percent of companies with more than 20,000 employees were considered well positioned, the figure was nearly 80 percent in the United States.
The problem is that many large companies are becoming increasingly dependent on smaller suppliers that may not be as well prepared. For example, if a crucial parts supplier cannot deliver to a big auto maker, it will not matter that the auto company is year-2000 compliant.
"You are going to see some major slowdowns because of these small companies," said Lou Marcoccio, research director of Gartner's year 2000 practice.
Some analysts have also predicted that a number of companies, already teetering on the edge, will go out of business when their computer systems fail as a result of the bug. Edward Yardeni, the chief economist at Deutsche Morgan Grenfell, issued a report last week saying that there is a 35 percent chance that the millennium bug will cause "at least a mild global recession" in 2000.
While the Federal Government has come under criticism in Congress, the Gartner study found that the United States is far ahead of other countries. Last week, the Office of Management and Budget sent a report to Congress predicting that the cost of fixing the Government's computers would be $3.8 billion. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IT (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 ON-LINE INFORMATION SERVICES; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GARTNER GROUP INC GARTNER INC (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: GARTNER GROUP INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; TWO THOUSAND (YEAR) YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (92%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); ENERGY REGULATION (64%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (63%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%); LITIGATION (50%); 

PERSON: ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE ANN LIVERMORE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1997



482 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Carbide's Chief Bets Some Pay On Performance

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
Shareholders distressed by escalating executive pay -- even in the face of mediocre corporate performances -- got what looked like a ray of hope yesterday: William H. Joyce, the chief executive of the Union Carbide Corporation, said he would give back his base salary in the year 2000 if the company failed to earn $4 a share that year, which is expected to be a tough one for the giant chemical company.
But by the end of the day the plan looked a lot less heroic than it had at first blush. Indeed, although the details may differ, the financial impact on Mr. Joyce would be no different from other pay-for-performance plans, in which an executive who fails to reach a financial target loses an opportunity to make extra money. 
 Under the plan, Mr. Joyce and 15 other executives will get extra money if they exceed the figure of $4 a share, which Mr. Joyce has said is his worst-case earnings estimate for 2000. Three analysts surveyed by First Call predicted Union Carbide would earn $4.08 a share in 1999; they did not provide an estimate for 2000.
"Saying you will forfeit your base pay sounds heroic," said Brian Foley, an executive compensation consultant in White Plains. "But it's false bravado, because the economic effect on the executives is exactly the same as it would be if the company just gave them smaller bonuses for not making a target."
Mr. Foley said that base salary accounted for only about one-fifth of the total compensation to Carbide's top five executives so that the executives stood to collect 80 percent of their usual compensation.
The 16 executives will get their paychecks in 2000, said Malcolm Kessinger, Union Carbide vice president for human resources. Then, if Carbide makes less than $4 a share, the company will deduct from the bonuses and other compensation due Mr. Joyce an amount equal to his base pay. For the 15 other executives, it will deduct an amount equal to 65 percent of base pay if earnings fall short of $4 a share.
Union Carbide would not say exactly how much the 16 executives would get in added pay if the company earned more than $4 a share in 2000.
Mr. Foley and Robert Salwen of the Executive Compensation Corporation in New York said that if the company's earnings exceeded $4 a share, the executives could expect extra pay equal to two to five times the amount at risk, depending on how much the target was surpassed.
Mr. Kessinger said that the consultants' estimates were reasonable, but that he could not disclose specifics. He said shareholders would be asked to vote on the plan next April, but even then the full details might not be disclosed.
Mr. Joyce's base pay last year was $737,500. He also received more than $1 million in other cash compensation, $222,000 worth of restricted stock, and options to buy 130,000 Carbide shares. In addition, he owns shares worth more than $12 million and holds options on more than 400,000 shares granted earlier.
"It certainly places more at risk than is customary, but I would not put it in the class of Lee Iacocca rolling the dice," Mr. Salwen said.
Mr. Iacocca, the president of Chrysler, and John Riccardo, the company's chairman, briefly cut their pay to $1 in 1979, when Chrysler was kept going by a Federal loan guarantee, to demonstrate their faith in the car maker's future. They took the rest of their pay in Chrysler stock; its value later soared.
Michael Guthman, a principal in Hewitt Associates, a compensation firm that drew up the Carbide plan, said it had more substance than Mr. Foley's analysis would suggest.
He said that the incentive pay for the 16 executives was based on an established set of performance criteria, but that the risk of giving up all or part of the base pay was based "on a very different criteria." That, Mr. Guthman said, adds an additional element of risk for the executives.
The plan had its genesis in a meeting that Mr. Joyce held with institutional investors in Chicago in late June. Mr. Joyce said then that he thought the stock market was not pricing Carbide shares high enough, and he was frustrated that analysts did not believe that the company would earn $4 in 2000, according to James F. Hickman, an analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston who arranged the meeting.
Mr. Hickman said he asked whether the company should provide incentive pay for executives to meet that target. He recalled that Mr. Joyce replied that since he had already said the company could make $4 a share he feared that shareholders would interpret such bonuses as "stealing from shareholders."
Mr. Kessinger and Mr. Guthman said the new plan was intended to introduce a downside risk, the forfeiture of an amount equal to base pay or 65 percent of base pay, to demonstrate Mr. Joyce's firm belief that Carbide shares are worth more.
Mr. Hickman said that if Mr. Joyce's earnings estimates were correct, it would justify a price of about $80 a share. Carbide's shares closed yesterday at $47.75, up 43.75 cents.
The board increased the quarterly dividend 20 percent, to 22.5 cents.

GRAPHIC: Photo: William H. Joyce, chief executive of Union Carbide, ties salary to earnings. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UK (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: UNION CARBIDE CORP; FIRST CALL UNION CARBIDE CORP (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNION CARBIDE CORP; FIRST CALL

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (69%); NEW YORK, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: WAGES AND SALARIES WAGES & SALARIES (93%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (91%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); MERIT PAY (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (73%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); CHEMICALS (56%); CHEMICALS MFG (56%); 

PERSON: JOYCE, WILLIAM H; JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY WILLIAM H JOYCE (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1997



483 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1467 words

HEADLINE: Lawmaker Takes Highway to Power

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 24

 BODY:
Representative Bud Shuster says he has witnessed some "pretty heady stuff" in his 24 years in Congress, like flying into jungles with Jonas Savimbi, the Angolan rebel leader, and crossing the Khyber Pass with the mujahedeen guerrillas.
But his constituents could not care less about Mr. Shuster's adventures as a senior member of the Intelligence Committee. The majestic Khyber Pass? They are more interested in underpasses -- and cloverleafs, connectors, bridges and tunnels. 
 "We're not talking here about Bosnia, or about who slept in the Lincoln Bedroom," Mr. Shuster said. "We're talking about what affects virtually every American. It's the ultimate quality-of-life issue."
Mr. Shuster's passion for the decidedly passionless subject of asphalt is easily understood: As chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Mr. Shuster has doled out money for so many projects in his colleagues' districts, not to mention the Bud Shuster Highway and Bud Shuster Byway in his district, that he has become one of the most powerful figures on Capitol Hill. And he has risen thus far, despite ongoing inquiries into whether his some of his actions were legal and ethical.
Only today, after a weekslong struggle with Speaker Newt Gingrich over a budget-breaking road bill, Mr. Shuster was blocked -- or at least detoured -- from his project to repave America. His massive, three-year $103 billion transportation package would have breached the balanced-budget bill by at least $30 billion, only weeks after it was signed.
But in a demonstration of Mr. Shuster's clout, Mr. Gingrich was unable to declare a full victory. Instead, he offered, and the Transportation Committee approved today, a compromise in which spending will remain at current levels for six months, and then Mr. Shuster's proposal will be reconsidered.
In an era of belt-tightening in the capital, when committee chairmen no longer hold sway as they once did, a defiant Bud Shuster stands not only as a grand purveyor of pork, but also as a reminder that some things have not changed. The key to Mr. Shuster's leverage is not that he is chairman of a committee -- it is that he is chairman of the 73-member Transportation Committee, the largest in Congress, and he knows how to use the platform to build a power base.
That is made easier by the fact that beyond his home district in hilly Altoona, Pa., Mr. Shuster can distribute booty to every state, winning the allegiance of many of his colleagues. (His largesse helps explain why the 65-year-old Congressman's most serious competitor in years was Nancy Kulp, who played a secretary on "The Beverly Hillbillies." He trounced her in the 1984 contest.)
"It represents an old way of doing business here on Capitol Hill," said Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, chairman of the House Republican Conference.
Until 1994, when the Republicans took over the House, the committee had the pork-barrel-sounding name of Public Works and Transportation. Yet even with the name change, Mr. Shuster's success is a reminder that dispensing "pork" is hardly out of fashion. In a Congress where both parties cannot even seem to agree to disagree, the members of Mr. Shuster's panel behave like a happy family, bound by old-fashioned public works projects to transcend ideology.
"There's no such thing as a Republican or a Democratic road or airport or bridge," Mr. Shuster said in an interview in his Capitol Hill office, decorated with two prominent green replicas of the "Bud Shuster Highway" sign. "These are American assets. We're building America."
Challenging the stereotype of the free-wheeling, barrel-chested chairman, Mr. Shuster is a fitness buff who favors crisply starched shirts (always white) and well-tailored suits, and he does much of his business not over martinis but while pumping iron in the House gym. His demeanor is friendly, rather than that of an intimidating power broker.
But critics argue that Mr. Shuster's approach has less to do with rebuilding unsafe roads and more to do with reward and punishment.
"He's the crown prince of pavement pork," said Thomas A. Schatz, president of Citizens Against Government Waste. "He's an example of the kind of abuse that can still occur. There's lobbyists running all over the capital pushing his stuff."
While Mr. Shuster said he was constrained by formulas that help dictate who gets how much transportation money, he acknowledged that he sometimes had significant discretion. For example, he said two lawmakers from bordering states were in a "bloody fight" because each one wanted a new highway to go through his state and not the other. But he said he gave the project to one, because the person had been "very supportive of us," was "a good guy" and "cares about transportation." He also said that by choosing that lawmaker, he will have "negotiating bait" when the details are worked out.
Despite his successes, Mr. Shuster, who made a fortune building a computer business before coming to Congress, is facing mounting pressure from deficit hawks in his own party who are unwilling to be romanced by the prospect of new projects for their districts. These tensions are bound to surface repeatedly now that there is a balanced budget deal. No one knows whether lawmakers will completely support the budget deal or whether they will back projects that could win them favor with voters.
As an example, Representative Joe Scarborough, a Florida Republican who was elected in 1994, conceded that his state would draw far more transportation money if Mr. Shuster's bill passed. But he said he was willing to resist the projects if that would help balance the budget.
"I think he thinks we're from Mars, from another galaxy," Mr. Scarborough said of Mr. Shuster. "But even if we had a Joe Scarborough Memorial Highway from Key West to Pensacola, I'd have to vote against it if it didn't stay within the budget numbers."
Mr. Shuster, who has a Ph.D. in management and economics, insists that he cares about the deficit as much as anyone. But he contends that it is only fair that transportation projects get full funding because billions of dollars in special gasoline and other taxes were pumped into "trust funds" designated for transportation projects. But those funds are running a large surplus and the extra money has been used to mask the true size of the Federal deficit.
Mr. Gingrich's refusal to accede to Mr. Shuster's wishes was somewhat surprising given that the Pennsylvanian was one of the Speaker's staunchest defenders during the attempt to topple him in July.
"He was forceful," Mr. Shuster said of a showdown he had with Mr. Gingrich last week. "He said, 'Dammit! You can't break the budget. I can't let you move this bill now.' "
"I said, 'Newt, America's crumbling!' " Mr. Shuster recalled.
Mr. Shuster said Mr. Gingrich never directly threatened his chairmanship. But senior Republicans who are familiar with the conversation said the Speaker left no doubt that he would have taken such a step.
In six months, when the House again takes up Mr. Shuster's giant road-building program, he may have more to worry about than Republican resistance. He is being investigated by a Federal grand jury in Boston in connection with the multimillion-dollar tunnel and road project there known as the "Big Dig." Investigators are said to be examining whether Mr. Shuster and his former longtime aide, Ann Eppard, used their influence to obtain favorable terms for two contributors whose property lay in the way of the project.
The Justice Department is also examining whether a tangle of legislative, financial, political and personal ties between Mr. Shuster and Ms. Eppard may violate laws prohibiting giving or receiving gratuities for official favors. After 22 years as his top aide, Ms. Eppard left Mr. Shuster's office to start a lobbying firm in 1994, and has since earned hundreds of thousands of dollars, often lobbying for the interests of the Congressman's contributors. Mr. Shuster refused to discuss the accusations.
But Mr. Shuster has a history of never backing down. A few years ago, Senator Bob Graham, a Democrat from Florida, described Mr. Shuster's transportation projects as "little piglets" that had grown into "giant hogs." In response, Mr. Shuster blocked 14 demonstration projects in Florida.
"I said, 'Wait a minute: If you're against projects, fine, we won't have any projects in Florida,' " Mr. Shuster recalled. He said Mr. Graham made amends and the projects were restored.
This year, Mr. Shuster has a warning for the fiscal conservatives who are squawking that his projects would wreck the budget agreement: It is only human nature that he would not be as inclined to fund projects in their districts.
"I'm not a saint,' he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Bud Shuster, head of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, is one of the most powerful figures on Capitol Hill. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ANGOLA (88%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); ANGOLA (88%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSPORTATION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (76%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (76%); ETHICS (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); APPROVALS (65%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (56%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; SHUSTER, BUD (REPR); GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER) NEWT GINGRICH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1997



484 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Urges Labor Unions Not to Punish Free-Trade Democrats in Congress

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH, Sept. 24

 BODY:
Aggressively defending his trade strategy before a skeptical labor audience, President Clinton urged the A.F.L.-C.I.O. today not to punish Congressional Democrats who vote to give him more freedom to negotiate trade deals.
Repeatedly stressing areas in which he had backed labor's goals, the President sought to create political cover for supporters of his "fast track" trade legislation, which sharply divides traditional Democratic allies and could cost some Democratic lawmakers the backing of unions in the 1998 elections. 
 Mr. Clinton, addressing the labor federation's national convention here, listed several pro-labor stands such Democrats had taken, like increasing the minimum wage and expanding health care.
"They have fought for you and for all working people," he said. "If they were to lose their positions because they stood up for what they believed was right for America's future, who would replace them?"
As he surveyed changing foreign markets and growing commercial ties among nations, Mr. Clinton declared that the stakes in the debate over the trade legislation were high. "The global economy is on a fast track," he said. "I believe leaving our trade relations on hold with the fastest-growing economies in the world will not create a single job in America."
The delegates' reception of Mr. Clinton was polite but not nearly so effusive as the one given Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the leading Democratic opponent of fast track, when he spoke here on Tuesday.
As Mr. Clinton began to discuss his trade policy today, a few delegates at the back of the convention hall started to chant, "No fast track!" But they quieted down as Mr. Clinton said he felt "passionately" about fast track and added sternly, "I think I've earned the right to be heard."
Mr. Clinton is seeking fast-track legislation to expand trade with Chile and other Latin American nations. Under the fast-track authority, which has been granted Presidents repeatedly for more than 20 years, he would have the power to negotiate trade deals that Congress could approve or reject but not amend. The Clinton Administration argues that no trading partner will negotiate an agreement if it fears that Congress will endlessly edit the fine print.
But the A.F.L.-C.I.O. worries that a trade agreement negotiated with fast-track authority would not sufficiently protect workers or the environment. The labor federation is conducting a $1 million advertising campaign against the trade legislation, which has broader support among Republicans than among Democrats.
Mr. Clinton couched his arguments in terms of fostering American jobs.
"We cannot create enough jobs and increase wages if we don't expand trade," he said.
But Ted Kirsch, the president of the Philadelphia Federation of Teachers, said that in seeking to change the delegates' minds on fast track, "he was trying to convert the, at this point, unconvertible."
After appearing at the labor convention, Mr. Clinton addressed a Democratic fund-raiser here. The party expected to raise $250,000 from the 80 guests.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CHILE (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: AFL-CIO (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH (PA); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CHILE (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TREATIES; FREE PORTS AND TRADING ZONES; LABOR ROLE IN POLITICS US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); JOB CREATION (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); TEACHER UNIONS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BENNET, JAMES BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1997



485 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: 3 Big Health Plans Join in Call for National Standards

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 24

 BODY:
Three big health maintenance organizations joined two consumer groups today in calling for more regulation of managed health care, saying all health plans should be subject to "legally enforceable national standards."
Such standards, they said, are essential to restore confidence in the health care system, which has been eroded by reports from many H.M.O. patients that they have had difficulty getting the care they need. 
 The proposals represent a significant development in the struggle over regulation of the health care industry. That struggle is comparable to the debate over regulation of railroads in the second half of the 19th century, and it is just as important for consumers, businesses and the economy. Until now, H.M.O.'s had generally sought voluntary, not government, standards.
Today's "statement of principles for consumer protection" was issued by three nonprofit H.M.O.'s: Kaiser Permanente, HIP Health Insurance Plans, based in New York, and the Group Health Cooperative of Puget Sound. Together, they have more than 10 million members.
The principles were worked out by the H.M.O.'s in a year of negotiations with two consumer groups, Families USA and the American Association of Retired Persons, which has more than 33 million members.
The proposed national standards would replace a crazy quilt pattern of regulation that now varies from state to state. The Federal Government has set basic standards for Medicare for the elderly and Medicaid for the poor. But states regulate private health plans and private insurers in radically different ways. Kaiser and HIP said it would be simpler to comply with national standards than with conflicting state regulations.
Daniel T. McGowan, president of the HIP Health Plan of New York, said: "We have failed to convince the public of our commitment to quality. That's the crisis we face today."
Anthony L. Watson, chairman of the parent company, HIP Health Insurance Plans, said that "we are more than willing to see laws enacted" to guarantee higher standards of care.
Kaiser, HIP and the Group Health Cooperative see themselves as having a deeper commitment to consumer protection than many commercial H.M.O.'s, but they say it is difficult to fulfill that commitment if they can be undercut by competitors not bound by the same standards.
Dr. David M. Lawrence, chairman of Kaiser Permanente, said that if the standards did not apply to all health plans "it would put us at a disadvantage competitively."
Kaiser Permanente, established in 1945, operates in 19 states. HIP, which does business in four states, and the Group Health Cooperative, which has customers in Washington State and Idaho, were formed in 1947.
Here are some of the proposed standards:
*Health plans should provide access to round-the-clock care seven days a week. Women should have direct access to obstetricians and gynecologists. Patients should be able to see outside doctors at no additional cost if their health plan does not have a doctor with "appropriate training and expertise."
*"Individuals should be given a choice of health plans."
*Health plans should be required to pay for emergency care in any situation that "a prudent lay person" would regard as an emergency. H.M.O.'s sometimes refuse to pay if, for example, chest pains are found to be a result of indigestion rather than a heart attack.
*Health plans should pay for experimental treatments if outside experts conclude that such services are necessary to treat a condition likely to cause the patient's death within two years. Likewise, when H.M.O.'s cover prescription drugs, they should be required to pay for items not on the list of approved medications if the items are necessary.
*Every H.M.O. should have an ombudsman to investigate patients' complaints and to help appeal the denial of coverage or services.
*Health plans should not pay doctors in any way that directly encourages them to limit medically necessary care.
Other H.M.O.'s were cool to the idea of more regulation. Susan M. Pisano, a spokeswoman for the American Association of Health Plans, which represents managed care companies, said, "Rather than micromanage, the Government should provide a framework in which the marketplace can play its proven role" in fostering innovation.
The authors of the new proposals said they had not yet decided how the standards should be enforced.
In a separate action, the General Accounting Office reported today that it had examined 1,150 contracts used by 529 H.M.O.'s and had not found any explicit "gag clauses" limiting what doctors can tell patients.
It found a number of contract provisions that doctors said could have a "chilling effect" on doctor-patient communications. But the General Accounting Office said that even those clauses were unlikely to alter doctors' behavior because doctors did not always read their contracts carefully and sometimes disregarded the restrictions.
The accounting office said that 38 states had passed laws to guarantee open communication between doctors and patients. Explicit gag clauses would violate such laws.In addition, the report said, many doctors fear that they will be sued for malpractice if they do not tell patients about all treatment options.
Senate Republican leaders cited the findings in arguing against heavy-handed regulation. Senator Don Nickles of Oklahoma, the assistant majority leader, said today, "This report provides a cautionary message about the Federal Government's typical knee-jerk reaction to a problem. We should not move forward pre-empting state law or regulatory authority on any issue without full consideration of sound science, thorough research and data."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (95%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: KAISER PERMANENTE; HIP HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS; GROUP HEALTH COOPERATIVE OF PUGET SOUND; FAMILIES USA; AMERICAN ASSN OF RETIRED PERSONS KAISER PERMANENTE (95%); GROUP HEALTH COOPERATIVE OF PUGET SOUND (83%); GROUP HEALTH COOP (52%); AARP INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: KAISER PERMANENTE; HIP HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS; GROUP HEALTH COOPERATIVE OF PUGET SOUND; FAMILIES USA; AMERICAN ASSN OF RETIRED PERSONS AARP INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; CONSUMER PROTECTION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (95%); CONSUMER LAW (91%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); FAMILY (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); INSURANCE (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (77%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (73%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (73%); MEDICAID (73%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION REGULATION & POLICY (73%); AGING (71%); PARENT COMPANIES (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (66%); QUILTS & QUILTING (65%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1997



486 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: House Approves 2.3% Raise For Lawmakers and Judges

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 24

 BODY:
Bucking a trend against rewarding themselves, the House of Representatives today voted for a 2.3 percent cost-of-living increase for members of Congress and Federal judges.
The vote, which came on a parliamentary procedure regarding the Treasury and Postal Service Appropriations bill, was 229 to 199 in favor of the pay increase. If the raise takes effect, it would be the first cost-of-living increase for lawmakers and the Federal judiciary since 1992. But the Senate is already on record as opposing the pay increase, so the differences will have to be worked out in a House-Senate conference. 
 With Republicans and Democrats split on the merits of the proposal, the final vote reflected the bipartisan nature of support and opposition. In the end, 114 Republicans and 115 Democrats voted in favor of the increase, while it was opposed by 110 Republicans, 88 Democrats and the lone independent.
"This is not so much a partisan issue as it is an institutional one," said Representative J. D. Hayworth, an Arizona Republican.
Mr. Hayworth was at the forefront of other junior Republicans who tried to block the increase, characterizing the vote as a referendum on the raise. But the action was in fact a procedural vote on appointing the team to negotiate with the Senate on the spending bill for the Treasury Department and the United States Postal Service.
Under a 1989 law, yearly cost-of-living increases for members of Congress are automatically granted unless legislation is passed to block it. That has been the case since 1992. But in the last year senior Republicans in the House, many of whom have children in college, have been clamoring for a pay increase.
Federal judges have also been seeking a raise. On Tuesday the Judicial Conference of the United States, the top policy-making body for the Federal courts, passed a resolution calling for the cost-of-living adjustment. A 2.3 percent increase would add about $3,000 to the annual salary of $133,600 for Federal judges and rank and file members of Congress.
The importance of the increase was signaled by the appearance of Speaker Newt Gingrich on the floor during the vote. Mr. Gingrich voted in favor of the raise, one of the few times he has voted on any measure during his tenure as Speaker.
Supporters of the increase were careful to portray it as a cost-of-living adjustment that would allow the lawmakers to keep pace with inflation. They also made the point that unless lawmakers' salaries kept pace, Congress would become the preserve of the wealthy and zealots who care nothing of money.
"We'll end up with what we are coming close to having today: a Congress of wackos and millionaires," said Representative Peter T. King, Republican of Long Island. At that point, Representative Gary L. Ackerman, Democrat of Queens, jumped up and shouted mirthfully, "You got me on both counts!"
Among other House members from the New York region, 6 from New Jersey, 25 from New York and none from Connecticut voted in favor of the raise. Seven members from New Jersey and five from New York voted against it. One of those who voted in opposition was Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat who is running for the Democratic nomination to challenge Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, Republican of New York.
At first, Mr. Schumer voted for the pay increase. But at the last minute, after tally boards showed that the measure had more than the 218 votes it needed to pass, he switched his vote and was recorded as opposing it.
After the vote, Mr. Schumer said he had arrived late on the floor and mistakenly voted for the increase not knowing what the issue was. When he realized what was the question on the floor, he said he then corrected his mistake and voted against the raise.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (54%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (54%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (77%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (77%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COURTS; JUDGES; WAGES AND SALARIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TRENDS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); JUDGES (90%); COST OF LIVING (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); REFERENDUMS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); POSTAL SERVICE (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (62%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A NEWT GINGRICH (58%); GARY L ACKERMAN (58%); PETER T KING (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1997



487 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Messinger Assails Plan On Hospitals

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

 BODY:
Signaling a new line of attack in her challenge to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, Ruth W. Messinger last night assailed the Mayor's efforts to sell the city's public hospitals to private health care companies, saying it would jeopardize the care of poor and immigrant New Yorkers who rely on the system.
"I believe that all people, regardless of income or background or immigrant status, deserve access to quality health care," Ms. Messinger said at a health forum in Brooklyn that was sponsored by a citizens' group. "I think that the health of the city depends on that reality. I have been a longtime opponent of privatization of municipal facilities." 
 Ms. Messinger's latest attacks on Mr. Giuliani came as the city's Campaign Finance Board awarded the Mayor's campaign $870,836 in public matching funds, lifting a monthlong sanction the board had imposed on the campaign for accepting more than $300,000 in illegal contributions.
The board fined the campaign $220,000 last week for accepting the donations, which the campaign has returned. The campaign has said it will pay the fine, allowing it to receive the matching funds, but it has also said it will probably appeal the sanction.
Last night, at the forum sponsored by the Commission on the Public's Health System in New York City, Ms. Messinger gave a preview of what her aides said would be a new phase of her campaign, attacking the administration's early efforts to pare down the city municipal health system. She was referring to Mr. Giuliani's attempts, rebuffed in court, to sell Coney Island Hospital to a private health care company.
Ms. Messinger appeared before an audience of 45 people at the Church of St. Ann and the Holy Trinity in Brooklyn Heights to describe what she said were the Mayor's flawed health care policies.
Aides to Ms. Messinger said her proposals on public health and her criticism of Mr. Giuliani's record would assume a prominent place in her campaign, along with attacks on Mr. Giuliani's education and unemployment record. "Before the end of this campaign, I will be giving a major address on health care and public health," Ms. Messinger said.
Ms. Messinger cut her remarks short because she had to attend a black-tie banquet, and did not offer many details on her own health care proposals. However, she criticized Mr. Giuliani for what she described as weak-hearted lobbying in Albany and Washington on behalf of the city for health care financing.
"I think we're under the gun, but I don't think we are doing what we need to do to negotiate with Albany and Washington," she said.
Ms. Messinger pledged to direct more of the city's tax dollars to public health care. She also said the city should do more to make modern treatments available to poor people suffering from AIDS or H.I.V., and she called for the city to promote clean-needle exchanges for drug addicts.
The decision by the Campaign Finance Board to grant the Mayor's campaign matching funds appears to bring at least a temporary end to a politically uncomfortable situation for Mr. Giuliani: the former prosecutor had found his campaign financing practices under scrutiny.
The finance board made its decision at the first full meeting of the board attended by the Mayor's latest appointee, Joseph R. Erazo.
Mr. Erazo's sudden and unexpected appearance at a meeting last week, when the board first discussed fining the Giuliani campaign, prompted some advocacy groups to accuse the Mayor of trying to stack the board so he could avoid the fine. The groups have called for Mr. Erazo to step down, but he said yesterday after the meeting that he would not, though he declined to comment further on the circumstances surrounding his appointment.
Meanwhile, in an unwelcome development for Ms. Messinger, the board of directors of the Political Action Committee of the National Abortion and Reproductive Rights Action League voted not to endorse either candidate this year. Mr. Giuliani opposed abortion rights before he entered public life, but has since changed his position. Ms. Messinger has long been an advocate of abortion rights.
But the league said it had weighed the candidates' current positions in deciding not to enter the race. "We are fortunate to live in a city where both major-party candidates, one a Republican and one a Democrat, have demonstrated a commitment to women's freedom to choose," said Kelli Conlin, executive director of the group.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Democratic supporters of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani turned out for a rally at City Hall Park yesterday. On the same day, the Mayor's campaign received $870,836 in public money when a monthlong sanction was lifted. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times); A woman running to a subway train managed to give a quick handshake to Ruth W. Messinger, who was campaigning in Brooklyn yesterday. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CAMPAIGN FINANCE BOARD (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: CAMPAIGN FINANCE BOARD (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HOSPITALS; ELECTION ISSUES; FINANCES; ETHICS CAMPAIGN FINANCE (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MAYORS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); FUNDRAISING (88%); FINES & PENALTIES (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (74%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (72%); ETHICS (67%); 

PERSON: HERSZENHORN, DAVID M; MESSINGER, RUTH W (BORO PRES); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1997



488 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1516 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-17
 
Netanyahu Plans to Expand Settlements in West Bank
Vowing that the Jewish presence in the West Bank would continue to grow, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu promised to build 300 new housing units for settlers. A1 

Smog Blankets Southeast Asia
Smoke wafting from forest fires in Sumatra and Borneo has choked much of Southeast Asia with a hazy smog that has disrupted transport, schools and the respiratory comfort of millions of people. A1
 
Burmese Strongman Reappears
U Ne Win and a military entourage from Myanmar arrived in Jakarta for a personal visit at the invitation of President Suharto of Indonesia. Mr. Ne Win has rarely been seen since 1989, the year after he stepped down from 26 years of one-man rule during which he managed to isolate and impoverish the country formerly known as Burma. A14
 
Russia Oligarchs Put on Notice
Alleging that powerful business interests were jeopardizing Russia's economy, President Boris Yeltsin said the state's role in the economy would have to increase in order to insure free competition. His remarks were largely aimed at the financial oligarchs who helped bankroll his re-election, but whose business empires have flourished and who some suspect of corruption. A3
 
Call for Peace Surprises Algeria
The commander of Algeria's Army of Islamic Salvation, the military wing of the main opposition party, ordered a unilateral cease-fire and called for a truce in the country's civil war. Tens of thousands of lives have been lost in grisly combat in the six years since the Islamic Salvation Front's electoral success led the army to cancel voting. Analysts believed the move could signal a coming detente, but several recent massacres suggested that some guerrilla factions had moved far beyond the front's control. A8
 
Britain Protests Saudi Trial
Two British nurses charged with murdering an Australian colleague in Saudi Arabia lost their first appeal in a religious court there, leading to consternation in Britain about their sentences. One may be beheaded, and the other imprisoned for eight years after 500 lashes. The British Government has protested both the sentences and the way the trial was conducted, while senior Saudi officials insisted that they would not apply different standards of justice to Western expatriates. A8
 
F.B.I. Adds Mexican to List
United States officials added a 33-year-old cocaine smuggler to the F.B.I.'s most-wanted list, offering more than $2 million for information leading to the arrest of a man they described as the most ruthless drug trafficker in Mexico. Even so, they were skeptical that Mexico would extradite Ramon Arellano Felix, the leader of a Tijuana-based organization, who has been indicted by a Federal grand jury on charges of drug smuggling and conspiracy. A16
 
NATIONAL A18-29
 
Health Industry Seeks National H.M.O. Standards
Three big health maintenance organizations joined two consumer groups in calling for more Government regulation of managed health care, saying that all health plans should be subject to "legally enforceable national standards." A28
 
College Tuition Climbs Again
The cost of a college education rose by 5 percent this year, which administrators described as proof that they were bringing costs down from the upward spiral in the 1980's. But critics noted the rate of growth was still twice that of inflation and three times that of the growth of the average family income. A18
 
F.D.A. Gets New Authority
The Senate overwhelmingly passed a bill that would enable the Food and Drug Administration to speed the availability of drugs and medical devices while giving manufacturers greater authority in reviewing and promoting their products. A29
 
Maverick in Governor's Race
Alfred A. Checchi, a wealthy businessman, has officially declared himself a candidate to become the next Governor of California. Mr. Checchi, a 49-year-old Democrat, who announced his candidacy on Tuesday in Sacramento, has never run for elective office. But he has a personal fortune estimated at $550 million, and he is apparently not shy about spending a good chunk of it in his political pursuits. A18
 
ABC to Revise Kennedy Report
ABC has decided to revise a planned documentary about President John F. Kennedy, saying documents the report was relying on to prove that the President made a deal with Marilyn Monroe to guarantee her silence on their long-rumored sexual affair were fakes. A26
 
Debate Seen on Campaign Laws
A day after Senate leaders agreed to debate campaign-finance legislation this fall, the House majority leader said that the House would also consider a similar bill this year. The lawmaker, Representative Dick Armey of Texas, said the timing and the substance of the House bill were still undecided. A24
 
House Approves Pay Raise
The House voted for a 2.3 percent cost-of-living increase for members of Congress and Federal judges. A28
 
Clinton Makes Plea to Labor
Aggressively defending his trade strategy before a skeptical labor audience, President Clinton urged the A.F.L.-C.I.O. not to punish Congressional Democrats who vote to give him more freedom to negotiate trade deals. A28
 
Predictor for Obesity Cited
A study has found that among children under the age of 10, having an overweight parent roughly doubled the child's risk of becoming a heavy adult, even if the youngster was normal in size. A20
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
Missing Millionaire Found Slain Along Hudson River
The week-long hunt for Nelson G. Gross, a New Jersey millionaire and once-prominent Republican official, ended along the upper Manhattan banks of the Hudson River, where investigators say three Manhattan youths tossed his body after repeatedly stabbing him in a fatal conclusion to a $20,000 robbery. A1
 
City Blocks Rail Funding
The Giuliani administration has a new weapon in its battle with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey over control of the city's airports: holding up $23 billion in Federal funding for transportation projects in order to block the Port Authority's plan to build a train connection to Kennedy International Airport. B1
 
HOUSE & HOME F1-20
 
ARTS E1-10
 
F.B.I. Opens Lennon's File
The Federal Bureau of Investigation has released a new cache of material from a 300-page dossier on the late rock star John Lennon, and has agreed to pay $204,000 to cover legal fees incurred by a California history professor in his 14-year legal battle to open the file. E1
 
Thursday Night Live for 'E.R.'
In a move that NBC calls unprecedented for a continuing dramatic series, "E.R," one of television's top-rated shows, with an audience of about 35 million, will begin its fourth season tonight with a live hourlong episode. Even more unusual, the actors on the hospital series will perform the show twice: first for viewers on the East Coast and then for those on the West. E3
 
EDITORIAL A30-31
 
Editorials: Still no exit strategy on Bosnia; Mr. Clinton's blow for reform; Serpico redux.
 
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Bob Herbert.
 
OBITUARIES B7
 
George L. Hinman
A longtime political adviser to Nelson A. Rockefeller who was also a Republican National Committeeman for two decades, he was 91. B7
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-23
 
Travelers to Buy Salomon
The Travelers Group, a sprawling ensemble of insurance, stockbroking and mutual fund businesses gathered under the company's trademark umbrella, announced it would acquire Salomon Inc., Wall Street's legendary bond trading and investment banking firm, for over $9 billion in stock. The acquisition, which will be combined with Travelers' investment bank to form Salomon Smith Barney Holdings Inc., is a bold attempt by Sanford I. Weill, Travelers' chairman, to climb to the very top of Wall Street. A1
 
Even after a record-breaking year of mergers and acquisitions in the securities industry, the Travelers Group announcement rattled Wall Street and reverberated into the offices of the largest banks in the country. D1
 
Executive Makes Pay Pledge
William Joyce, the chief executive of Union Carbide, said he would give back his base salary in the year 2000 if the company failed to earn $4 a share that year. The financial impact on Mr. Joyce would be no different from other pay-for-performance plans, in which an executive who fails to reach a target loses an opportunity to make extra money. D1
 
Pepsico Names New Executive
Pepsico named Philip A. Marineau, the former Quaker Oats executive who won praise for the success of Gatorade and blame for the decline of Snapple, to replace Brenda Barnes, who resigned as president and chief executive of Pepsi-Cola North America, the company's largest beverage division. D1
 
Business Digest D1
 
SPORTS C1-8
 
Bridge E6
 
Crossword E10
 
Chronicle B12
 
Weather B8

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (94%); ASIA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ALGERIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); BORNEO (90%); AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: SUMATRA, INDONESIA (92%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (72%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA (94%); ASIA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ALGERIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); BORNEO (90%); AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SUMATRA, INDONESIA (92%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (72%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); SMOG (90%); ARMIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); RELIGION (89%); EXTRADITION (87%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (87%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (86%); SMUGGLING (85%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (85%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (84%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CORRUPTION (73%); MURDER (73%); INDICTMENTS (73%); FOREST FIRES (72%); FIRES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); CONSPIRACY (71%); CIVIL WAR (70%); ARRESTS (68%); SENTENCING (67%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (63%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (63%); GRAND JURY (62%); COCAINE (60%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1997



489 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 137 words

HEADLINE: 'Clean Money' Politics Keeps Fat Cats at Bay

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Despite allegations of fund-raising abuses (editorial, Sept. 22), President Clinton's approval ratings remain high, and he and Vice President Gore strike an attitude of indifference. So long as the economy is good, the people don't seem to care. 
 It reminds me of Edward Gibbon's description of the fall of the Roman Empire, starting with Septimius Severus in A.D. 195. Gibbon wrote that "the contemporaries of Severus, in the enjoyment of the peace and glory of his reign, forgave the cruelties by which it had been introduced. Posterity justly considered Severus as the principal author of the decline of Rome." If we citizens accept anything and anyone that keeps us peaceful and prosperous, we deserve no more than the Romans got.
 
DOUGLAS L. PRISCO
Roslyn, N.Y., Sept. 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ROME, ITALY (51%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; FINANCES; ETHICS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); WRITERS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ETHICS (73%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PRISCO, DOUGLAS L AL GORE (88%); BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1997



490 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: College Tuitions Climb 5 Percent, Survey Finds

BYLINE: By ETHAN BRONNER 

 BODY:
The cost of a college education rose by 5 percent this year, which administrators described as proof that they were bringing costs down from the spiral upward in the 1980's. But critics noted that the rate was still twice that of inflation and three times that of the growth of the average family income.
The College Board, which released its annual survey yesterday, said that the rate of growth for 1997-98 tuition and fees at public and private four-year colleges was unchanged from last year. 
 Donald M. Stewart, the president of the College Board, said that "for most Americans, college is still accessible -- especially in the light of financial aid currently available." He urged students and parents to "keep college costs in perspective," adding that a majority of students at four-year institutions pay less than $4,000 per year.
The report showed that students at four-year private institutions were paying an average tuition of $13,664, and at four-year public institutions, $3,111. Tuition at two-year colleges increased 4 percent at private institutions, to $6,613 a year, and 2 percent at public institutions, to $1,501.
The National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities used the survey's release to point out that the rate of growth in the cost of attending private institutions has declined or remained steady for the past decade.
But a number of economists and others who study the cost of higher education contended that a comparison with the inflation rate -- under 2.5 percent last year -- was more meaningful.
They said that the gap between inflation and tuition increases reflected the growing value of a college degree in the United States.
"Essentially, colleges can get away with it," said Gary Burtless, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington, who studies the cost of higher education. "The value of a college diploma has gone up tremendously in the last 20 years, more than the relative cost of the diploma."
Daniel S. Hamermesh, an economics professor at the University of Texas at Austin, said it was "like any other supply-and-demand situation -- there is little incentive to cut costs." Enrollment has been increasing on both coasts.
Data from the association of independent colleges support this view, in part: a wage earner with a high school diploma earns an average of $880,000 over a lifetime. With a bachelor's degree, the worker makes a $1.4 million, and with a master's, $1.6 million. A graduate with a law degree or a Ph.D. takes in $2.1 million.
Daniel Cheever, president of Simmons College in Boston, said he was pleased to see institutions moderate tuition rates but disturbed that the cost had increased at a rate higher than inflation or the growth in average family income, which is estimated at 1 percent to 2 percent.
"We've slipped back from the goal of making college affordable to nearly every family," Mr. Cheever contended.
Asked if the rate of increase reflected the growing value of a college degree, Mr. Cheever responded: "Just because you can do it doesn't mean you should do it. The market is bearing it today because students and their families are borrowing.
"Payback time will come in the next decade," he said, "and we don't know yet whether the market can bear it because we don't know how the debts will affect those graduates who may not be able to buy houses or go into their field of choice or save for their children's education because of their debts."
David L. Warren, president of the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities, said many of the 900 institutions he represents have faced steep costs to computerize their campuses and increase the technical level of their laboratories.
The College Board's report said that student financial aid was at a record high of $55 billion, an increase of 5.4 percent over last year after adjusting for inflation. It added, however, that most of the increase was in the form of loans rather than grants, and most of the increased borrowing was not subsidized.
"Headlines that scream about the inflation of tuition and fees only serve to inflate the fears of American families," Mr. Stewart of the College Board said. "The United States continues to extend higher education opportunities to a larger percent of the population than any country."
Mr. Warren of the association of independent colleges said he expected that by 2002, the rate of increase in college tuition would be in line with the rate of inflation.
"There is a lot of restructuring and downsizing going on" to keep tuition costs down, he said. "Colleges are making tough calls on which programs to keep."
The cost of higher education has come under growing scrutiny because of a perception that it has gotten out of hand in recent years.
Charles Clotfelter, professor of public policy at Duke University, wrote "Buying the Best: Cost Escalation in Elite Higher Education" (Princeton University Press, 1996).
He summed up his findings by quoting the economist Howard Bowen, who said that "each institution raises all the money it can" and "spends all it raises." Professor Clotfelter said that the "almost boundless desire to be excellent" at such universities creates "a bottomless demand for more money."
Professor Clotfelter also contended that the growth in financial aid offered by the institutions in recent years was not entirely altruistic, because it helped the colleges defend themselves against charges that the best education was available only to the rich.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 1, 1997, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Wednesday about increases in tuition omitted the effects of inflation in comparing college expenses with family income. Considering inflation, the real increase in tuition is expected to average 2.5 percent in 1997-1998, contrasted with an estimated 1.7 percent average increase in family income. The tuition increase is not expected to be three times as high as family income.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "DOLLARS AND CENTS: College Costs"
Tuition is increasing at twice the rate of inflation, driving the total cost of college to record levels. Graph shows the averagge cost of a year in college, in thousands of 1996 dollars, from 1987 to 1996, for private four-year, private two-year and public four-year schools. (Source: The College Board's Trend in Student Aid Report)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: COLLEGE BOARD NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SECURITIES DEALERS INC (55%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (91%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF INDEPENDENT COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLLEGE BOARD THE COLLEGE BOARD (91%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF INDEPENDENT COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); TUITION; FINANCES TUITION FEES (93%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); FAMILY (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (71%); 

PERSON: BRONNER, ETHAN; STEWART, DONALD M

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1997



491 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: A WALL STREET BEHEMOTH: THE STRATEGIST;
A Deal Maker's Dream Deal

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON

 BODY:
Sanford I. Weill can hardly contain himself.
At a time when most of his onetime peers on Wall Street have burned out -- or been booted out -- Mr. Weill, who is 64, has just scored a coup for Travelers Group, the company he built from other people's castoffs. He has bought Salomon Brothers, a firm known as the biggest, baddest bond trader on the Street, and maybe on the planet. 
 And Mr. Weill, who a decade ago was written off as a has-been, is clearly filled with glee. "He's having the time of his life," said James Dimon, his second-in-command for 15 years and the chief executive of Smith Barney, the Travelers brokerage firm.
Mr. Weill is grinning even as he takes on a challenge that has brought other Wall Street powerhouses to grief -- building a financial services firm that can do everything, everywhere, from advising China on billion-dollar deals to selling mutual funds to amateur investors in Cincinnati. And he is doing it by trying to swallow a firm with a troubled past and a high-testosterone culture that has resisted even Warren Buffett's efforts to tame it.
The Salomon deal is the culmination of a lifelong dream, he said, to build what he calls " a great financial services company without parallel." And if that means coping with the outsized egos -- and salaries -- that characterize Salomon, well, "I have experience with diverse cultures, and getting people to work together," he said.
The comment came in an interview in Mr. Weill's office on the 39th floor of the Travelers offices in TriBeCa in lower Manhattan, a building that towers over old factories and new apartment buildings. Filled with mementos -- photos and sculptures and signs, as well as a brass plaque engraved "Professional Busybody" -- his office hints at Mr. Weill's desire to be of Wall Street, and more than Wall Street. In fact, he has his back to the street that runs from Trinity Church past the New York Stock Exchange; the view is to the north, a glamorous panorama of midtown Manhattan. In the course of an hour's conversation, Mr. Weill boasted both of his years of experience and how he has "been out of just Wall Street" since 1981.
From his desk, Mr. Weill can also watch the computer screens that flash the price of his company's stock, which he noted ruefully yesterday was dropping. ("We're going broke," he joked.) The shares closed down $2.625, at $69.44.
And above the couch with its slightly worn leather is another view, of the house he grew up in, in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn. From an early age, he was aggressive and energetic. "He was a member of the Junior Davis Cup Team, and he's been playing aggressive ball ever since," said A. Michael Lipper, president of Lipper Analytical Services, who has known Mr. Weill for decades.
At the age of 27, after just five years as a stockbroker, Mr. Weill opened his own firm with some friends, who used every penny they had to buy a seat on the stock exchange, said Roger Berlind, now a Broadway producer. "We started out working around the clock," Mr. Berlind said, "and Sandy's still doing that from everything I hear."
Through the stock market boom of the 1960's and the protracted market bust of the 1970's, Mr. Weill began buying other brokerage firms, assembling the huge network of stockbrokers that became Shearson Loeb Rhodes. He was famous for negotiating hard bargains and for inspiring the troops while slashing costs.
But in 1981, he made a deal that would lead to disaster for him. He sold Shearson to the American Express Company, the credit card giant. He had hoped, he says now, to "go beyond Wall Street to build a great American institution." But he and James D. Robinson 3d, the chairman of American Express, could not work out their differences; in 1985, Mr. Weill became unemployed.
But he was not alone; he took his assistant, the very young Mr. Dimon, known as Jamie, now 41. Despite a reputation for ruthlessness, Mr. Weill is well known for his loyalty and surrounds himself with old associates from Shearson and elsewhere. Admirers point out that he remains married to the woman he wed right out of college, Joan Mosher Weill, and that his son Marc works for Travelers. Deryck C. Maughan, the chairman of Salomon Brothers, is a friend of almost 10 years whom Mr. Weill persuaded to join the board of his pet charity, Carnegie Hall.
Indeed, in the midst of all the long phone calls and secret meetings in hotel rooms that characterize a big merger, Mr. Weill found time to place a condolence notice in the newspaper on Wednesday for William P. Overman, a money manager, "one of our first and most loyal investors," expressing gratitude not only for his friendship, but for "his lessons on the significance of free cash flow."
Making the numbers work has always been the key to Mr. Weill's success. In 1986, after a frustrated effort to buy Bank of America, he recognized the value of a troubled concern called Commercial Credit, a consumer-loan company that belonged to Control Data. In November of that year, Control Data sold most of Commercial Credit to the public and Mr. Weill took the reins; a year later, he bought the rest of the firm.
A spate of sales followed, along with some important acquisitions. In 1988, Mr. Weill bought Primerica, the parent of Smith Barney, which had been bleeding red ink in the wake of the stock market crash of 1987. The next year, he snapped up the small network of retail brokerage outlets that had belonged to Drexel Burnham Lambert, the junk-bond house under pressure from regulators.
In 1992, he began to buy Travelers, which had been plagued by bad real estate investments, and in 1993, he bought his old baby, Shearson, from American Express for $1.2 billion, which was considered a bargain.
Part of Shearson's problems stemmed from its efforts to move beyond just selling stocks to individuals -- what Wall Street calls "retail" -- and move into the riskier but sometimes more profitable business of investment banking by buying Lehman Brothers. It did not work.
Mr. Weill has had problems of his own trying to make the same transition. In 1993, he hired Robert Greenhill, a rainmaker from Morgan Stanley, and a coterie of investment bankers. Mr. Greenhill, who did not return a telephone call yesterday, left Smith Barney in 1996 to start his own investment-banking boutique.
Buying Salomon is an effort to beef up Smith Barney's investment banking business once and for all and to establish a global presence for a firm that is little known outside of the United States. In some ways, the purchase is vintage Weill. Tarred with a trading scandal several years ago and the defections of some important bond traders, Salomon has been searching for a buyer and comes relatively cheap, or so Mr. Weill thinks. Compared with others occurring on Wall Street, he said, "This is not a crazy deal."
In other ways, it represents a departure for Mr. Weill. "The driving force here is not cutting costs," he said. "It really is growth, and the entree into new markets."
Though he radiates confidence now, it wasn't that way a week ago. "When he gets close to a deal, he gets very, very nervous," said his friend and colleague of many years, Jeffrey B. Lane, the vice chairman of Travelers. "His strength is his insecurity."
And yet the deal may reflect a change in Mr. Weill himself, a change that his daughter, Jessica Bibliowicz, said she had noticed in the last few years. Ms. Bibliowicz, who is now the president and chief operating officer of John A. Levin & Company, worked at Smith Barney for four years.
"He's become much more of a long-term thinker," she said. After years of focusing on cutting costs, she explained, "he's focused on growth of the company, on increasing market share in every business; something doesn't have to be down and out for him to take it on now."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stanford I. Weill, chairman and chief executive of Travelers Group, in his Manhattan office yesterday. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "A Traveling Man"
Here are the milestones
along Sanford I. Weill's
Wall Street journey.
 
First job: Messenger at
BEAR, STEARNS
 
1960: Co-founded
CARTER, BERLIND, POTOMA & WEILL,
which became
CBWL-HAYDEN, STONE (1970),
HAYDEN STONE (1972),
SHEARSON HAYDEN STONE (1974),
SHEARSON LOEB RHOADES (1979),
was bought by the American Express Company in 1981.
 
1983-85: President of
AMERICAN EXPRESS
 
1984-85: Chief executive of its subsidiary,
FIREMAN'S FUND INSURANCE
 
1986: Chief executive of the
COMMERCIAL CREDIT COMPANY,
which bought and became in 1988 the
PRIMERICA CORPORATION
which acquired the
TRAVELERS CORPORATION in 1993 and became
TRAVELERS GROUP.
 
(Source: Company report; Who's Who in Finance and Industry)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); MUTUAL FUNDS (67%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (62%); EXECUTIVES (54%); 

PERSON: SANDY WEILL (93%); JAMES DIMON (54%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1998



492 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1997

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 43; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 5121 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times

 BODY:

ATTRACTIONS
Museums and Sites
 
ABIGAIL ADAMS SMITH MUSEUM, 421 East 61st Street, Manhattan. Built in 1799 as the carriage house for the planned estate of Abigail Adams and Col. William Smith, the structure also served as the Mount Vernon Hotel from 1826 to 1833. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 A.M. to 4 P.M.; closed Mondays and holidays. Admission: $3; students and the elderly, $2; 12 and under, free. "The Designers' Fare," an annual benefit to raise money for the museum's continuing restoration, runs through Sunday; the museum will remain open until 4:45 P.M. during the benefit. Thirteen interior designers have created period looks in some rooms and in the auditorium and gardens. Benefit admission: $10. Information: (212) 838-6878.
 
ALICE AUSTEN HOUSE, 2 Hylan Boulevard, Rosebank, Staten Island. This 17th-century farmhouse, converted in the 19th century to a Victorian cottage, was the home of the photographer Alice Austen. On view indefinitely is the photographer's parlor, filled with period furniture, and the exhibition "Traveling With Alice Austen," a collection of travel photographs. Hours: Thursdays through Sundays, noon to 5 P.M. Suggested admission: $3; students, children and the elderly, $1. Information: (718) 816-4506. 

AMERICAN ACADEMY OF ARTS AND LETTERS, Audubon Terrace, Broadway at 155th Street, upper Manhattan. A new gallery opens on Sunday featuring paintings, prints and drawings by Childe Hassam. Tours will be conducted throughout the building between 11 A.M. and 5 P.M.; tours in Spanish are offered at 12:30 and 2:30 P.M. Gallery exhibition and tours for one day only. The academy is among 10 cultural institutions in upper Manhattan that are participating in the annual "Uptown Treasures" event on Sunday; a free shuttle bus will provide transportation among institutions. The first bus leaves at 10:30 A.M. from Columbus Circle; information, (212) 342-7077. Free. Information: (212) 368-5900.
 
AMERICAN MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE, 35th Avenue at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens. On permanent display are costumes, set pieces, filming equipment and other items relating to film, television and video. Special exhibitions include "Behind the Screen," a permanent display with more than 1,000 artifacts that illustrate the production, marketing and exhibition of moving images, and "Late Show With David Letterman," which presents the original set for the program, along with designs, drawings and props. Daily screenings include classic shorts, shown in Tut's Fever Movie Palace. A retrospective of the director Jim Jarmusch's films is to continue tomorrow, with "Mystery Train" (1989) and "It's All Right with Me" (1990) at 2 P.M., and on Sunday, with "Night on Earth" (1992) at 2 P.M. Museum hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, noon to 5 P.M.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. All activities are free with museum admission: $8; the elderly and students, $5; ages 5 to 18, $4. Information: (718) 784-0077.
 
AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY, Central Park West at 79th Street. Special exhibitions include "The Lost World: The Life and Death of Dinosaurs," through Tuesday, and "Dzanga-Ndoki Rain Forest: The Making of an Exhibition," through next Sunday. There are also permanent displays and two IMAX films: "Survival Island" and "Cosmic Voyage." Museum hours: Sundays through Thursdays, 10 A.M. to 5:45 P.M.; Fridays and Saturdays, 10 A.M. to 8:45 P.M. Suggested admission: $8; students and the elderly, $6; children 12 and under, $4.50. A combination ticket including museum admission and one film: $12; students and the elderly, $8.50; children 12 and under, $6.50; under 2, free. Information: (212) 769-5100; to buy tickets by phone: (212) 769-5200.
 
AMERICAN NUMISMATIC SOCIETY, Audubon Terrace, Broadway at 155th Street, Washington Heights. The society has the most extensive coin collection in North America; its library is open to the public. On permanent display is "American Numismatic Design, 1892-1922," which includes all coins issued during this period. Also on view is "The World of Coins," a history from 600 B.C. to the present. The society is among 10 cultural institutions in upper Manhattan that are participating in the fifth "Uptown Treasures" event on Sunday; a free shuttle bus will provide transportation among the institutions. The first bus leaves at 10:30 A.M. from Columbus Circle; bus information, (212) 342-7077. On Sunday at 1, 2 and 3 P.M., children 10 and older can strike a copy of an ancient Greek coin. Free. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 9 A.M. to 4:30 P.M.; Sundays, 1 to 4 P.M. Information: (212) 234-3130.
 
CZECH CENTER NEW YORK, 1109 Madison Avenue, at 83d Street. The center has an exhibition on the composer Antonin Dvorak that includes photographs, letter facsimiles, musical scores and contemporary documents through Nov. 21. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 9 A.M. to 5 P.M. Free. Information: (212) 288-0830.
 
DYCKMAN FARMHOUSE MUSEUM, 4881 Broadway, at 204th Street, Inwood. The last 18th-century Dutch Colonial farmhouse in Manhattan, with period rooms and antiques. The museum is among 10 cultural institutions in upper Manhattan that are participating in the fifth "Uptown Treasures" event on Sunday; a free shuttle bus will provide transportation among the institutions. The first bus leaves at 10:30 A.M. from Columbus Circle; information, (212) 342-7077. On Sunday, walking tours and demonstrations of colonial crafts will be offered as part of "Uptown Treasures." Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 A.M. to 4 P.M. Donations accepted. Information: (212) 304-9422.
 
FEDERAL HALL NATIONAL MEMORIAL, 26 Wall Street, lower Manhattan. The site of George Washington's inauguration and the drafting of the Bill of Rights. The railing from the first Capitol building, which was built on the site and demolished in 1812, is on view. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 9 A.M. to 5 P.M. Free. Information: (212) 825-6888.
 
HAMILTON GRANGE NATIONAL MEMORIAL, 287 Convent Avenue, between 141st and 142d Streets, Hamilton Heights. Home of Alexander Hamilton, the first Secretary of the Treasury and co-author of the Federalist Papers. Colonial furnishings and Hamilton's belongings are on view. Hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, 9 A.M. to 5 P.M. Free. Information: (212) 283-5154.
 
HISPANIC SOCIETY OF AMERICA, Audubon Terrace, Broadway at 155th Street, Washington Heights. A museum dedicated to Hispanic culture, with fine and decorative arts of the Iberian peninsula, from prehistory to the present. Current exhibitions include "Spain/ America, Circa 1840-1920: Small Oils by American and Spanish Artists"; "Spanish Paintings, 1860-1930," and "Portraits of the Spanish Generation of '98." Through Dec. 27. The society is among 10 cultural institutions in upper Manhattan that are participating in the "Uptown Treasures" event on Sunday; a free shuttle bus will provide transportation among institutions. The first bus leaves at 10:30 A.M. from Columbus Circle; information, (212) 342-7077. On Sunday, as part of "Uptown Treasures," the Society will feature special viewings of some of its galleries and traditional Spanish music. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 A.M. to 4:30 P.M.; Sundays, 1 to 4 P.M.; closed holidays. Free. Information: (212) 926-2234.
 
HISTORIC RICHMONDTOWN, Staten Island Historical Society, 441 Clarke Avenue, Richmondtown. About 27 buildings from the late 1600's to the 19th century, many restored and furnished. Hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, 1 to 5 P.M.; closed most holidays. Admission: $4; the elderly and ages 6 to 18, $2.50; 5 and under, free. Information: (718) 351-1611.
 
INTREPID SEA-AIR-SPACE MUSEUM, Pier 86, West 46th Street at the Hudson River, Clinton. A converted World War II aircraft carrier featuring two full decks of displays, including four theme halls: "United States Navy Hall"; "Pioneer Hall"; "Technologies Hall," and "Intrepid Hall." Also on view is a 1950's French naval fighter jet, the Etendard IV-M, given to the museum by the French Government. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 A.M. to 6 P.M., through Sept. 30. Beginning Oct. 1: Wednesdays through Sundays, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M.; closed Mondays and Tuesdays. Admission: $10; the elderly, veterans, reservists and ages 12 to 17, $7.50; ages 6 to 11, $5; 5 and under, $1. Information: (212) 245-0072.
 
MORRIS-JUMEL MANSION MUSEUM, Edgecombe Avenue at 160th Street, upper Manhattan. An 18th-century mansion furnished in the traditional manner. The museum is among 10 cultural institutions in upper Manhattan participating in the fifth "Uptown Treasures" event on Sunday; a free shuttle bus will provide transportation among institutions. The first bus leaves at 10:30 A.M. from Columbus Circle; bus information, (212) 342-7077. On Sunday, the museum will conduct tours of its Colonial herb garden and offer herbal tea tastings as well as a workshop for children on making scented sachets. Admission: $3; $2 for students, the elderly and children 12 and older; free for children under 12. This Sunday, admission is free for everyone. Hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, 10 A.M. to 4 P.M.; until 5 P.M. this Sunday. Information: (212) 923-8008.
 
MUSEUM OF CHINESE IN THE AMERICAS, 70 Mulberry Street, Chinatown. On permanent display is "Where is Home: Chinese in the Americas," a collection of photographs and other artifacts; "Fly to Freedom: The Art of the Golden Venture Refugees," and "Family Portraits," photographs of the people of Chinatown by students from the Fashion Institute of Technology. Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays and Saturdays, noon to 5 P.M.; closed on Sundays, Mondays and holidays. Admission: $3; the elderly and students, $1; 12 and under and museum members, free. Information: (212) 619-4785.
 
THE MUSEUM OF JEWISH HERITAGE: A LIVING MEMORIAL TO THE HOLOCAUST, 18 First Place (West Street and Battery Place), Battery Park City, lower Manhattan. Artifacts, documents, videotapes and film clips are included in exhibitions on the Holocaust and on Jewish life before and after World War II. Hours: Sundays through Wednesdays, 9 A.M. to 5 P.M.; Thursdays, 9 A.M. to 8 P.M.; Fridays and the eves of Jewish holidays, 9 A.M. to 2 P.M.; closed on Saturdays and Jewish holidays. Admission: $7; students and the elderly, $5; 5 and under, free. A limited number of same-day tickets are available at the museum; because of the current crowds, tickets should be purchased in advance through Ticketmaster: (212) 307-4007. Information: (212) 968-1800.
 
MUSEUM OF TELEVISION AND RADIO, 25 West 52d Street, Manhattan. A collection of taped historic radio and television broadcasts, as well as exhibitions of other media, including drawings, posters and photographs. Current screening series include "The Rat Pack Captured," through Tuesday, and "Murder in the Living Room: Hitchcock by Hitchcock," through Sunday. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 P.M.; Thursdays, noon to 8 P.M.; closed Mondays and holidays. Admission: $6; students and the elderly, $4; 12 and under, $3. Information: (212) 621-6800.
 
NEW YORK TRANSIT MUSEUM, Boerum Place and Schermerhorn Street, downtown Brooklyn. Current exhibitions include "Building to Last: The Restoration of Grand Central"; "Steel, Stone and Backbone," a display that traces the construction of the subway system from 1900 to 1925 through photographs, construction tools, films and other objects; "Ceramic Ornamentation," a look at the mosaics, tiles and terra cottas used to adorn subway stations from 1904 to the present, and "From Here to There," an exhibition of more than 100 subway signs. Also on view are 19 fully restored subway cars from 1903 to 1960. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 A.M. to 4 P.M.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 P.M.; closed Mondays and holidays. Admission: $3; the elderly and ages 6 to 17, $1.50; 5 and under, free. Information: (718) 243-3060 or (718) 243-8601.
 
SOUTH STREET SEAPORT MUSEUM AND MARKETPLACE, South and Fulton Streets, lower Manhattan. The 19th-century port district has an array of restaurants, shops and bars. Among the display areas at the museum are three gallery spaces, a children's crafts center and a boat-building center. Among the current exhibitions: "City in Play: Toys and the Transformation of New York From 1865 to 1945" and "Traveling in Style: 20th-Century Ocean Liners." Hours: daily, 10 A.M. to 6 P.M.; Thursdays until 8. Admission: $6; the elderly, $5; students, $4; children 12 and under, $3. Information: the museum, (212) 748-8600; the marketplace, 732-7678.
 
STATEN ISLAND INSTITUTE OF ARTS AND SCIENCES, 75 Stuyvesant Place, St. George. Cultural museum and library with artistic, scientific and environmental collections. A new exhibit, "Viewpoints: Five Staten Island Illustrators," opens today and runs through next February. Hours: Mondays through Saturdays, 9 A.M. to 5 P.M.; Sundays, 1 to 5 P.M. Suggested admission: $2.50; students and the elderly, $1.25. Information: (718) 727-1135.
 
YESHIVA UNIVERSITY MUSEUM, 2520 Amsterdam Avenue, at 185th Street, Washington Heights. Current exhibitions include "Artisans in Silver: Judaica Today," "Sigmund Forst: A Lifetime in Arts and Letters," "Theodor Herzl: 'If You Will It, It Is Not a Dream,' " and a new interactive children's environment, "Destination Basel: Journey to the First Zionist Congress 1987." The society is among 10 cultural institutions in upper Manhattan that are participating in the fifth "Uptown Treasures" event on Sunday; a bus will provide free transportation among institutions. The first bus leaves at 10:30 A.M. from Columbus Circle; bus information, (212) 342-7077. On Sunday, as part of "Uptown Treasures," gallery tours will be held at 12:45 and 3:30 P.M., and clay workshops for adults and children 6 and older will be offered at 1:30 and 3 P.M. At 2 P.M., Syrian students of the Yeshiva University will perform Syrian Jewish liturgical poems. Admission: $3; $2 for the elderly and children 4 to 6 years old; free for those under 4. This Sunday, admission is free for all. Hours: Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, 10:30 A.M. to 5 P.M.; Sunday, noon to 6 P.M. Information: (212) 960-5390.
 
Zoos
 
BRONX ZOO, Bronx River Parkway and Fordham Road, Fordham. Special areas include Jungle World, Wild Asia and African Plains, which features lions, giraffes, cheetahs and the Arabian oryx; Baboon Reserve; the World of Birds; the Great Apes; the Children's Zoo; the Aitken Sea Bird Colony (with daily penguin feedings at 3:30 P.M.); the Butterfly Zone, with nearly 1,000 butterflies and moths, open through Oct. 12, and Big Birds, with ostriches, emu, rheas and cassowaries. Wild Asia features a $2 monorail ride through more than 28 acres of park. Camel rides are $3; zoo shuttle, $2. The zoo also offers education courses for adults and children. Information and registration: (718) 220-6854. Hours: 10 A.M. to 5 P.M. daily (until 5:30 P.M. on weekends and holidays). Admission: $6.75; the elderly and children 2 to 12, $3; under 2, free. Free on Wednesdays. Parking, $6. Information: (718) 367-1010.
 
CENTRAL PARK ZOO, at Fifth Avenue and 64th Street. Three species of rare tamarin monkeys, along with polar bears, colobus monkeys, gentoo penguins and red pandas. Special attractions include a wildlife theater with improvisational actors performing every hour. Also sea lion feedings at 11:30 A.M., 2 and 4 P.M., and penguin feedings at 10:30 A.M. and 2:30 P.M. Adult education courses are also available. (Information: 212-439-6538.) Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M.; Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, 10:30 A.M. to 5:30 P.M. Admission: $2.50; the elderly, $1.25; children 3 to 12, 50 cents; under 3, free. Information: (212) 861-6030.
 
TISCH CHILDREN'S ZOO IN CENTRAL PARK, Fifth Avenue at 64th Street. The first weekend of the newly reopened and renovated zoo, which features more than 25 species of animals, an Enchanted Forest with interactive displays and an Acorn Theater offering a variety of performances. Open 10 A.M. to 5 P.M. Mondays through Fridays, 10:30 A.M. to 5:30 P.M. Saturdays and Sundays. Admission, which includes entry to the Central Park Zoo: $2.50; $1.25 for the elderly; 50 cents for children three to 12; free for children under 3. Information: (212) 861-6030 or (212) 439-6500.
 
NEW YORK AQUARIUM, West Eighth Street and the Boardwalk, Coney Island, Brooklyn. Exhibition areas include Sea Cliffs, featuring sea otters, seals and wave machines; Discovery Cove, a look at the aquatic world, with a water tank, photographs, interactive videos and games; "The Hudson River"; "Native Sealife," and the Shark Tank. There are also an oceanic tank, a touch-a-ray tank and beluga whale pools. Daily feedings of sea lions, sharks and penguins, 9 A.M. to 6 P.M., including holidays. Admission: $7.75; the elderly and children 2 to 12, $3.50; under 2, free. Information: (718) 265-3474.
 
PROSPECT PARK ZOO, 450 Flatbush Avenue, near Empire Boulevard, Prospect Heights, Brooklyn. Geared to children, with sea lions, baboons, farm animals and a discovery trail. Also a series of weekend activities and crafts. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M.; weekends and holidays, 10 A.M. to 5:30 P.M. Admission: $2.50; the elderly, $1.25; children 3 to 12, 50 cents; 2 and under, free. Information: (718) 399-7339.
 
QUEENS ZOO, 53-51 111th Street, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park. Animals include American bison, prairie dogs, pumas, elk, coyotes, sandhill cranes and bobcats. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M.; weekends and holidays, 10 A.M. to 5:30 P.M. Admission: $2.50; the elderly, $1.25; children 3 to 12, 50 cents; 2 and under, free. Information: (718) 271-1500.
 
STATEN ISLAND ZOO, 614 Broadway, off Forest Avenue, West Brighton. Among the highlights are a serpentarium with turtles and a large collection of rattlesnakes. The zoo also has a rain forest; the African Savannah at Twilight, featuring leopards, caracals, baboons, lizards, birds, bush babies, African striped mice, tortoises and antelopes, and a children's petting zoo. Special weekend activities include a "sunrise safari," in which participants eat breakfast and visit some of the zoo's denizens: the last one is tomorrow at 8:30 A.M. Safari fee: $8. Zoo hours: daily, 10 A.M. to 4:45 P.M. Admission: $3; children 3 to 11, $2; 2 and under, free. Free on Wednesdays after 2 P.M. Information: (718) 442-3100.
 
Cruises
 
PETREL, operated by Sail Away, Battery Park, lower Manhattan. Built in New York in 1938, the Petrel is a 70-foot yacht. Formerly owned by the Coast Guard, it was one of President John F. Kennedy's favorite sailboats. Sails last 45 minutes to two hours and are available in New York Harbor and around the Statue of Liberty. Tonight at 6; tomorrow at 1, 3 and 5:30 P.M.; Sunday, 3 and 5:30 P.M., and most weekdays, 6 P.M. Fees: $18 to $30. Reservations should be made 48 hours in advance. Information: (212) 825-1976.
 
CIRCLE LINE CRUISES, leaving from Pier 83, Hudson River, near 42d Street, Clinton. Three-hour, 35-mile cruises around Manhattan, passing landmarks like Ellis Island and the United Nations. Weekday sailings: 10:30 A.M., 11:30 A.M., 2 P.M. and 3:30 P.M. Weekend sailings: 10 A.M., 11 A.M., noon, 1:30 P.M., 2:30 P.M. and 4 P.M. Tickets: $20; children 12 and under, $10. There are also two-hour express cruises daily at 9:30 A.M., 12:30 P.M. and 3 P.M., and two-hour "Harbor Lights" cruises each evening at 7. Tickets: $17; children 12 and under, $10. Information: (212) 563-3200.
 
SEAPORT LIBERTY CRUISES, leaving from Pier 16, South Street Seaport at the East River, lower Manhattan. Daily one-hour sightseeing cruises year-round at noon and 1:30, 3, 4:30 and 6 P.M., with 7:30 P.M. departures on Saturdays and Sundays. Prices: $12; children 12 and under, $6. The last three two-hour cruises of the season with a disk jockey who plays recorded music are planned at 7 and 10 P.M. today, and at 7 P.M. tomorrow. Cruises with live music are also offered. Tickets: $25. Information: (212) 630-8888.
 
WORLD YACHT, leaving from Pier 81, 41st Street at the Hudson River, Clinton. Daily dinner cruises year-round along the West Side of Manhattan from 7 to 10 P.M., boarding at 6 P.M. On Fridays, there is an additional 8 P.M. cruise that boards at 7 P.M. Prices: Sundays through Fridays, $70.47; Saturdays, $83.46. Sunday brunch cruises from 12:30 to 2:30 P.M., boarding at 11:30 A.M., $40.50 (11 and under, $19.41). Reservations and information: (212) 630-8100.
 
ON THE STREET
Parades
 
SHRINERS PARADE, begins at Madison Avenue and 23d Street, heads east to Broadway and travels south on Broadway to 14th Street, moves east to Avenue of the Americas and heads north on Avenue of the Americas to 23d Street and ends at 23d Street and Fifth Avenue. Tomorrow at 1 P.M.
 
MUSLIM PARADE, Madison Avenue, from 41st to 23d Streets. Sunday at noon.
 
Street Fairs
 
LOWER MANHATTAN STREET FAIR, Wall Street, from South to Water Streets. Sponsored by Community Board No. 1. Today, 11 A.M. to 6 P.M.
 
AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS FALL FESTIVAL, Avenue of the Americas, from 43d to 56th Streets. Sunday, 11 A.M. to 6 P.M.
 
"VILLAGE REFORM DEMOCRATIC CLUB FESTIVAL," Waverly Place between Broadway and Fifth Avenue, Greenwich Village. Sponsored by the Village Reform Democratic Club. Tomorrow, 11 to 6 P.M.
 
"WEST VILLAGE COMMUNITY ALLIANCE FOR PARKS STREET FAIR," Bleecker Street, from Christopher Street to Eighth Avenue and Eighth Avenue, between 11th and 12th Avenues, Greenwich Village. Tomorrow, 11 A.M. to 5 P.M.
 
"10TH PRECINCT FESTIVAL," 23d Street, between Seventh and Eighth Avenues, Chelsea. Sponsored by the 10th Precinct Community Council. Tomorrow, 11 to 6 P.M.
 
"DOMINICAN ACADEMY BLOCK PARTY," East 68th Street, between Park and Madison Avenues, Manhattan. Sponsored by the Dominican Academy High School. Tomorrow, 11 A.M. to 5 P.M.
 
"MARDI GRAS STREET FAIR," Lexington Avenue between 35th and 41st Streets. Sponsored by the Soldiers', Sailors' and Airmen's Club. Sunday, 11 A.M. to 6 P.M.
 
"LONDON TERRACE TENANTS ASSOCIATION FAIR," West 24th Street, between Ninth and 10th Avenues, Chelsea. Tomorrow, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M.
 
"ATLANTIC ANTIC," Atlantic Avenue, between Fourth Avenue and Columbia Street, Boerum Hill-Brooklyn Heights, Brooklyn. Sunday, 10 A.M. to 6 P.M.
 
"FORDHAM RENAISSANCE FESTIVAL," Fordham Road between Morris Avenue and East Kingsbridge Road, the Bronx. Sponsored by the Bronx Council for Economic Development. Sunday, 11 A.M. to 6 P.M.
 
WALKING TOURS
 
"ELLIS ISLAND." A tour of the Ellis Island Immigration Museum with a talk about the history of American Immigration. Meets tomorrow at noon at the Castle Clinton National Monument, Battery Park. Tickets: $15; $13 for students and the elderly (includes ferry ticket and movie admission at the museum). Sponsored by Big Onion Walking Tours. Information: (212) 439-1090.
 
GREENWICH VILLAGE. A walking tour with an emphasis on the history and architecture of the area. Meets tomorrow at 1 P.M. at the Washington Square Arch. Fee, $9; $7 for students and the elderly. Sponsored by Big Onion Walking Tours. Information: (212) 439-1090.
 
"PRE-ROSH HA-SHANAH JEWISH EAST SIDE," lower Manhattan. A walking tour that focuses on the history of the area, with stops at the Eldridge Street Synagogue, the Jewish Daily Forward building on East Broadway and the founding site of B'nai B'rith, at 60 Essex Street. Meets Sunday at 1 P.M. at the southeast corner of Essex and Delancey Streets. Fee, $9; $7 for students and the elderly. Sponsored by Big Onion Walking Tours. Information: (212) 439-1090.
 
"SOHO AND NOHO." A tour emphasizing the architectural history of the areas. Tomorrow at 1 P.M. Sponsored by the Municipal Art Society. Fee, $15; $12 for members of the Municipal Art Society. Reservations and other information: (212) 935-3960.
 
"PROUD OF PLACE: THE UPPER WEST SIDE." A tour that traces the development of the residential area. Meets today at 12:30 P.M. at the northeast corner of Amsterdam Avenue and 72d Street. Sponsored by the Municipal Art Society. Fee, $10; $8 for students, the elderly and Municipal Art Society members. Information: (212) 935-3960.
 
"ELEGANT MURRAY HILL," Manhattan. A tour past noted such historical residences as the homes of J. P. Morgan Jr. and Franklin Delano Roosevelt, as well as Sniffen Court and the Union League Club. Sunday at noon. Sponsored by Adventure on a Shoestring. Meeting place and reservations: (212) 265-2663.
 
"EAST VILLAGE." A tour of an area rich in Ukrainian culture and featuring such historic sites as Cooper Union, St. Mark's Church and McSorley's Old Ale House. Sunday at 3 P.M. Fee: $5. Sponsored by Adventure on a Shoestring. Meeting place and reservations: (212) 265-2663.
 
"MILLIONAIRES ROW," Manhattan. A tour that includes the residences of such tycoons as the Rockefellers, the Vanderbilts and the Hearsts, as well as the Plaza Hotel. Sunday at 5 P.M. Fee: $5. Sponsored by Adventure on a Shoestring. Meeting place and reservations: (212) 265-2663.
 
"PUBS AND POLTERGEISTS," Greenwich Village. A tour of the "haunted" taverns of the West Village. Meets tomorrow at 6 P.M. in front of St. Luke-in-the-Fields, Hudson at Grove Streets. Fee: $10 (not including drinks). Sponsored by Street Smarts N.Y. Information: (212) 969-8262.
 
"PRE-ROSH HA-SHANAH LOWER EAST SIDE." A walk that blends stops at landmarks of Jewish immigration - the Eldridge Street Synagogue, the old Jewish Daily Forward - with sites associated with a growing Asian population. Sunday at 11 A.M. Fee, $16. Sponsored by the 92d Street Y, at Lexington Avenue. Meeting place and other information: (212) 996-1100.
 
"ART AND POLITICS: SOHO AND FIORELLO." A walk past the galleries that fill the area, with a discussion of their history. The walk ends with a tea. Meets tomorrow at 1:30 P.M. at the Washington Square Hotel, 103 Waverly Places. Price: $20. Reservations: (212) 254-1200.
 
"CENTRAL PARK AT AUTUMN." A walk that includes stops at Bethesda Fountain, the Ramble and Strawberry Fields. Tomorrow and Sunday at 12:30 P.M. Fee, $10. Sponsored by NYC Tours. Meeting place and other information: (212) 465-3331.
 
"CENTRAL PARK WEST." A tour of the architecture and history of the area, featuring stops at the Dakota, the San Remo and other buildings as well as Central Park. Meets Sunday at 2 P.M. at the northwest corner of West 61st Street and Broadway. Fee, $10. Sponsored by the New York City Cultural Walking Tours. Information: (212) 979-2388.
 
"EAST VILLAGE II." A tour of well-known and not so well-known political sites in the area including the apartments on St. Marks Place that once housed Abbie Hoffman, one of the founders of the Yippies (30 St. Marks Place) and Leon Trotsky, the Russian revolutionary (77 St. Marks Place) as well as Tompkins Square Park and the farm and estate of Peter Stuyvesant, the last Dutch Governor of New Netherland (soon to be New York). Meets on Sunday at 1 P.M. at St. Mark's Church, Second Avenue at 10th Street. Fee, $6. Sponsored by Radical Walking Tours. Information: (718) 492-0069.
 
"SUTTON-BEEKMAN PLACE-TURTLE BAY, FROM BETTER TO BEST," Manhattan. A walk past the former residences of Greta Garbo, Irving Berlin and Rex Harrison. Meets on Sunday at 2 P.M. at the northwest corner of York Avenue and East 61st Street. Fee, $9. Sponsored by Bernie's New York. Information: (718) 655-1883.
 
RECREATION
 
DONALD J. TRUMP FIFTH AVENUE MILE, Manhattan. A one-mile race down Fifth Avenue for runners age 13 and older; a separate race will be held at the same location for children age 7 to 12. Both begin tomorrow at 10:20 A.M. at 82d Street and end at 62d Street. The proceeds are to benefit the Police Athletic League of New York City. There is advance registration at the New York Road Runners Club, 9 East 89th Street, Manhattan; on race day, registration is at 79th Street and Fifth Avenue from 8:30 to 10 A.M. Information: (212) 860-4455.
 
MEN'S HEALTH/POLO SPORT RACE TO DELIVER, Manhattan. A four-mile race to benefit God's Love We Deliver, a program for homebound AIDS patients. Begins Sunday at 11 A.M. at the tranverse near Bethesda Fountain in Central Park; a "Pee Wee Race to Deliver" for those 2 to 8 years old begins at 9:30 A.M. Runners should come with pledges. Advance registration at the New York Road Runners Club, 9 East 89th Street, Manhattan; on race day, at the starting area. Registration fee, $20; $13 for Road Runner members; pee wee, $6; $4 for members. Information: (212) 860-4455.
 
"MEMORY WALK: A CELEBRATION." A walk to benefit the New York City Chapter of the Alzheimer's Association; the walk is confined to the sidewalks. It begins Sunday at 10 A.M. at the Fountain Plaza at Lincoln Center, then heads east to Broadway and continues south along Broadway to 44th Street; it then bears right at 44th to Seventh Avenue and continues on Seventh Avenue to 41st Street; it will turn left at 41st and proceed to Avenue of the Americas and to Bryant Park, where entertainment is planned, to take place around 11 A.M. The walk then continues south along Avenue of the Americas, from 40th to 34th Streets, then bears east to Broadway and continues on Broadway to 25th Street. The walk will end at Madison Square Park, at 25th Street, between Fifth Avenue and Broadway. Registration for the event begins at 9 A.M.; fee, $15. Walkers can be sponsored by others. Information: (800) 638-5433.
 
13TH BIKE TOUR FOR MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS. Thousands of riders are expected to take part in courses ranging from 30 to 100 miles in Manhattan, New Jersey and the Hudson Valley. The start and finish line is at the World Trade Center Plaza, lower Manhattan. Sunday 7:30 A.M.; registration begins at 6:15 A.M. Registration fee, $20 (in advance) or $30 on the day; riders are also asked to raise a minimum of $50 in pledges. Sponsored by the National Multiple Sclerosis Society. Information: (212) 463-7787.
 
"CATCH-AND-RELEASE FISHING AT THE HARLEM MEER." Charles A. Dana Discovery Center, Fifth Avenue at 110th Street, Central Park. More than 50,000 fish, including bass, catfish and golden shiners, are available to be caught and then returned to the Harlem Meer, an 11-acre lake, by those 6 and older. Fishing allowed April through October. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 A.M. to 3:30 P.M. Bamboo poles and bait are provided free by the Central Park Conservancy to anglers with identification. Information: (212) 860-1370.

GRAPHIC: Photos: ATTRACTIONS -- First-graders from the Dalton School at the new Tisch Children's Zoo in Central Park. (Librado Romero/The New York Times); WALKING TOURS -- An excursion to the Ellis Island Immigration Museum, with a talk about the history of American immigration, is to leave tomorrow at noon from Castle Clinton in Battery Park. (Associated Press); ATTRACTIONS -- Creatures in "The Lost World: The Life and Death of Dinosaurs," at the American Museum of Natural History. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MOUNT VERNON NEON (58%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (59%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (59%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT AND AMUSEMENTS; MUSEUMS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); FILM (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PAINTING (78%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (76%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (76%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); FILM HISTORY (66%); FILM DIRECTORS (65%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (60%); INTERIOR DECORATING (56%); 

PERSON: DAVID LETTERMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1997



493 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 260 words

HEADLINE: Stealth Bomber Is Latest in String of Failures

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Representative John R. Kasich's reasoned call against further financing for the B-2 Stealth bomber (Op-Ed, Sept. 19) neglects to mention that this aircraft is quickly becoming the third failed Air Force strategic bomber in a row.
Forty years ago, the Air Force began development on the B-70 bomber, designed to replace the B-52 bomber. Despite Congressional and Air Force pressure, President Kennedy canceled the $9.2 billion program in 1961 after serious questions were raised about its effectiveness and necessity. 
 The B-1 bomber -- initiated in 1970, canceled by President Carter in 1977 and resurrected by President Reagan in 1981 -- was intended to bridge the gap between the aging but still capable B-52 and the B-2. Built at a cost of $33.7 billion and plagued by technical problems, the B-1, which also incorporates stealth technology, has never seen combat. By the end of the year, all 94 remaining B-1's will be transferred to the Air National Guard.
Now comes the B-2. Its technical and maintenance shortcomings, which Mr. Kasich mentions, are unlikely to be satisfactorily resolved. Meanwhile, the B-52, built for a mere $42.9 million apiece, continues to perform admirably after 35 years of service. The lesson seems clear: technological advances like stealth may be revolutionary, but they come at an increasingly unsupportable price, in terms of economic cost and military readiness.
 
STEPHEN I. SCHWARTZ
Washington, Sept. 22, 1997
 
Dir., Nuclear Weapons Cost Study
Project, Brookings Institution

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: US AIR FORCE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; B-2 AIRPLANE; STEALTH AIRCRAFT; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE ARMED FORCES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); AIRLINES (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%); 

PERSON: SCHWARTZ, STEPHEN I; KASICH, JOHN R (REPR) JOHN KASICH (90%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); RONALD REAGAN (75%); JIMMY CARTER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1997



494 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1997

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 10; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: FILM REVIEW;
The Cold War Is Back, Nuclear Bombs and All

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN 

 BODY:
The camera crosses over a bombed-out courtyard at a Sarajevo apartment house. It moves into the book-lined home of an erudite piano teacher who is gently giving a lesson to a young girl. In the language of "The Peacemaker," which is filled with catchy and ironic juxtapositions like this one, this scene can mean only one thing. The gentlemanly teacher is planning to blow up New York.
The prevalence of such hooks in "The Peacemaker," a breathless thriller about purloined nuclear warheads, might bring to mind Steven Spielberg even if he were not the mentor of Mimi Leder, who makes a forceful feature-directing debut after much experience directing television dramas (including "E.R." and "L.A. Law"). Speaking of hooks, this film introduces the sweetly whimsical new logo of the Dreamworks SKG studio, which shows a little boy fishing off a crescent moon. The first film he reels in is definitely a decent catch. 
 "The Peacemaker" begins in Russia with the hijacking of a trainload of nuclear devices that are meant to be deactivated in accordance with the Start treaty. Then it quickly summons an American team to the rescue. "God, I miss the cold war," says the national security adviser, echoing the movie's apparent sentiments. The story, with its taste for heavies from the former Soviet Union, is derived from reporting by Andrew and Leslie Cockburn about actual weapons smuggling but has the flavor of a Hollywood paranoid thriller.
Into the breach come George Clooney, who is naturally well cast as a charming roue, and Nicole Kidman. While he has the standard, affable role of a military intelligence officer, she plays someone more abrasive: Dr. Julia Kelly, acting head of the White House Nuclear Smuggling Group. Dr. Kelly is a humorless smarty-pants, the kind of woman who strides around barking orders and uses the term "A.S.A.P." in conversation. Like Jodie Foster's character in "Contact," she expresses womanly professionalism as fierce, hostile sternness. Some day we will look back to see the freakish exaggeration in this behavior.
Anyway, these two hit the ground running and never stop. With locations including France, Germany, Macedonia, Slovakia and the Czech Republic, "The Peacemaker" races in hot pursuit of the warheads. Highlights along the way include a picturesque Viennese car chase, satellite surveillance of the type used during the gulf war, and a furious truck-helicopter battle with the warheads at risk. Brusque Dr. Kelly, whose expertise includes familiarity with the works of Calvin Klein, manages to look wonderfully chic throughout this mayhem.
Eventually, the film locates the Bosnian terrorists who seek to avenge the recent past and plot to bring a nuclear weapon into the United States. "The Peacemaker" culminates in a show-stopping action sequence set in midtown Manhattan, directed by Ms. Leder with crisp economy and furious energy. The actors look great on the run in such circumstances, which is the major part of their job.
Also in "The Peacemaker," a film that noticeably skimps on its supporting cast, is Armin Mueller-Stahl as a kindly old comrade of Mr. Clooney's rakish officer. This courtly actor is a welcome presence for as long as his role lasts, but no secondary players in the restless "Peacemaker" stick around very long.
"The Peacemaker" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It includes mild profanity and moderate violence.
 
THE PEACEMAKER
 
Directed by Mimi Leder; written by Michael Schiffer; director of photography, Dietrich Lohmann; edited by David Rosenbloom; music by Hans Zimmer; production designer, Leslie Dilley; produced by Walter Parkes and Branko Lustig; released by Dreamworks SKG. Running time: 122 minutes. This film is rated R.
 
WITH: George Clooney (Thomas Devoe), Nicole Kidman (Julia Kelly) and Armin Mueller-Stahl (Dmitri Vertikoff).

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nicole Kidman and George Clooney in "The Peacemaker," Mimi Leder's thriller about stolen nuclear warheads. (Dreamworks Pictures)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: PEACEMAKER, THE (MOVIE)

TICKER: DWA (NASDAQ) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (69%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (69%); 

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (74%); GERMANY (70%); FRANCE (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (74%); GERMANY (70%); FRANCE (52%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; REVIEWS NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (88%); FILM (88%); SMUGGLING (75%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (75%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (73%); HIJACKING (72%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (70%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (69%); TERRORISM (67%); DESERT STORM (65%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (65%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (54%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (54%); 

PERSON: KIDMAN, NICOLE; CLOONEY, GEORGE; LEDER, MIMI; MASLIN, JANET NICOLE KIDMAN (72%); GEORGE CLOONEY (72%); STEVEN SPIELBERG (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1997



495 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Signs of a German Rate Rise Push Dollar Lower vs. Mark

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar fell sharply against the mark yesterday as strong German economic data and comments from the country's central bank, the Bundesbank, suggested that the bank could soon raise interest rates.
But the dollar gained against the yen, which was sold in favor of the mark and other European currencies. The European rally pushed the dollar to its lowest level against the British pound since Aug. 5. 
 "We're trading off expectations of the Bundesbank" raising interest rates, said Bob Near, a vice president at Bank of New York.
In late New York trading, the dollar settled at 1.7590 marks, down from 1.7727 on Wednesday and its lowest since July 10. The dollar rose to 120.88 yen from 120.40.
The mark was bolstered by a report that German import prices rose 5.4 percent in August compared with a year earlier, the steepest annual rise since May 1989. The surge led traders to believe that the Bundesbank might raise interest rates soon to cool inflationary pressure.
That belief was strengthened by remarks from the vice president of the Bundesbank, Johann Wilhelm Gaddum, who said a report on Wednesday showing a slowdown in western German consumer prices should not be seen as reversing the recent growth trend.
"The overriding message from the Bundesbank is dollar-negative," said Allison Montgomery, a currency analyst with I.D.E.A. Inc.
The mark's rally against the yen, on the perception that Germany was far more likely to raise interest rates than Japan, also strengthened the British pound and Swiss franc against the dollar and the yen.
The pound traded at $1.6300 in New York, up from $1.6142, while the dollar fell to 1.4488 Swiss francs from 1.4580 francs.
Against the yen, the dollar benefited as the American economy showed signs of growth while Japan's economy continues to struggle. Yesterday, Japan reported a slowdown in the growth of auto output, while the United States released positive factory order and unemployment data.
The dollar lost some of its gains against the yen in late trading after the United States trade representative, Charlene Barshefsky, said again that Japan's trade surplus was causing concern in Washington.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (74%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (74%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC5136 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING & FURNISHINGS (67%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (67%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: BUNDESBANK BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (74%); I/D/E/A/ INC (67%); US DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUNDESBANK US DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; GERMANY; EUROPE; GERMANY (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (93%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES CURRENCIES (92%); CENTRAL BANKS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); TRENDS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); BRITISH POUND (89%); INFLATION (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (71%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (68%); IMPORT PRICES (68%); FACTORY ORDERS (61%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1997



496 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: FINANCE BRIEFS

 BODY:

Debt
Bepensa S.A., Mexico, is selling $110 million of bonds due in 2004 through Santander Investment. The bonds carry an interest rate of 9.75 percent and are priced at par. The issue is rated BB- by Duff & Phelps.
 
Enterprise Oil P.L.C., London, is selling $350 million of Yankee notes due in 2007 through Lehman Brothers. The noncallable notes are priced at 99.717 to yield 6.7 percent. The issue is rated A3 by Moody's and A- by S.& P. 

Fannie Mae is selling $100 million of notes due in 2002 through J.P. Morgan Securities. The notes carry an interest rate of 6.33 percent and are priced at par.
 
Fannie Mae is selling $100 million of notes due in 2000 through First Tennessee Bank. The notes carry an interest rate of 6.1 percent and are priced at par.
 
Federal Home Loan Bank is selling $50 million of bonds due in 1999 through First Tennessee Bank. The bonds carry an interest rate of 6.04 percent and are priced at par.
 
Irvine Apartment Communities, Newport Beach, Calif., is selling $100 million of notes due in 2007 through J. P. Morgan Securities. The notes are priced at 99.208 to yield 7 percent. The issue is rated Baa2 by Moody's and BBB- by S.& P.
 
Korea Electric Power Corp. is selling $150 million of Yankee notes through UBS Securities. The notes are priced at 99.916 to yield 7 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KEP (NYSE) (67%); 015760 (KSE) (67%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (72%); SIC1381 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (72%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (67%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (56%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (91%); ENTERPRISE OIL PLC (72%); KOREA ELECTRIC POWER CORP (67%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); FIRST TENNESSEE BANK NA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (90%); BONDS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (70%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (68%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1997



497 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Stock Seesaw Tips Down As Dow Posts Loss of 58.70

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA 

 BODY:
It has been this way for more than six weeks now, a seesaw battle between those investors who are more bullish and those who are less so.
Yesterday, the game went to the lesser bulls, those who having made money this year, have recently become uneasy about inflation, earnings slowdowns and interest rates. 
 In short, the stock market has been stuck in neutral. The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 58.70 points yesterday, its third consecutive loss, closing at 7,848.01, after interest rates in the bond market rose on reports that the economy was strengthening, lifting inflation worries.
Although inflation has been largely absent this year, economic strength continues to renew concerns that the economy could overheat. And when interest rates rise, analysts say, some money flows out of the stock market and into the bond market, as it did yesterday.
"It looks like we had a little hiccup in interest rates," said Steven H. Reynolds, chief investment officer at Zurich Kemper Investments in Chicago. "There was concern that the economy may be accelerating, or growing too quickly."
Those concerns arose after the Government said that factory orders for expensive items, like automobiles, airplanes and refrigerators, increased for the third consecutive month in August, and that home resales also soared. The Government reported that initial jobless claims for benefits fell last week, an indication that the employment market is tight, yet another element that could contribute to inflationary pressure.
Mr. Reynolds, however, said that the durable orders report was not troubling because it showed a big increase in spending on electronics and technology -- goods that increase productivity and offset employment gains, nullifying rather than igniting inflation.
"Technology spending decreases production costs," he said. "You get good economic growth because of high productivity, but little inflation."
Still, the markets' broadest measures all fell. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 6.57 points, to 937.91, and the Nasdaq composite lost 8.52 points, to 1,678.89. Volume on the Big Board was average, at 525 million shares, with slightly more stocks losing ground than gaining.
The Russell 2000 index of smaller- company stocks fell 0.66 point, to 447.92, as it continues to fare better than the blue-chip indexes.
For some time, small-capitalization and technology issues have been outperforming blue chips, partly because the stocks of large multinationals have grown too pricey, analysts said, and partly because investors sold them at huge profits after the Dow and S. & P. 500 rose about 30 percent from mid-April to early August.
Now, analysts say, the market is going through a period of consolidation, with blue chips in their worst drought of the year.
"We've been in a consolidation phase since early August, a churning phase," said James Crawford, chief investment officer at Trevor Stewart Burton & Jacobsen Inc. "Valuations in this market are far from cheap, and now you have a question mark about earnings and an economy that's working at a high level of capacity."
Despite the consolidation woes, money continues to flow into mutual funds at close to record levels, according to Mutual Fund Trim Tabs, which tracks such flows. About $17 billion went into United States equity funds through Sept. 22, Charles Biderman, the president, said.
Even with the recent weakness, the Dow is still up 21.7 percent this year, and the S. & P. 500 is up 26.6 percent. The Nasdaq, though, has done even better, up 30 percent.
Yesterday, 21 of the Dow's 30 component stocks fell, led down by Merck, which lost $2.1875, to $99.625. Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing was the best-performing Dow stock, up 87.5 cents, to $87.875.
Shares of Cognos , a software developer, fell 33 percent yesterday, down $10.6875, to $22.625, after the company said that growth would slow because of competition.
 
ON THE WEB
The latest stock and mutual fund quotations, along with news updates, are available on the Internet from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (58%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (58%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE ASSET MANAGEMENT SCUDDER INVESTMENTS (56%); CHICAGO BULLS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO BULLS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (58%); ILLINOIS, USA (58%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); EXISTING HOME SALES (72%); DURABLE GOODS (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%); 

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID PAULA G ROSPUT REYNOLDS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1997



498 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: Orders for Durable Goods Climb a Hefty 2.7%

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 25

 BODY:
Record demand for electronic products during August led the third consecutive monthly increase in orders for durable goods, suggesting that the economy continued to expand at a healthy pace.
The Commerce Department said today that durable goods orders rose 2.7 percent last month, well above analysts' expectations, to nearly $186.6 billion, a record. The department revised its orders data for July to show a gain of one-tenth of 1 percent instead of the decline of three-tenths of 1 percent reported initially. 
 In a separate report today, the Labor Department said jobless claims fell unexpectedly last week, an indication that the unemployment rate would continue to hover below 5 percent -- its lowest level in nearly a quarter of a century.
First-time claims for state unemployment benefits fell by 2,000 last week, to a seasonally adjusted 306,000, while the total number of jobless workers collecting benefit checks declined to the lowest level since September 1989. In the previous week, jobless claims fell a revised 4,000.
Today's data caused bond prices to fall because of concerns that the pace of economic growth could prompt the Federal Reserve's policy makers, who meet next Tuesday, to raise interest rates to defend against an acceleration in inflation. Still, few analysts expect immediate action by the Fed because consumer prices have been rising at the slowest pace in 11 years. Orders for durable goods, expensive items intended to last more than three years, tend to be volatile from month to month, and economists caution against reading too much into one month's statistics.
Excluding transportation equipment, durable goods orders rose 2 percent during August. Excluding military hardware, orders increased 2.8 percent.
A record 28.4 percent surge in orders for electronic components, the first increase in that category since May, led August's gain over all in orders. In addition to components like circuit boards and semiconductors, the category includes telephones, televisions and refrigerators.
Orders for transportation equipment, led by aircraft, and for military capital goods also increased. Orders for metals and industrial equipment declined.
Unfilled orders for durable goods, a gauge of pent-up demand, increased 1.1 percent during August after having fallen half a percent in July. Shipments of durable goods, a gauge of current demand, fell 1.4 percent during the month on the heels of a 1.8 percent rise in July.
Separately, the National Association of Realtors said today that sales of existing homes rose 3.3 percent in August, to an annual rate of 4.32 million units, the highest level in nearly four years. Analysts had expected the report to show a decline.
The association had been scheduled to issue its monthly report this morning but postponed the announcement until Friday. The data were released by mistake by the industry group's research department and disclosed by a bank's economics department.
Home resales rose 6.5 percent in the West, to an annual rate of 980,000 units; 4.4 percent in the South, to 1.64 million units, and 3.3 percent in the Midwest, to a 1.1 million-unit rate. They fell 4.8 percent in the Northeast, to 600,000 units.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; LABOR; HOUSING; SALES MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (95%); DURABLE GOODS (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (87%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CIRCUIT BOARDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (75%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); BONDS (74%); SHIPMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (63%); BOND MARKETS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1997



499 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Signs of Life, and Wall St. Applause, for the Giant of Detroit

BYLINE: By ROBYN MEREDITH 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 25

 BODY:
The General Motors Corporation, a sleeping giant on Wall Street, has reawakened.
In the last two months, G.M.'s shares have risen about 20 percent after treading water over most of the last three years. Some analysts predict that G.M. stock will continue its climb. 
 The turnabout has come as the company's market share in the United States has improved and its labor troubles seem to have receded. Apparently, investors have decided that the stock, with a rock-bottom price-to-earnings ratio, is a bargain after more than three years of poor performance.
G.M. executives share the optimism. "My judgment is that with the high prices for growth stocks, the market is backing away from that and they're looking at cyclicals -- and looking at cyclicals that have good value -- and we happen to be there," said John F. Smith Jr., G.M.'s chairman and chief executive, speaking with reporters in Frankfurt, Germany, earlier in the month.
Wall Street auto analysts said the run-up in G.M.'s stock, which began in July, partly reflected optimism that the company's long-promised turnaround could be materializing. "The sentiment has changed on G.M.," said David Bradley of J. P. Morgan Securities. "The cloud that hung over General Motors has lifted."
Skies had been gray for a long time. After war broke out in the Persian Gulf in 1990, G.M. shares fell to the $30 range after touching about $50. They rebounded briefly in 1992, only to slip back to $29.125 shortly before Mr. Smith replaced Robert C. Stempel as chief executive. About 18 months later, the stock climbed as high as $64.75 a share before slipping back again into the mid-50's. Much of this year, it has traded between $54 and $58. It closed at $54.25 on July 15 and began its run-up within days.
Last Friday, G.M.'s stock ended the day at a record $69.5625. Since then, it has faltered somewhat; analysts attribute the decline to profit taking. G.M. shares closed today at $65.125, down 87.5 cents.
Many Wall Street analysts think that the stock has room to rise further in the next few months. Wendy Beale Needham of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette predicts that G.M. shares will reach $81. Joseph S. Phillippi of Lehman Brothers said the stock could reach $75.
G.M.'s Mr. Smith refused to specify a target, but said that the company's price-to-earnings ratio of less than 9 was low. "We see that as being a number that could increase," he said.
Sentiment has changed for the auto maker, the world's largest, which has been struggling to right itself since the board room coup that ousted Mr. Stempel in favor of Mr. Smith. "The ship is finally starting to turn," Mr. Phillippi said. He and other analysts point to a number of reasons Wall Street has gained confidence in G.M.'s stock.
Perhaps most important, value investors have begun looking to General Motors and some other auto stocks because their price-earnings ratios make them seem like bargains compared with stocks that have risen significantly in the bull market. While G.M.'s P/E ratio is 8.7, the average P/E for the Standard & Poor's 500 is nearly 24.
"It is hard to find stocks with single-digit multiples whose earnings are decent," said Maryann N. Keller, an auto analyst with Furman Selz Inc.
Mr. Phillippi of Lehman Brothers said value investors were becoming interested in auto stocks, and adding, "People are basically saying these stocks are cheap."
Perhaps the most obvious reason for the optimism about G.M. is the turnabout in the company's market share, which had steadily shrunk since the early 1960's, when it was about 60 percent.
All year long, General Motors has promised investors that if they would only be patient, they would see the market share rebound as buyers latched onto the 15 redesigned models G.M. began selling in 1997. The company's share of the United States market fell to a shockingly low 28.7 percent in June. But to the relief of Wall Street, it has steadily climbed since, to 31 percent in July and 32 percent in August.
Around the same time, an end seems in sight to labor problems. "I personally think that G.M. has come to their senses," Stephen P. Yokich, president of the United Automobile Workers union, said earlier this month. G.M. has faced nine costly strikes in the last year and a half as it tried to negotiate agreements with its 105 local union bargaining units. It has now reached agreements with all but four.
G.M.'s plan to spin off its $6 billion military electronics unit to Raytheon has looked more and more promising to Wall Street this summer. In mid-July, the Internal Revenue Service issued a favorable tax ruling on the deal and the Air Force gave its approval. The deal awaits formal clearance from antitrust regulators.
Analysts expect G.M.'s earnings to be strong, partly because auto sales have been healthy this summer after a rocky first half. While third-quarter earnings are expected to be weaker than last year's third quarter, analysts are forecasting a robust second half because of an expected strong finish in the final three months of 1997. One reason is that G.M. is planning to build a larger number of profitable light trucks.
According to a survey by First Call, analysts estimate third-quarter earnings at $1.19 a share, down from $1.23 a year earlier. For the full year, G.M. is projected to earn $7.58 a share, well above $5.37 last year. And 1998 is expected to be even better. Analysts' estimates approach $8 a share.
As a result, some analysts have been hoping for a further dividend increase, perhaps as early as next month. G.M.'s dividend has been raised three times, most recently in January, and now stands at 50 cents a share. The stock may also have been helped by the $5 billion in buybacks the company has announced this year.
Yet, as for any stock that depends so much on the strength of the economy, a bet on G.M. is still a bet that the good times will keep on rolling.
"The economy is running strong and running at high unemployment and low inflation," Mr. Smith said, "and now I think people are starting to say, 'Gee, maybe there isn't a recession right around the corner.' We don't see 1998 as being a bad year."
 

GRAPHIC: Chart: "General Motors"
Since mid-July, investors in General Motors' stock have begun to see returns that mimic the bull market returns of the Standard & Poor's 500 index. Chart shows the S.&P. 500 index and General Motors from January through September of 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (54%); JPM (LSE) (54%); 8634 (TSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (70%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (55%); INDIAN OCEAN (54%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (94%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (54%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (51%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (70%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (55%); INDIAN OCEAN (54%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; FINANCES STOCK INDEXES (92%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); MARKET SHARE (58%); 

PERSON: MEREDITH, ROBYN MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1997



500 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Inflation Fear Drops Prices Of Treasuries

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities tumbled yesterday to a nearly two-month low as reports on durable goods orders, jobless claims and home sales rekindled investor fears that the economy might be growing too fast.
An increase in inflation could force the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates, though most experts do not expect it will happen at next week's meeting of the Fed's policy-making committee. 
 The 30-year Treasury bond tumbled 1 3/32, to a price of 99 24/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 6.39 percent from 6.31 percent on Wednesday.
A drop in the Conference Board's help-wanted index, along with hopes of short-covering and a coupon pass, in which the Fed buys various maturities to add money to the banking system, did help the market recover briefly, but it was talk of Fed selling for another foreign central bank that depressed bond prices.
Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Asset Management, said the significant rise in yields came after the release of a surprisingly strong 2.7 percent gain in durable goods orders for August, to a seasonally adjusted $186.6 billion, a record.
"While a 51.6 percent surge in civilian aircraft orders certainly helped boost the final result, new orders for durable goods would have risen a solid 1.2 percent even without the leap in aircraft," he said. He also noted that the category with the largest increase was electronic and electrical equipment, and perhaps of greater interest was the fact that the greatest gains were concentrated in consumer products.
Mr. Fine said that while it might be premature to draw any conclusions based only on the numbers from one month, the August gains, excluding aircraft, did not seem to be related to exports and might be a sign of gearing up for the Christmas season.
"However, while the jumps in durable goods orders and existing- home sales may prove to be important down the road," he added, "these indicators are not likely to be decisive elements at the Federal Open Market Committee meeting on Tuesday, as it is the lack of inflationary signals that is keeping the Fed at bay.
"The Fed meeting will clearly be the most important event affecting financial markets next week, but with no change in monetary policy expected by virtually everyone at this point, calling it a highlight may be somewhat of an overstatement. The numbers today clearly showed that the previous day's euphoria was somewhat premature."
The drop in the help-wanted index may have given market participants the impression that there is a little less tightness in the labor market, but yesterday's weekly initial claims data continued to remain fairly low, offsetting the help-wanted index.
Initial claims for unemployment benefits fell 2,000, to a seasonally adjusted 306,000, in the week ended Saturday, consistent with a strong job market. A more complete picture of the jobs market will come next week when the Labor Department releases September nonfarm payroll numbers.
Existing-home sales for August, which were not supposed to be released until today, according to the National Association of Realtors, were accidentally leaked. The 3.3 percent rise in home sales only added more to signs of economic strength.
Prices also fell in the municipal bond market as the Transportation Corridor Agency of San Joaquin, Calif., initially priced $1.46 billion in toll-road refunding revenue bonds through underwriters led by Smith Barney Inc. The bond sale was originally scheduled for next week, but many borrowers are moving earlier to take advantage of low rates.
Underwriters report that many of the bonds are insured to protect interest and principal payments. Smith Barney priced $450 million of capital appreciation bonds, or zero coupon bonds, which pay no interest but if held to maturity yield from 4.20 percent for a bond due in 2000 to 5.67 percent for one due in 2036.
For $605 million of the bonds, the yield ranged from 5.69 percent for an issue due in 2028, rated Baa-3 by Moody's and BBB- by Standard & Poor's, to 5.46 percent for an insured bond due in 2030. And $405 million of convertible capital appreciation bonds were priced to yield from 5.60 percent for a bond due in 2016 to 5.75 percent for one due in 2024.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields"
Average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds in percent. Chart shows average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds in percent for the period of June through September 1997. (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); DURABLE GOODS (91%); BONDS (91%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (79%); NEW ORDERS (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (79%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); CHRISTMAS (50%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT CLARE SHORT (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1997



501 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: In Intel Inquiry, U.S. Regulators Send a Message

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
With its investigation of the Intel Corporation, the Federal Trade Commission is signaling that the Government will continue to closely police the leading high-technology companies that play an increasing role in the economy, antitrust experts and industry analysts said yesterday.
The antitrust inquiry, which Intel confirmed Wednesday evening, is the second time the trade commission has examined the big microchip maker in the 1990's. The first investigation of Intel ended in 1993, after two years, without any charges of using unfair business methods to undermine competition. The Microsoft Corporation, the dominant maker of software for personal computers, has been under investigation by the Justice Department since 1993. 
 The commission sent subpoenas Tuesday evening to several personal computer and chip makers, seeking information and documents about Intel's practices in the industry.
But the agency staff has been doing preliminary research on Intel for several months, and the commission formally approved a resolution on Sept. 11 authorizing full use of its compulsory powers to investigate Intel. The resolution carries the name of the F.T.C. chairman, Robert Pitofsky, and three other commissioners. The inquiry from 1991 to 1993 seems to have been conducted at a lower level, under the auspices of the F.T.C.'s Bureau of Competition, antitrust lawyers said.
For years, chip rivals have complained about the aggressive business practices of Intel, whose chips serve as the central processing "brain" in more than 80 percent of personal computers. PC makers who use Intel's chips have at times bridled at their dependence on a single supplier.
The F.T.C. investigation comes at a time when Intel's power in the industry is increasing further. Competition from chip makers like Advanced Micro Devices Inc. and the Cyrix Corporation is being blunted. And Apple Computer Inc., which uses the so-called Power PC chip, made by Motorola and I.B.M., is considering a switch to the Intel standard.
At the same time, Intel is extending its reach, moving into the business of graphics chips used in multimedia computing. Its proposed acquisition of a maker of graphics chips, Chips and Technologies Inc., has already been delayed by a separate F.T.C. review.
Given the industry criticism of Intel and the company's growing power, antitrust experts said, the F.T.C. inquiry is not surprising. "Intel is a big target," said Charles F. Rule, a partner at Covington & Burling, a Washington law firm, and a former head of the Justice Department's antitrust division. "And an antitrust agency almost cannot afford to ignore a chorus of complaints about a powerful company. If you do, you set yourself up for charges of not doing your job."
Art Amolsch, editor of FTC: Watch, a biweekly newsletter, agreed. "This is antitrust due diligence by the Government," he said. "Any time you have a company gain as big a market share as Intel, in an industry that is so important to the economy, it is going to be under close antitrust scrutiny."
The subpoenas, called civil investigative demands, ask for information in several areas. Specifically, according to a copy of one subpoena, the F.T.C. is seeking any evidence of practices that would restrain a PC maker from using chips that compete with Intel's. Such practices, the subpoena states, include "any statement, action or policy" by Intel that it might "change the availability of Intel technical information" to any company that chose to use chips made by other companies as well as Intel.
The subpoena also seeks information on potentially restrictive practices by Intel, like refusing to allow engineers at PC companies to do design work on machines using non-Intel microprocessors if they have had access to Intel's technical information.
The Government is also requesting information on the subsidies Intel pays PC makers to feature its "Intel Inside" motto as part of the PC companies' print and television advertising.
The F.T.C.'s use of its compulsory powers mean that PC makers, who depend heavily on Intel, must comply with the Government requests for information -- mainly covering the years from 1994, but for some inquiries going back to 1992. If a company confers with Intel before complying with the subpoena, it must report that as well.
An Intel spokesman, Howard High, said the company would cooperate fully with the F.T.C. investigation. Intel, he added, is confident it has not violated any antitrust laws or engaged in anticompetitive practices.
Each year, thousands of Intel's managers, engineers, sales and technical support staff go through one-week training stints. One of the mandatory courses, Mr. High said, is on "current issues of antitrust and our responsibilities given our market position."
Indeed, the company even conducts simulated raids on managers' offices periodically, said Tim Jackson, author of "Inside Intel," a book about the company to be published next month by Dutton. In these mock raids, Mr. Jackson said, Intel employees pretending to be Federal agents enter a manager's office, seal it off and look for any documents that portray the company in a less-than-flattering light.
"By now," Mr. Jackson said, "Intel is one of the most careful companies in America. It's very aggressive, but it does everything possible to make sure it is just on the right side of antitrust law."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (98%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (84%); AMD (NYSE) (82%); AMD (FRA) (82%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (71%); MSI (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (71%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (71%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (65%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (55%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (55%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP; INTEL CORP; FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT INTEL CORP (98%); APPLE INC (84%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (82%); MICROSOFT CORP (71%); NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (65%); CHIPS & TECHNOLOGIES INC (63%); COVINGTON & BURLING LLP (55%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (53%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (93%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP; INTEL CORP; FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (93%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; COMPUTER CHIPS ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (94%); INVESTIGATIONS (92%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SUBPOENAS (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); ELECTRONICS (89%); COMPUTER GRAPHICS (89%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (75%); LAWYERS (74%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (71%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (70%); MULTIMEDIA SOFTWARE (70%); LEGAL SERVICES (70%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1997



502 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

I.R.S. Official Apologizes For Agency Mistreatment
The acting commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service issued an extraordinary public apology to all Americans for the mistreatment some of them have endured from agency officials.
 
 After three days of hearings before the Senate Finance Committee, the official promised that he would make the agency more responsive to public complaints and would immediately end abuses. The hearings were the first formal oversight of the tax agency ever conducted by the Finance Committee. Page A1.
 
Kodak to Cut Managers' Jobs
Eastman Kodak said it would eliminate more than 200 senior and middle management positions and dismiss at least 10 percent of its general and administrative staff. The moves are meant to stop a decline in profits. Kodak announced last week that third- quarter income would decrease and earnings for the year could be as much as 25 percent below the $4.50 a share it earned in 1996. As a result, shares of the stock have declined. D4.
 
Durable Goods Orders Increase
Record demand for electronic products sent durable goods orders jumping 2.7 percent in August, well above analysts' expectations, to nearly $186.6 billion. The Labor Department also said jobless claims fell 2,000 last week, an indication that the unemployment rate would continue to hover below 5 percent. D6.
 
New Angle in Columbia Inquiry
Some of the hospitals owned by Columbia/HCA Healthcare may have used rehabilitation units specifically created for Medicare patients as part of a financial scheme to increase reimbursement illegally, according to documents and testimony obtained by Federal prosecutors investigating the company. D2.
 
2 Advertisers Exit TV Show
Two advertisers, American Isuzu Motors and Weight Watchers International, have withdrawn from the ABC television series "Nothing Sacred," which is about a somewhat hip and self-doubting Roman Catholic priest played by Kevin Anderson. The pullouts by the advertisers come after several months of criticism from the Catholic League for Religious and Civil Rights, which called for a boycott of the show. D4.
 
Icahn Starts Film Company
The corporate raider Carl C. Icahn is investing $50 million in a film distribution company that will be run by Paul E. Cohen, an executive with extensive experience in the independent film world. Mr. Icahn recently acquired Marvel Entertainment. D5.
 
Stocks Close Lower for 3d Day
The stock market declined for the third consecutive session after interest rates in the bond market rose on reports that the economy was strengthening, lifting inflation worries. The Dow Jones industrial average, Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, the Nasdaq composite and the Russell 2000 index of smaller company stocks all fell. D6.
 
Treasury prices fell to a nearly two-month low. Bond yields rose to 6.39 percent from 6.31 percent on Wednesday. D16.
 
Dollar Falls Against the Mark
The dollar fell sharply against the mark as strong German economic data and comments from the country's central bank, the Bundesbank, suggested that the bank could soon raise interest rates. The dollar gained against the yen. D13.
 
Salomon Lease May Cost Millions
Salomon Brothers has been unlucky in real estate in the past, and might lose millions of dollars on its lease at 7 World Trade Center. The investment bank known for making huge profits buying and selling bonds agreed to be acquired by Travelers this week and plans to move into Travelers offices at 388 and 390 Greenwich Street in Manhattan. D6.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 7,848.01 down 58.70
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.39% up 0.08
The Dollar -- 120.88 yen up 0.48

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: WTW (NYSE) (66%); HCA (NYSE) (54%); 7202 (TSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS812191 DIET & WEIGHT REDUCING CENTERS (66%); SIC7299 MISCELLANEOUS PERSONAL SERVICES, NEC (66%); NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (54%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (54%); SIC8062 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (54%); SIC8011 OFFICES & CLINICS OF DOCTORS OF MEDICINE (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (68%); 

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO (72%); WEIGHT WATCHERS INTERNATIONAL INC (66%); HCA HOLDINGS INC (54%); ISUZU MOTORS LTD (53%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (68%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (89%); US DOLLAR (86%); RELIGION (86%); BOND MARKETS (84%); TAX LAW (79%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BOYCOTTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); MEDICARE (75%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); INFLATION (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (67%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (66%); INTEREST RATES (65%); CURRENCIES (64%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (63%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (63%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (62%); DIETING (50%); 

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1997



503 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1997

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: ON PRO BASKETBALL;
A Wonderful Summer For Rich and Infamous

BYLINE: By Harvey Araton 

 BODY:
The stories appeared week by week, most of them wire dispatches, not much bigger than dots on the professional sports landscape. There were lines to be drawn, though, connections to be made. When they were, it spelled out N.B.A., only N stood for naughty, B for battery, A for arrest.
By its typical expansionist standards, the National Basketball Association had a wonderful summer, with a capital W. But its stunning W.N.B.A. launch aside, the trend of players and other N.B.A. people who show up on police dockets or in embarrassing positions accelerated this off season. Drug busts, gun possession, drunken driving, sexual assault, bizarre behavior, tax evasion, wiretapping -- you name it, someone from the N.B.A. was doing it, and none of these raps could even be pinned on Dennis Rodman. 
 As if to speak directly -- though certainly not beneficially -- to the issue of life styles of the N.B.A.'s rich and infamous, its national voice, Marv Albert, pleaded guilty yesterday to assault and battery in his made-for-tabloid-television trial this week in Arlington, Va.
Also in Virginia, the league's 1996-97 rookie of the year, Allen Iverson, was arrested in early August, as the passenger in a car going 93 miles an hour in a 65-m.p.h. zone, with a gun and marijuana in the car.
Toronto's Marcus Camby was busted for marijuana and dogged by improprieties from his college career. Washington point guard Rod Strickland spent a night in jail for drunken driving and disorderly conduct. The Knicks' John Wallace reportedly assaulted the mother of his children. Portland's Jermaine O'Neal was arrested in South Carolina for, in part, cursing the police.
Prominent league referees were fired for cheating the Internal Revenue Service. The Orlando assistant coach Tree Rollins was charged with an illegal wiretap of his estranged wife's phone. The owner of the Charlotte Hornets, George Shinn, has been accused by a woman of kidnapping and sexual assault. And just in case anyone wished to argue that athletes are not accountable for messages they send to kids, the former Orlando and now Dallas forward Dennis Scott refused to sign autographs for his own campers and complained to them about his $3 million salary while rap music with obscenities in the lyrics blared from his car.
"I think the public has become somewhat used to the young athletes with the money and the problems that accompany it," said Marty Blackman of the New York sports marketing and consulting firm Blackman and Raber. "I'm not saying that it's healthy. You still turn off some people but it is not the great bolt from the sky."
Dave Checketts, the Madison Square Garden president, agreed that the country does seem more forgiving of celebrity transgressions. "Every time something negative comes up with President Clinton, his approval ratings go up," Checketts said. "I'm not sure John Kennedy could've survived what Clinton has."
The President enjoys a seemingly humming economy. The N.B.A. sells Michael Jordan, the most globally popular and seemingly untouchable sports icon of the television age. But Jordan carries around on his back an evolving N.B.A. that is getting younger, richer, rowdier. An N.B.A. in which Kevin Garnett, two years out of high school, rejects $103 million because he knows he can get more. An N.B.A. that has created an extraordinary thirst for stars but now strains to market them, sometimes simply wishing them into existence.
To an extent, N.B.A. players, coaches, owners and, yes, broadcasters, are paying a steeper price for public sins because of their league's success, visibility and hype. But Checketts understands that few have the Teflon qualities of Jordan, who -- with the assistance of a league that feared implosion -- shook off a gambling scandal several years ago as if it were John Starks.
"No matter what the public forgives, I don't think this sport is so popular that it can withstand these things at all," Checketts said, his eye on a Jordanless future. "No one wants to have a league where people believe they can go out and go 99 miles an hour, carry handguns and do drugs. I think we've really got to be able to take action."
Easier said than done when most significant contracts are long and guaranteed, where the loss of one impact player can bring a whole franchise down. Commissioner David Stern and his shoe company accomplices built an empire by marketing individuals and familiar faces. The post-Jordan future of that empire likely depends on judgments of multimillionaire 20-year-olds. For all his power, Stern is not chief of the N.B.A. police. For the most part, he can only hope that his players live cautious lives.
As for Marv Albert, he resigned from the Garden, saving Checketts -- a devout Mormon -- the trouble of firing him. Albert was fired by the NBC sports president, Dick Ebersol, partner-in-synergy with Stern. Some will ask why Albert isn't moral enough to call basketball games played by the likes of Iverson and Rodman, et al. The answer is this: He is replaceable. He is a messenger with a script, and that script becomes more crucial when too many players are ad-libbing themselves into trouble.
A messenger who embodies the wrong message is one problem that Stern can make disappear.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (90%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (55%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER INC (50%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK (50%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP (50%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN LP (50%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (90%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (55%); DALLAS, TX, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; CRIME AND CRIMINALS BASKETBALL (93%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (90%); SPORTS (89%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (89%); ARRESTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (77%); CANNABIS (77%); SHOOTINGS (75%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (75%); TAX FRAUD (74%); WIRETAPPING (74%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (74%); RAP MUSIC (73%); SPORTS MARKETING (73%); GUILTY PLEAS (72%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (72%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (71%); SPORTS AWARDS (70%); TAX LAW (69%); TAX AUTHORITIES (69%); HIP HOP CULTURE (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (57%); 

PERSON: DENNIS RODMAN (56%); MARV ALBERT (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1997



504 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1489 words

HEADLINE: In Little Rock, Clinton Warns Of Racial Split

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK 

DATELINE: LITTLE ROCK, Ark., Sept. 25

 BODY:
Speaking from the steps of Little Rock Central High School, the same steps climbed 40 years ago by nine pathbreaking black students and their paratrooper protectors, President Clinton warned Americans today of the dangers of racial separation and pleaded with them not to give up on the idea of integration.
Although he offered no programmatic solutions, Mr. Clinton used the 40th anniversary of the desegregation of Central High to deplore that black and white Americans, despite the abolition of legalized segregation, remain disturbingly isolated from each other in their schools and in their everyday lives. 
 With the nine former students sitting at his side and with an integrated assemblage of students before him, Mr. Clinton lamented that the country's schools are resegregating, that the rollback of affirmative action is denying minorities access to college, and that Americans only rarely associate with those of another race. The White House regarded the address as a major speech in what is to be a yearlong focus by Mr. Clinton on racial issues. Excerpts, page A20.
In past addresses on the subject, Mr. Clinton has emphasized that America today is more integrated than ever. Today, however, in a speech that his press secretary said was "targeted at white America," he offered a blunt critique of the country's separatist tendencies.
"Segregation is no longer the law," he said, "but too often separation is still the rule."
Today's Central High School served as a fitting metaphor for Mr. Clinton's message. While the school is statistically integrated, with a student body that is 40 percent white, its honors classes, eating places and pep rallies remain largely divided by race.
"Today, children of every race walk through the same door, but then they often walk down different halls," Mr. Clinton said. "Not only in this school, but across America, they sit in different classrooms, they eat at different tables. They even sit in different parts of the bleachers at the football game.
"Far too many communities are all white, all black, all Latino, all Asian. Indeed, too many Americans of all races have actually begun to give up on the idea of integration and the search for common ground."
Mr. Clinton was an 11-year-old student at Ramble Elementary, a segregated school in Hot Springs, Ark., 50 miles away, when the integration crisis at Central High shook the country. But despite his youth, Mr. Clinton said the black-and-white images of white students abusing and harassing their black counterparts left an indelible impression.
"We saw what was happening in our own backyard and we had to deal with it," Mr. Clinton said. "Where did we stand? What did we believe? How did we want to live? It was Little Rock that made racial equality a driving obsession in my life."
In honoring the Little Rock Nine, as the black students came to be called, Mr. Clinton said, "Like so many Americans, I can never fully repay my debt to these nine people. For with their innocence, they purchased more freedom for me, too, and for all white people."
In returning to Little Rock today, the President lent his stature and attendant national news reports to the city's efforts to move beyond its past. And by providing Mr. Clinton with a poignantly symbolic setting, Central High gave the President an ideal stage for addressing an issue that the White House considers a key component of his legacy.
Pointing to civil wars and ethnic cleansing around the world, Mr. Clinton warned that any country that does not embrace its diversity will be doomed in the next century. "All of us should embrace ethnic pride and we should revere religious conviction," he said, "but we must reject separation and isolation."
He asserted that discrimination still exists in America. "There are still people who can't get over it, who can't let it go, who can't go through the day unless they have somebody else to look down on," he said. He added: "In so many ways, we still hold ourselves back. We retreat into the comfortable enclaves of ethnic isolation. We just don't deal with people who are different from us."
Indeed, the state and local chapters of the N.A.A.C.P. boycotted today's events because they maintain that little progress has been made over the last 40 years.
On Sept. 25, 1957, in one of the seminal events of the civil rights movement, the Little Rock Nine finally passed through the majestic front doorway of Central High School under the protection of Federal troops dispatched by President Dwight D. Eisenhower. Their entrance into the school followed a tense three-week standoff created by Gov. Orval E. Faubus's decision to call out the Arkansas National Guard to prevent the court-ordered integration of the school.
When the students first tried to enter the school, on Sept. 4, they were turned away by a furious white mob that greeted them with racist epithets and threats of violence. And throughout their first year at Central, the students were assaulted, both physically and verbally.
Only one of the nine lives in Little Rock today. But the other eight returned for the commemoration, just as they had 10 years ago when Governor Clinton invited them into the Governor's Mansion where Mr. Faubus had once plotted against them.
In the dramatic denouement of today's ceremony, the nine former students, some with gray hair and beards, ambled slowly up the school's steps and through the front doors, as Mr. Clinton, Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas, and Mayor Jim Dailey of Little Rock held them open. As one of the nine, Minnijean Brown Trickey, walked across the threshold, she was overcome with emotion. Mr. Clinton and Mr. Huckabee comforted her as they ushered her through the doors.
The nine former students are Melba Patillo Beals, 55, of Sausalito, Calif., a writer; Elizabeth Eckford, 55, of Little Rock, who is unemployed and on disability; Ernest Green, 56, of Washington, D.C., a managing director of Lehman Brothers investment bank; Gloria Ray Karlmark, 54, of Vught, the Netherlands, a retired lawyer; Carlotta Walls LaNier, 55, of Englewood, Colo., a real estate broker; Terrence D. Roberts, 55, of Pasadena, Calif., the chairman of the psychology department at Antioch University; Jefferson Thomas, 55, of Columbus, Ohio, a financial specialist with the Department of Defense; Ms. Trickey, 56, of Ottawa, Ontario, a social worker; and Thelma Mothershed Wair, 56, of Belleville, Ill., a retired educator.
For Little Rock, this week's commemorative events have been thick with historical symmetry.
Among those in the crowd today was Mr. Clinton's Director of Cabinet Affairs, Thurgood Marshall Jr., whose late father served as the lawyer for the Little Rock Nine. To set the musical mood before the event today, the White House advance team mixed bobby-soxer favorites like the Beach Boys' "Be True to Your School" with rap standards like Hammer's "Too Legit to Quit."
On Monday, Will Counts, a photographer who snapped a famous picture in 1957 of a stoic Ms. Eckford being taunted by a belligerent white girl, brought his two subjects together for a tour of the new Central High visitors center, where the picture is prominently displayed.
The white student, Hazel Bryan Massery, had apologized to Ms. Eckford in a telephone conversation five years after the incident. But the two had never met until this week.
Ms. Massery said in an interview that she has been ashamed by the photograph, which she said had captured her saying "Go home nigger."
"I was an immature 15-year-old," she said. "That's the way things were. I grew up in segregated society and I thought that was the way it was and that's the way it should be." Now, she said, she wants "to be the link between the past and the future. I don't want to pass this along to another generation."
Of today's speakers, it fell to Mr. Huckabee, Arkansas' Republican Governor, to issue the strongest denunciation of his state's past sins.
"Today we come to say once and for all that what happened here 40 years ago was simply wrong," he said. "It was evil, and we renounce it. What the people did who tried to hold those nine from entering the doors of this high school is forgivable, but it is not excusable."
Mr. Huckabee said the state should celebrate its racial progress, but acknowledged that it still has a long way to go.
To those Arkansans who ask how long the state will have to deal with the 40-year-old legacy of Little Rock, he said: "Until justice is the same for every human being, whether he or she is black or white we will deal with it. Until the same rules apply to get a bank loan for every person regardless of who he or she is, we will deal with it. As long as there are whites who turn around and see a black person coming and it brings fear to their hearts, we'll deal with it. And as long as there are blacks who have resentment toward a white person, we'll deal with it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: One of the Little Rock Nine, Minnijean Brown Trickey, was overwhelmed at the threshold of Central High and was comforted by President Clinton and Gov. Mike Huckabee. Behind her is Thelma Mothershed Wair. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Daisy Bates, the N.A.A.C.P. leader who helped integrate Central High School, rose from her wheelchair yesterday to acknowledge applause. Matt Tolson, an 11th grader at Central High, and Colette Gray, a senior at the University of Arkansas, listened intently yesterday at a ceremony marking the anniversary of the integration of Central High in Little Rock. (Photographs by Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A20)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (95%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: LITTLE ROCK CENTRAL HIGH SCHOOL (ARK) AMERICA TODAY (63%); UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (59%); UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LITTLE ROCK CENTRAL HIGH SCHOOL (ARK) UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (59%); UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK (ARK); ARKANSAS; UNITED STATES (97%); ARKANSAS, USA (95%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; EQUAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES; BLACKS; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); RESTAURANTS (63%); ANNIVERSARIES (56%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1997



505 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: Public Advocate Rivals Accuse Each Other of Opportunism

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS 

 BODY:
The candidates for the office of Public Advocate met last night in a contentious debate largely highlighted by dueling charges of political opportunism.
The debate was the first between the incumbent, Mark Green, and Jules Polonetsky, the Democratic Assemblyman who was picked by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani to run on the Republican and Liberal Party lines for the city's second-highest elective office. 
 In an hourlong forum in an auditorium at St. Francis College in Brooklyn, Mr. Polonetsky repeatedly attacked the incumbent, focusing primarily on Mr. Green's interest in running for re-election for Public Advocate this year while gearing up to run for the United States Senate next year. For his part, Mr. Green sought repeatedly to portray Mr. Polonetsky as someone walking so firmly in step with Mr. Giuliani that he was incapable of being an objective, independent ombudsman over city agencies.
At one point, for example, Mr. Polonetsky suggested that Mr. Green had not met even the most basic requirement of the office, presiding over City Council meetings. "Mr. Green has been so busy focusing on his Senate race," Mr. Polonetsky said, "that his attendance at City Council meetings has plummeted to 50 percent."
Mr. Polonetsky further charged that voters would be forced to pay more than $5 million to finance a special election to fill the Public Advocate position, should Mr. Green be re-elected and then win the Senate seat next year.
But Mr. Green countered forcefully, suggesting that Mr. Polonetsky was applying a double standard.
Mr. Green pointed out that Mr. Polonetsky had won his election to the Assembly in a special election and that "if he were to win, there would be a special election to fill his seat."
The debate, which was mandatory for Public Advocate candidates, was sponsored by the city's Campaign Finance Board for candidates who accept public financing of their campaigns.
The discussion also included a third candidate, Shoghi Fret, a 21-year-old garment worker who lives in Brooklyn and is running on the Socialist Workers Party ticket.
Mr. Green defended his stewardship of the Public Advocate's office, saying that in producing a long list of studies of the inefficiencies of certain city agencies, and taking a variety of positions on public policy issues he had insured that "citizens are getting a return on their investment."
Repeatedly, Mr. Polonetsky sought to link himself with the Republican Mayor, suggesting that a vote for him would help further the policies and objectives of the Giuliani administration. "I'm running for Public Advocate because I'd like to see four more years of a growing economy," he said. "I'd like to see four more years of crime going down."
In response to virtually every question, Mr. Polonetsky responded with a variation of his attacks on Mr. Green, repeatedly accusing him of relentlessly seeking publicity and operating the office as a launching pad for a candidacy for the Senate.
"New Yorkers want to see a Public Advocate who works with the Mayor," Mr. Polonetsky said, "not someone who sees the office as an opportunity for Sunday morning press conferences."
Mr. Green, while taking an occasional political jab at Mr. Polonetsky, sought to offer an image of himself as a consumer advocate, and focused more on the litany of reports and investigations his office has undertaken since coming to office nearly four years ago.
"I have a goal in public life," Mr. Green said, while discussing his investigations of the city's Child Welfare Administration and the conditions of pay phones in the city. "It's to take on big interests to help all the working families who can't afford the big-shot lawyers. I'm their lobbyist."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PUBLIC ADVOCATE (NYC); DEBATING LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (70%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (50%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P; GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE); POLONETSKY, JULES (ASSEMBLYMAN) RUDY GIULIANI (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1997



506 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Too Big To Fail

BYLINE: By Jeffrey E. Garten; Jeffrey E. Garten, dean of the Yale School of Management, is a former Under Secretary of Commerce in the Clinton Administration and a former managing director of Lehman Brothers and the Blackstone Group.

 BODY:
The recent consolidation of firms on Wall Street accelerated on Wednesday when the Travelers Group announced its intention to pay $9 billion for Salomon Brothers.
Now the deal will be scrutinized from every angle: How will shareholders fare? How powerful will the new firm be? Who will be laid off? But one question should not be forgotten: Are these financial megamergers in the public interest? 
 It is no mystery why these behemoths are evolving. For the first time in half a century, financial deregulation is permitting banks to operate nationally and banking and securities underwriting to be done under one roof.
On top of this, a more open and brutally competitive world market requires firms with deep pockets and global reach. Mergers also save money because back office operations and investments in new technology can be consolidated.
But the rapid evolution of our financial system into a handful of conglomerates raises serious concerns. A few big banking supermarkets will simultaneously manage our savings, underwrite and distribute stock offerings, engineer and bankroll mergers and corporate restructurings, invest their own capital in big firms and in startups, and engage in speculative trading in risky options and futures contracts.
The sheer size of these firms will lead to ever more impersonal service, particularly for the average American with a checking account. Because their internal corporate cultures will be so hard to shape and manage, there will also be more opportunity for unsavory ethical practices -- a recurrent problem in the financial industry anyway.
But the most worrisome problem is that these new Goliaths will touch every American citizen and corporation, and will be so intertwined with major financial firms around the world that they will never be allowed to fail.
Knowing that they cannot go belly-up, these firms may take even more risks than they now do. On the one hand, taxpayers may be called upon to shore them up when they get into big trouble. But even if that doesn't happen, financial firms that are not disciplined by real threats of failure could create economic havoc by financing too much or too little and by exaggerating the already rising volatility in world stock markets and currencies.
None of the giants that are emerging would deliberately take foolish risks. But several factors could lead them into dangerous territory. They will be ferociously competing with one another and with their European and Asian rivals. The firms' top managements will be increasingly reliant on computers to assess investments precisely when human judgments about risk have never been more critical.
In addition, our Rube Goldberg regulatory system, composed as it is of the Federal Reserve, the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Securities and Exchange Commission, stock exchanges and numerous state authorities, may be too fragmented to keep up with the new conglomerates.
The changes deserve close public scrutiny. At a minimum, continuous Congressional oversight of the broader trends ought to be used to inform the public.
In addition, those who head up the new financial giants need to accept responsibility for much more than providing value to their own shareholders. Like it or not, these leaders, as well as their top lieutenants, also have a responsibility to the public.
The boards of these behemoths also need to be vigilant, independent and technically qualified. It would not be a bad idea, in fact, to set aside a directorship in big firms for someone who is nominated by the Fed or the S.E.C.
Mild as these measures may sound, it will be hard to persuade politicians and business leaders to take even these steps. The objective should not be to ignore market pressures but to recognize the potential risks to the public interest in the changing face of Wall Street.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Wesley Bedrosian)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (60%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MERGERS (90%); FUTURES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); BONDS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); CORPORATE CULTURE (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); CURRENCIES (71%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (70%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (70%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (67%); ETHICS (64%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (60%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (54%); 

PERSON: GARTEN, JEFFREY E

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1997



507 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: A 41-Story Tower Is to Rise Over the West Side Y.M.C.A.

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
The Y.M.C.A. of Greater New York said yesterday that it would proceed with a fiercely opposed and long-stalled plan for a 41-story condominium over its branch on West 63d Street, creating one of the tallest residential buildings to overlook Central Park.
The tower, first proposed in 1986, is to be built by two large real estate concerns, the Vornado Realty Trust and the New York development company owned by David Edelstein. Y.M.C.A. executives said they had signed a contract to sell their development rights to the two companies for $9.3 million in cash and improvements to their existing building valued at about $9 million. 
 The plan provoked immediate protests from community groups on the Upper West Side. They said they would challenge the proposal. Neighborhood groups had sued to stop the Y.M.C.A.'s 1986 plan, saying it would create too much traffic congestion, overburden municipal services and cast a long shadow over Central Park. Although the courts ultimately ruled in favor of the development plan, the Y.M.C.A. was forced to put the plan on hold when the city's real estate market sank into a deep recession at the end of the 1980's.
"If we can find a way to stop it, we will," said Olive Freud, vice president of the Committee for Environmentally Sound Development, which has challenged several large developments in the neighborhood.
Under the new proposal for the Y.M.C.A. site, the tower would be built over the former McBurney School, a five-story building that is owned by the Y.M.C.A. and adjoins the west side of its 14-story building at 5 West 63d Street. Meeting rooms, athletic areas and other Y.M.C.A. facilities would either be rebuilt or left untouched by the developers, and the ornate facade of McBurney School, which is protected as a New York City landmark, would be left intact.
The residences would begin on the sixth floor, with the eight lowest residential floors reserved as rental apartments for low-income people, senior citizens and artists.
Beginning on the building's fifteenth floor, where it would ascend over the ornate roof line and cantilever over the Y.M.C.A., it would become a luxurious building by any measure. Most, if not all, the condominiums would command sweeping views of Central Park, extending beyond the Y.M.C.A. and two smaller buildings on Central Park West that house the Ethical Culture Society and its school.
Real estate executives said the condominiums might fetch prices of almost $1,000 a square foot, or $1.2 million for a two-bedroom apartment.
Y.M.C.A. executives said they had received all necessary development approvals from the city and could begin to erect the new condominium immediately. John M. Preis, the chief financial officer of the Y.M.C.A. of Greater New York, said he expected construction to begin early next year, but he declined to be more specific.
One immediate cause for concern, according to many parents in the neighborhood, is the West Side Y.M.C.A. Co-op Nursery School, with 180 full-time students and educational programs for more than 1,000 others. Parents said they were informed of the Y.M.C.A.'s plan at a meeting on Monday night.
"They definitely didn't give parents enough notice," said Moisha Blechman, a resident of a cooperative building at 64th Street and Central Park West, who attended the meeting. "There will be noise, dust in the air and other disruption. Just being in that atmophere will create problems."
Mr. Preis said the Y.M.C.A. had retained a real estate broker, Cushman & Wakefield Inc., to find space in another nearby building for the school during construction. He also said other measures would be taken to protect children who will use the Y.M.C.A. building while construction takes place. "We know we are dealing with a bunch of 3-, 4- and 5-year-old children, and we will go the extra five miles," he said.
Others in the neighborhood said the Y.M.C.A. project may become a catalyst for the kind of tightly organized community resistance that emerged in the 1980's and has since ebbed even though several large condominiums and commercial buildings have been built or are nearing construction on nearby blocks. Indeed, the burst of building has made the blocks just west of the south end of Central Park one of the city's most active development areas.
"This is becoming Times Square North," said Arlene Simon, president of Landmark West, a community group. "People in this neighborhood don't want it to stand still, just slow down enough so we can evaluate what is going on around us."
But real estate executives said yesterday that rapidly rising real estate values, particularly along Central Park West and on the blocks around the West Side Y.M.C.A., are providing a powerful incentive for developers.
"The prices are astounding," said Clark Halstead, owner of the Halstead Property Company, who said prices in the most sought-after Central Park West buildings now exceed those along Park Avenue. He said the building planned over the Y.M.C.A. could become among the most expensive in the city.
Mr. Preis said the timing of the Y.M.C.A.'s decision was guided in part by the resurgence of property values.
Despite neighborhood protests, he said the money raised through the sale would be used mainly to expand and improve services in the West Side building.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A plan to build a 41-story condominium tower over the 14-story West Side Y.M.C.A. on West 63d Street would substantially change the skyline along Central Park West. (pg. B1); A condominium tower would begin next to the West Side Y.M.C.A., at 5 West 63d Street, and over the historic McBurney School, then cantilever over the Y.M.C.A., which would also receive improvements. (John Sotomayor/The New York Times)(pg. B6)
 
Map of Manhattan showing site of proposed tower: Condominiums would be built alongside and above the Y.M.C.A. (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VNO (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSN (YMCA); VORNADO REALTY TRUST VORNADO REALTY TRUST (72%); YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION (92%); YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSN (YMCA); VORNADO REALTY TRUST YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION (92%); YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UPPER WEST SIDE (MANHATTAN); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; CONDOMINIUMS REAL ESTATE (93%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); POOR POPULATION (65%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (60%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J; EDELSTEIN, DAVID M

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1997



508 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1433 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13
 
Canadians Feeling Bruised By Relations With America
Canadians are feeling bruised and bewildered by their ally to the south. Tough new restrictions for crossing the border have upset them. Trade conflicts over milk and magazines have rattled Ottawa. And Canadians are profoundly disappointed by the failure of the United States to sign the anti-land-mine treaty, a Canadian-led move viewed as a national accomplishment. On top of all that is a deepening conflict over Pacific salmon. "What's going on here?" asked The Globe and Mail. A1 

Albright Rebukes Israel
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright rebuked Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu for promising to build 300 new homes on the West Bank. She has repeatedly called for a "time out" from provocative actions like new construction in disputed territory. A8
 
Jewish settlers in Efrat, on the West Bank, say they cannot understand the dismay that the State Department has expressed at the pledge to add housing. Some 6,000 people live in the settlement; many commute to jobs in Jerusalem. A8
 
2 Sides Faulted for Danube Dam
Slovakia and Hungary are both at fault in the diversion of the Danube River for a hydroelectric dam, an international court in The Hague determined. The ruling's inconclusive nature disappointed environmentalists, who contend that thousands of acres of wetlands have been lost. The court held that Hungary was wrong to abandon its role in the dam project on environmental grounds, but that Slovakia had illegally diverted the river through the dam in 1992. The two countries were ordered to hold new talks. A12
 
Bosnia Funding Approved
The House and Senate passed a spending bill that would open an avenue for President Clinton to extend the stay of American troops in Bosnia beyond next June. A11
 
The Bosnian Serb president expressed confidence in the outcome of elections this autumn between herself and her opponents. The voting in November and December could be crucial to the president, Biljana Plavsic. (AP)
 
Italy's Aftermath of Terrorism 
Years of political violence in Italy in the 1970's and 80's put many terrorists behind bars. Now the country is debating whether to close the books on that era by reducing the sentences of those terrorists still in jail, 224 in all. The effort is reopening divisions in Italy's courts, politics and history books. A3
 
Australian Scandal Widens
One day after two senior ministers resigned in Australia in a financial scandal, the Prime Minister's office was swept up in the affair. Prime Minister John Howard admitted that members of his staff knew of the problem since May, though he insisted that he learned of it just this week. The dispute involved unsubstantiated travel allowances. (Agence France-Presse)
 
NATIONAL A16-25
 
Gingrich Dashes Prospects For Campaign Reform Plan
Speaker Newt Gingrich ruled out any chance that the House would pass the major bipartisan proposal for overhauling campaign finance that has been advanced in the Senate. His remarks came on a day when the Senate majority leader, Trent Lott, decided to bring up campaign finance legislation for floor debate on Friday, weeks earlier than expected. A1
 
Clinton in Integration Appeal
President Clinton, speaking from the steps of Little Rock Central High School, warned Americans of the dangers of racial separation and pleaded with them not to give up on the idea of integration. Mr. Clinton used the 40th anniversary of the desegregation of Central High to declare that black and white Americans, despite the abolition of legalized segregation, remain isolated from each other in their schools and in their everyday lives. A1
 
Marv Albert Pleads Guilty
Marv Albert ended a trial filled with embarrassing testimony about his sex life by pleading guilty to a misdemeanor count of assault and battery. Hours later, he was dismissed by two networks for which he had worked as a sportscaster. A1
 
Astronaut Bound for Mir
NASA cleared the way for the astronaut David A. Wolf to replace another American aboard the Mir space station, saying that recent problems aboard the Russian craft were no more risky than in the past. Just a few hours later, the space shuttle Atlantis took off for its rendezvous with the Mir. A25
 
Election Panel Lacks Resources
An exasperated executive of the Federal Election Commission told a Senate committee that while campaign fund-raising complaints have skyrocketed, his agency is operating in an underfinanced "triage" mode, with only two investigators able to travel into the field. A22
 
Party Rallies Around Sanchez
House Speaker Newt Gingrich suggested that evidence of voter fraud is mounting against Representative Loretta Sanchez, who defeated Robert K. Dornan in last year's California election, a charge that has outraged Democrats and prompted them to rally anew around Ms. Sanchez. A23
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-7
 
Babbitt Demands Action On Hudson River Cleanup
Secretary of the Interior Bruce Babbitt, speaking from a hilltop overlooking the Hudson River, assailed General Electric as a corporate giant bent on delaying the restoration of the river and weakening a Federal program for cleaning toxic sites. Senior officials at General Electric criticized Mr. Babbitt for refusing to meet with them. A1
 
Police Cite Murder Confessions
Three Manhattan teen-agers seized in the savage murder of Nelson G. Gross acknowledged in videotaped confessions that they abducted him in a robbery plot and promised to release him once they had their money, but decided to kill him when it occurred to them that he might identify one conspirator who had worked in his New Jersey restaurant this summer, investigators said. B1
 
SPORTS C1-9
 
Alomar's Annus Horribilis
It has been a long year for Roberto Alomar, the Baltimore Orioles' second baseman, who is one of the best players in baseball, and, perhaps one of the most reviled since an incident last year in which he spat in an umpire's face during an argument. Not only does he draw boos from fans on the road but he also been injured and has run afoul of his manager and was fined heavily. C1
 
WEEKEND E1-31; E33-46
 
'Teletubbies' Due in U.S.
A new BBC show whose target audience is children not yet able to speak, and whose characters have television screens in their tummies and speak only baby talk, has just been sold to the Public Broadcasting Service. "Teletubbies," has caused some alarm in Britain, where parents object that children under 3 should not be targets of television. E3
 
OBITUARIES A18-19
 
EDITORIAL A26-27
 
Editorials: Reforming the tax collector; the Mayor's campaign overkill; military aid in bad hands.
 
Columns: A. M. Rosenthal, Anthony Lewis.
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-19
 
I.R.S. Issues Broad Apology
The acting commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service, Michael P. Dolan, issued an extraordinary public apology to four individual taxpayers -- and, by extension, to all American taxpayers -- for severe mistreatment at the hands of agency officials and promised immediate changes to eliminate incentives for misconduct and make the I.R.S. more responsive to public complaints. At the conclusion of three days of hearings on I.R.S. abuses before the Senate Finance Committee, Mr. Dolan said that he was deeply troubled by charges leveled against the tax agency this week by taxpayers, current and former I.R.S. officials and outside watchdogs. A1
 
F.C.C. Approves New Bid Plan
Over the sharp objections of its chairman, the Federal Communications Commission approved a plan to help bidders who say they cannot pay for billions of dollars of wireless-communications licenses. D1
 
G.M.'s Shares Begin Climb
Shares of General Motors have risen about 20 percent in the past two months after treading water during most of the last three years. Some analysts predict G.M. stock will continue its climb. The stock's turnabout has come as the company's market share in the United States has improved and its labor troubles seem to have receded. D1
 
Durable Goods Orders Increase
Record demand for electronic products during August led the third consecutive monthly increase in orders for durable goods, suggesting that the economy continued to expand at a healthy pace. D6
 
Business Digest D1
 
Chronicle D20
 
Weather C9
 
Crossword E41

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); ISRAEL (92%); HUNGARY (92%); SLOVAKIA (92%); ITALY (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); 

CITY: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (74%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (72%); 

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); ISRAEL (92%); HUNGARY (92%); SLOVAKIA (92%); ITALY (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (74%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (72%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CONSTRUCTION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); SCANDALS (89%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (88%); TERRORISM (85%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); POLITICS (74%); DAM & HYDROELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); LITIGATION (72%); HISTORY (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (71%); SENTENCING (70%); JEWS & JUDAISM (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (69%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (68%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (66%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); WETLANDS (65%); LEGISLATION (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (56%); LANDMINES (56%); 

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (54%); BILL CLINTON (53%); NEWT GINGRICH (50%); JOHN HOWARD (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1997



509 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 200 words

HEADLINE: Courts Back H.M.O.'s Over Doctor Honesty

 BODY:

To the Editor:
You report that doctors at health maintenance organizations sometimes ignore contract provisions that inhibit doctor-patient communication, in fear that patients will sue them for malpractice if they do not disclose all treatment options (news article, Sept. 25). But recent court decisions give little basis for such fears.
In Rust v. Sullivan, the United States Supreme Court upheld the Government's policy of enforcing silence about abortion as a method of family planning when doctors accept Federal money. 
 In litigation against my local health department, a New York State appellate court ruled that the department "clearly had the authority to direct the manner" in which I performed my duties. This precluded presentation of my honest views, to my patients and on their medical records, which other doctors then rely upon. The court in effect promised to protect me if I followed my employer's orders.
He who pays the piper calls the tune. The courts have recognized this law of economics, so when Americans sign up for third-party payments, deceit, or at least the risk of it, is what they get.
 
ROBERT CARLEN , M.D.
Sayville, N.Y., Sept. 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (57%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (57%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); AIDS & HIV (88%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MEDICAL RECORDS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); APPEALS COURTS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); APPEALS (71%); FAMILY PLANNING (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

PERSON: LEW, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1997



510 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 159 words

HEADLINE: One to a Subway

 BODY:

To the Editor:
The New York City Transit Authority's plan to cut subway train crew size from two people to one is only half right (news article, Sept. 24). The Transit Authority has demonstrated that one individual can operate a train and open and close its doors when it is in the station. Yet reinvesting the savings in running more trains during off-peak hours and weekends could have a much bigger payoff for the city than the few dollars saved on the Transit Authority's budget. 
 A dramatic increase in evening and weekend service would encourage discretionary travel, strengthening the economy. The Transit Authority should address the full range of benefits of an attractive transit system -- fewer cars, less pollution, more stable communities -- and go beyond its narrow focus on nickel-and-dime savings.
 
GEORGE HAIKALIS
New York, Sept. 24, 1997
 
The writer is president of the Institute for Rational Urban Mobility.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR RATIONAL URBAN MOBILITY

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR RATIONAL URBAN MOBILITY

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; LABOR URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); BUDGETS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (67%); 

PERSON: HAIKALIS, GEORGE

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1997



511 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: Mid-Atlantic Seafood Industry Is Suffering

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 26

 BODY:
While scientists say a toxic microbe that has killed millions of fish in Middle Atlantic waters this year poses no threat to fish-eaters, state officials in Maryland and Virginia say the outbreak is severely hurting their seafood industry.
In Maryland, where seafood sales normally reach $400 million a year, officials said today that wholesale and retail sales had fallen as much as 75 percent in some areas and that seafood orders in restaurants had declined by 30 percent. 
 In Virginia, Bob Stolle, the state's Deputy Secretary of Commerce and Trade, said sales of the seafood industry there, typically $465 million a year, were down 33 to 50 percent.
"There's never been anything like this before," said Noreen Eberly of the Maryland Agriculture Department's seafood marketing program. "People aren't eating Maryland seafood or seafood from anywhere else, including orange roughy from New Zealand and salmon from the Atlantic Ocean. People are just avoiding seafood at every level."
Ms. Eberly estimated that at current levels of seafood consumption in Maryland, the industry was losing $15 million to $20 million a month.
The microbe, Pfiesteria piscicida, which produces red lesions on fish, was first identified as a cause of death among them in 1991, after billions of menhadens died in North Carolina's Pamlico Sound.
Studies have found that the microbe can cause skin irritations, respiratory problems, memory loss and learning impairments in humans who are exposed to infested waters. But scientists have found no evidence that eating fish from the same waters causes similar symptoms, and no evidence that the microbe has had much effect on any species except menhaden, a fish harvested not for eating but for the production of oil and fertilizer.
Nonetheless, outbreaks this year in Maryland's Pocomoke River, Chicamacomico River and King's Creek and in Virginia's Rappahannock River sounded new alarms throughout the region. As scientists rushed in to monitor waters all around the Chesapeake Bay, and as Gov. Parris N. Glendening of Maryland ordered the affected areas in his state closed, consumers began changing their eating habits.
By summer, several leading Maryland grocery chains had cleared their shelves of fish caught in Maryland. Even sales of blue crabs, a summertime favorite throughout the Middle Atlantic region, fell by as much 50 percent.
Suzie Robertson, who works for Evans Seafood in Shadyside, Md., south of Annapolis, said the business typically sold 1,000 pounds of rockfish a week for $2 a pound this time of year.
"But now," she said, "we've stopped fishing for them. No one's buying."
Lee Wilson, a fisherman from Crisfield, Md., who sells wholesale to markets in New York, Philadelphia and Baltimore, said, "All of a sudden, people are scared to death of any of it."
Governor Glendening says the economic effect of the Pfiesteria outbreak has resulted largely from a perception that all waters around the Chesapeake Bay are contaminated. While the affected areas are waterways at the southern end of the bay, fishermen plying rivers and creeks 100 miles away and farther have encountered sluggish markets for their catches.
As a result, Mr. Glendening has mounted a highly visible public relations campaign to offset what state officials and environmentalists contend is a gross overreaction. In recent weeks, he has invited reporters to cover him eating hearty seafood lunches. Last week he invited governors from five nearby states to discuss Pfiesteria issues in Annapolis. On Thursday, he asked a House subcommittee for additional Federal spending on Pfiesteria research and persuaded several chains of Maryland supermarkets to resume their purchases of fish caught in state waters.
And today Mr. Glendening said the state would add $500,000 to seafood marketing programs that would otherwise have received only $137,000 in state support for the current fiscal year.
"Most of the recovery should occur within a matter of weeks," the Governor said in an interview, referring to an improvement in seafood sales expected with consumers' usual shift to oysters and crabs this time of year and the gradual cooling of bay waters, which would force Pfiesteria into a dormant stage. But he added:
"It will not be back to 100 percent until we are totally confident we have contained the Pfiesteria and started the process of eliminating the causes. That could take another year or so."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Like countless Middle Atlantic fishermen, Larry Linton, a Virginia crabber, must cope with consumers' concern about a toxic microbe.
(Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (97%); VIRGINIA, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MARYLAND USA (73%); 

CITY: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (73%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND; VIRGINIA; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); MARYLAND, USA (97%); VIRGINIA, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MARYLAND USA (73%); ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (73%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; FISHING, COMMERCIAL; PFIESTERIA PISCICIDA; FOOD CONTAMINATION AND POISONING; SALES FISHES (91%); BACTERIA (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SEAFOOD (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (78%); POISONINGS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); AGRICULTURE (74%); RETAIL SALES (72%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); FERTILIZERS (69%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (69%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (58%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1997



512 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: Data Showing Slower Growth Helps Treasury Bonds to Rally

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Treasury bonds rallied yesterday as the Federal Reserve entered the market as a buyer and a revised figure for gross domestic product in the second quarter showed the economy growing at a slower pace than previously reported.
Trading was choppy with the shorter maturities outperforming the longer issues. By late in the day, the 30-year bond had gained 1 3/32 to 100 5/32 . The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, dropped to 6.36 percent from 6.39 percent on Thursday. 
 The Commerce Department gave its final estimate of second-quarter growth at 3.3 percent, down from the previous estimate of 3.6 percent. Another positive for the market was the University of Michigan's sentiment index for September, which showed a decrease to 106.0 from a preliminary reading of 106.8 made in midmonth.
"In a market that continues to be dominated by a healthy dose of positive sentiment, the G.D.P. report represented pretty good news because of the small downward revision," said Anthony Chan, vice president and chief economist at the Banc One Investment Advisors Corporation in Columbus, Ohio.
Reviewing the consumer index data, Mr. Chan said, "the decline of the overall figures for September from the midmonth reading was very constructive for the market." He explained that "they seemed to imply that consumption may not grow faster in the fourth quarter compared to the possibility of 3 to 3.25 percent consumption growth in the third quarter."
Doug Burtnick, a fixed-income analyst at Technical Data of Boston, noted some good flows among the shorter maturities, but said the market ran into trouble trading up from lofty price levels.
What sustained the market yesterday? Mr. Burtnick thought it might have been the purchases from small investors as they bought heavily in the short maturities, through the five-year note. "There was also some pretty good central bank buying, in the form of a coupon pass, in both the two-year and three-year maturities," he said.
In its coupon pass, the Fed bought $1.7 billion in securities maturing in two to five years, from September 1999 through August 2002. The coupon pass adds money permanently to the banking system, but does not signal any change in the central bank's monetary policy.
"Although the Fed meets on Tuesday," Mr. Chan of Banc One said, "it is quite clear that the current benign inflationary outlook is unlikely to permit policy makers to alter their current unchanged policy course.
"However, if labor markets become even firmer and inflation begins to reveal any signs of reincarnation, I would not be surprised if they moved to conduct one more insurance tightening as early as the November meeting."
The featured economic data next week will be the monthly employment report, scheduled for Friday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (55%); JPM (LSE) (55%); 8634 (TSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSUMPTION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1997



513 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Skittish About Growth in Sleepy Hollow

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GLABERSON

DATELINE: SLEEPY HOLLOW, N.Y., Sept. 26

 BODY:
General Motors has proposed transforming the hulking automobile factory that was the clanging heart of North Tarrytown into a luxurious development that could be the humming new center of Sleepy Hollow.
Last week the auto company unveiled an ambitious plan to build a mini-village on the site of its closed factory, one of the largest parcels of land slated for development along the Hudson. But the village that changed its name last year as part of an effort to change its blue-collar image is saying the automaker's glittery plan may be too ambitious. 
 "I think General Motors came in with the deluxe luxury model," the Mayor, Sean Treacy, said today, "and we're more of a community looking for a midsize."
Planners hired by the automaker described for village officials a new riverfront community with a marina, apartment buildings, stores and perhaps a museum and a hotel. The planners from Cooper, Robertson & Partners, the Manhattan architectural firm that designed the master plan for Battery Park City, even described dredging out a new inlet, creating, in effect, an island that could be a prime location for luxury homes.
General Motors said the plan was merely a "conceptual' outline, intended as a blueprint that could be followed by the automaker itself or by a developer who might ultimately buy the 96-acre property.
Officials here said they were dazed by the magnitude of the carmaker's proposal: 1,900 residential units on the site just north of the Tappan Zee Bridge. By some calculations, that could add 4,000 people to a village with a current population of just 8,200, requiring new schools, roads, sewers and, most importantly, turning a small community into a bigger one almost overnight.
Some people said the issue was a classic collision between a desire for development that could bring much-needed dollars and an equally strong desire to preserve the small-town feeling that is a source of pride for many Hudson River towns.
"It would be a sociological jolt to the community," said Patrick Munroe, one of the village trustees who attended a recent presentation by General Motors. "It was like saying, 'O.K., folks, we used to be a little town with little streets and Mom and Pop stores on Beekman Avenue, but now: Get out of the way.' "
Several trustees said that they expected strong community resistance. The village could impose zoning restrictions that would limit development on the site, but officials said the plans were too premature for such measures. A spokeswoman for General Motors, Marcia McGee, said the proposal would conform to current zoning. She added that because of the high cost of construction at the site, high population density was necessary because "a developer has to make some money."
Experts on development said anxiety here about the density of the proposed community reflected a widespread concern in the region about how much large communities outside New York City can grow before they lose their character.
H. Claude Shostal, president of the Regional Plan Association, which studies the 31-county metropolitan area, said such concerns were particularly important in the Hudson Valley.
"The one thing I think the Hudson Valley has to be very careful about is destroying the thing that makes it special, which is the quality of life: open space, access to the river, air and water quality."
At the same time, Mr. Shostal said, the Regional Plan Association says that development is appropriate for places that are, like the General Motors site, in the midst of existing communities with easy access to mass transportation. But the question officials must ask, he said, is: How much development is enough?
Some community leaders in Westchester County said they worried that by focusing so intensely on the density issue, village officials were forfeiting a chance to help shape one of the most significant open sites in the metropolitan area.
John H. Dobkin, president of Historic Hudson Valley, a foundation that runs six historic sites including Philipsburg Manor in Sleepy Hollow, said the critical questions for the New York region involved issues that were likely to get lost, like the creation of developments that stimulate economic growth.
"It is an extraordinary opportunity," Mr. Dobkin said. "You have 96 acres and what are you going to do with it? It not a once-in-a-lifetime challenge, it's a once-in-a-millennium challenge."
On Sleepy Hollow's Beekman Avenue today, there was anxiety as well as anticipation. For example, Hugh Casey, owner of Casey's Tarry Inn, said he thought General Motors was suggesting bringing in too many new residents. But some newcomers would be good for the village, he said. "The type of people they are talking about bringing in," he said, "are the type that don't cook home. They'll come out and have a drink and have dinner."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A General Motors plant on the Hudson in Sleepy Hollow, formerly North Tarrytown, closed last year. Now Mayor Sean Treacy, above, and others weigh the impact development would have on the site and village itself. (Susan Farley for The New York Times)
 
Map of Westchester highlighting site of former factory: Sleepy Hollow may sculpt its own future with land on the river.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available AUTOMOBILE MFG (93%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); ZONING (89%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); POPULATION DENSITY (78%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); MAYORS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); SOCIOLOGY (69%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (68%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (53%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1997



514 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: Data Show Economy Grew at 3.3% Pace in Spring

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 26

 BODY:
The economy grew at a 3.3 percent annual pace during the spring, new data showed today, somewhat slower than was previously thought but still faster than what most analysts consider the economy's speed limit, above which inflation would revive.
Still, despite a further pickup in economic growth over the summer, economists and Wall Street analysts say they expect Federal Reserve policy makers to leave interest rates unchanged when they meet on Tuesday. The absence of inflationary pressures in price data and the political climate have kept the Fed from trying to slow the economy's vibrant growth. Such inaction, however, could eventually chip away at the Fed's hard-won credibility as an inflation fighter. 
 Today's Commerce Department report also showed that final sales, adjusted for inflation and excluding the effects of inventory changes, rose 2.5 percent in the April-June period. But several analysts said the quarter just ending could show a rise of 4 percent.
"This is making the Fed very nervous," said James E. Annable, chief economist at the First National Bank of Chicago-NBD. "We're setting up a very, very rapid rebound in total spending."
The central bank, however, can point to nothing in price data at any stage of production or distribution to justify tightening monetary policy, thereby raising rates, to dampen growth.
"The Fed is looking at the lowest inflation rates in more than 30 years," observed John Ryding, senior economist at Bear, Stearns in New York.
Indeed, never in the postwar period has inflation been decelerating this far into a business expansion. The current one is more than six years old.
Without evidence of revived inflation, analysts say, the Fed finds itself forced to remain on the sidelines, at least for the time being, hoping that a big buildup of inventories during the first half of the year will help the economy slow down on its own.
Politically, "there's just no taste for a sustained pre-emptive move," said Mr. Annable, in contrast to 1994 when the Fed doubled the overnight interest rate it largely controls to 6 percent from 3 percent. After subsequent trims, the Fed raised the rate one-quarter point in March, to the current target of 5.5 percent, in what Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, called a form of insurance against a buildup of inflationary pressures.
Although the Fed is not expected to take any action on Tuesday -- and there has been no signal of any to the financial markets -- analysts say the meeting will most likely be spirited. Underlying the debate will be how to prepare for the next meeting on Nov. 12, when continued rapid growth might force the Fed's hand. So far, an unemployment rate of less than 5 percent and two increases in the minimum wage have not significantly driven up pay, which is the dominant business cost.
"Most regions are experiencing tight labor markets, recruiting difficulties or growing labor shortages," a survey of the Fed's 12 districts prepared for Tuesday's meeting found. "Two-thirds of the districts, however, report that these supply-demand imbalances are not translating into generally higher wages."
Some members of the Fed policy-making group, the Federal Open Market Committee, generally those based outside Washington, are expected to argue for higher rates based on traditional assumptions about a trade-off in which more jobs come at the cost of higher inflation.
Others, including Mr. Greenspan, have increasingly accepted the view that the economy's "speed limit" has increased and that inflation can remain in check at a growth pace higher than the presumed 2 percent to 2.5 percent.
Regarding the accepted limit, "there's a lot of reasons to think that could be in error," said Lacy H. Hunt, an economist with Hoisington Investment Management in Austin, Tex.
He said that both the labor force, swelling with former welfare recipients, and productivity, the other determinant of the economy's speed limit, could combine to produce a noninflationary growth rate of "maybe 3, even 3 1/2 percent."
"There needs to be a smoking gun" of inflation for the Fed to tighten policy, Mr. Hunt said.
Today's Commerce Department report was its second revision of gross domestic product for the April-June quarter. Its first estimate of 2.2 percent in July was raised to 3.6 percent in August before today's revision to 3.3 percent.
The largest revised change was to exports of goods, the report showed, while real final sales were reduced to their 2.5 percent rate of increase from 2.8 percent at the preceding tally.
While the 3.3 percent pace of the spring G.D.P. rise was below the 4.9 percent of January through March, it was not the lull for which policy makers had hoped.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Real Economic Growth"
Annual rate of change in the value of the gross domestic product, based on seasonally and inflation-adjusted figures for the quarter. Chart shows annual rate of change in the value of the gross domestic product, based on seasonally and inflation-adjusted figures for the quarter. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (69%); JPM (LSE) (69%); 8634 (TSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (69%); FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO HEIGHTS (55%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT; SALES; PRODUCTION ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); SPEED LIMITS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); MONETARY POLICY (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (61%); MINIMUM WAGE (60%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1997



515 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

British Parts Supplier Gets $2 Billion Federal-Mogul Bid
Federal-Mogul, an ailing American auto parts maker now showing signs of recovery, said it had offered about $2 billion in cash for T & N, a British auto supplier. The deal brought praise from Wall Street, which bid up Federal-Mogul shares by $3.75, to $37.25. T & N shares also rose in London trading.
 
 The move is part of a consolidation trend in auto parts. Indeed, in another deal, the Blackstone Capital Partners II Merchant Banking Fund agreed to buy a controlling stake in American Axle and Manufacturing for about $650 million. [Page D2.]
 
Stocks Rise on Revised G.D.P.
A revised Government estimate of second-quarter gross domestic product showing that economic growth was slower than expected fueled a rise in stocks, pushing broad market indexes up. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 74.17 points, to 7,922.18. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock gained 7.31 points, to 945.22, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 3.35 points, to 1,682.24. [D4.]
 
Treasury bonds rallied as the Federal Reserve entered the market as a buyer. The yield on the 30-year bond dropped to 6.36 percent, from 6.39 percent on Thursday. [D2.]
 
Union Head Linked to Schemes
Aides to Ron Carey, president of the teamsters union, have told Federal investigators that he had general knowledge of fraudulent schemes in which the union donated money to liberal groups and in exchange donors to those groups contributed to his campaign, officials involved in the investigation said. Mr. Carey has denied that he knew about or participated in such schemes to swap contributions, saying that he is the victim of his aides' lawbreaking. [A1.]
 
S.E.C. Charges Financial Adviser
School districts across Pennsylvania face the loss of more than $70 million that they invested with a financial adviser who secretly ran up big trading losses, Federal regulators said. The districts, about 75 of them, had invested more than $233 million with the adviser, Devon Capital Management, which is run by John Gardner Black from Tyrone, Pa., according to a complaint filed in Federal district court in Pittsburgh by the Securities and Exchange Commission. [A16.]
 
Anti-Dumping Duties Supported
The International Trade Commission voted 3 to 0 to back the imposition of punitive anti-dumping duties against the Vector supercomputers produced by NEC and other Japanese manufacturers. The commission, an independent trade panel, found that Cray Research had been financially injured by the pricing practices of Japan's supercomputer producers. The commission's ruling upheld anti-dumping tariffs of up to 450 percent against NEC, which the Commerce Department imposed in August. [D3.]
 
China's President Meets With Rubin
In his first meeting with a senior American official since consolidating his power as China's leader, President Jiang Zemin told Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin that he was irreversibly committed to the wide-ranging economic changes already under way. But Mr. Rubin said Mr. Jiang made clear that China would make major moves to open its markets only "as economic conditions improve, and at a pace that China feels it can handle." [A4.]
 
G.M. Proposal Stuns Town
General Motors, which closed its automobile plant in Sleepy Hollow, N.Y., last year, has returned with a plan to develop the Hudson River site into a new riverfront community with a marina, apartment buildings, stores, perhaps a museum and hotel -- even creation of an island for luxury homes. There is general agreement that the G.M. plan would be a huge change for the village. And that is just the problem. [B5.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 7,922.18 up 74.17
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.36% down 0.03
The Dollar -- 121.25 yen up 0.37

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: FDML (NASDAQ) (92%); AXL (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (92%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (89%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL-MOGUL CORP (92%); AMERICAN AXLE & MANUFACTURING HOLDINGS INC (90%); DEVON CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (89%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STOCK INDEXES (93%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (90%); BONDS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (88%); SECURITIES LAW (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (86%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (85%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); TRENDS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (70%); MERCHANT BANKING (70%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); LIBERALISM (69%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (68%); SUPERCOMPUTERS (64%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (62%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); 

PERSON: RON CAREY (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1997



516 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Market Reform Irreversible, Chinese Leader Tells U.S.

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 26

 BODY:
In his first meeting with a senior American official since consolidating his power as China's leader, President Jiang Zemin told Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin today that he was irreversibly committed to the wide-ranging economic reforms already under way here.
At the same time, Mr. Rubin said that during his hourlong session inside the ornate, lakeside compound where China's leadership lives and works, Mr. Jiang made clear that China would make major moves to open its markets only "as economic conditions improve, and at a pace that China feels it can handle." 
 Mr. Rubin's meeting with Mr. Jiang was primarily intended to set the tone for the Chinese leader's state visit to Washington late next month, the first by a Chinese leader in a dozen years. American officials described Mr. Jiang, normally a dour leader who carefully sticks to his briefing notes, as "slightly ebullient" after his successes at the 15th Communist Party Congress, which concluded last week.
During that session, the party endorsed many of the market-oriented changes already under way throughout the country. Mr. Jiang also managed to ease out several of his competitors in the top ranks of the country's leadership, replacing several military officials with a younger generation of non-military leaders whom he described today as more attuned to the imperatives of economic reform.
Mr. Rubin's meeting today came at the conclusion of a weeklong tour of Hong Kong and China, during which he assessed the prospects and pace of China's move toward privatizing its lumbering, state-owned enterprises and overhauling its ailing financial infrastructure.
Mr. Rubin said today that his meetings with a range of Chinese officials, especially with Mr. Jiang, "gave me a sense that there is a real vision of the direction the country has to move."
A senior Western diplomat based here said today that Mr. Jiang appears to view his trip to Washington as the capstone of a victorious year, one in which he presided over the return of Hong Kong to Chinese control and then tightened his control over the Communist Party. "He views this as almost a second normalization of relations," the diplomat said of the visit, a reference to President Nixon's trip to China that opened diplomatic relations between the two countries.
The content of Mr. Rubin's meetings here underscored how the Clinton Administration is trying to change the nature of its interchanges with China -- away from sporadic, angry exchanges about human rights and arms proliferation, and toward regular consultations that focus chiefly on how the world's biggest industrial economy and its biggest developing economy should interact.
"What struck me," Mr. Rubin said this evening, "is that they were willing for the first time to have truly informal, open, candid discussions" that included frank admissions of the country's biggest economic headaches.
The first among those problems, he said, is finding a way to streamline government-owned enterprises without setting off large-scale unemployment that could lead to political unrest. A second and related problem is stabilizing the country's teetering banking system, which has lent more money to the government-run enterprises than they have the revenues to repay.
Before his trip, Mr. Rubin said he hoped to use his meetings with China's economic leadership to establish the kind of rapport between mid-level American and Chinese financial officials that Washington has long had with Tokyo, and recently with Moscow. Today he said he thought that kind of trust was starting.
"The fact that we were able to explore these issues in detail, rather than just reading pieces of paper to each other, is perhaps the most important change," Mr. Rubin, a former investment banker who has worked with many troubled enterprises, said tonight. "It suggests that we're moving to a more mature, stable relationship."
Mr. Rubin also delivered a letter from President Clinton to Mr. Jiang about the coming summit meeting, which he declined to describe in detail. But other American officials said that as Mr. Jiang's trip approaches, the two countries are scrambling to put together a string of modest accomplishments that can be announced in Washington.
One may be a declaration by the Clinton Administration next month that China is no longer contributing to the spread of nuclear weapons. That would clear the way for American companies to resume the export of nuclear energy technology here. Westinghouse is considered the lead contender for contracts in excess of $2 billion to build nuclear power plants, which China desperately needs to keep up with its growing demand for electricity.
Officials say there may also be some progress on Chinese conventional arms exports to the Middle East, and probably some modest gesture in the human rights arena. In the past China has released a dissident or two from prison before such meetings.
But Administration officials conceded this week that they are unlikely to make any progress on their biggest economic initiative with China: getting it to agree to broad market openings in return for its admission to the World Trade Organization, the club of trading nations.
Today China's Finance Minister, Liu Zhongli, said his country was "willing to join the W.T.O." but not "if the requirements are not suitable for the Chinese situation, for a developing country."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (54%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: HONG KONG & CHINA GAS CO LTD (54%); HONG KONG & CHINA GAS CO LTD (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (67%); TRENDS (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (64%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (62%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; JIANG ZEMIN (PRES); RUBIN, ROBERT E (SEC) RICHARD NIXON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1997



517 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1334 words

HEADLINE: Moscow Circus Struggles in Orlando

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO 

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla., Sept. 21

 BODY:
As part of the Moscow Circus, Svetlana Nugzarov and her family performed daring acrobatics on galloping stallions to packed houses all over the world, including in this city. But upon their return to Orlando this year, the Nugzarovs received standing ovations from as few as 50 people.
Poor ticket sales were just the beginning of a dispiriting American run for a renowned Russian circus that moved here envisioning a permanent one. Instead, the performers went out of business within weeks, got evicted from their condos for failing to pay rent and have been forced to stand guard by their 120-foot tent to keep creditors from hauling it away. 
 The performers hope to carry on. But their plight raises the question of whether a one-ring show with clowns, jugglers and dancing bears stands a chance in Orlando's glitzy fantasy world of multimillion-dollar resorts, state-of-the-art computer simulation, water parks disguised as ski resorts and not one, but two, simulated Manhattan streetscapes. Can artistry and tradition compete in the high-tech marketplace of "Terminator 2" and "Back to the Future," or even Shamu the killer whale and Mickey the make-believe mouse?
"It's hard to believe a program like this couldn't succeed," Mrs. Nugzarov, who has been with the Moscow Circus for 45 years, said through an interpreter. "We'd never failed before."
The original troupe of 85 performers, 11 horses, 20 dogs, 2 leopards and 6 brown bears is dwindling as some of the acts, such as the 14-member Doveiko aerialists, have accepted job offers in Las Vegas and elsewhere. But most of the circus is hanging on while looking for new investors to raise their tent again, blaming their false start on inadequate promotion.
Orlando city officials say that with 35 million tourists a year who on average visit for five days or longer, the Moscow Circus could find a niche even among audiences weaned on special effects, and in an entertainment capital with leviathans like Disney World and Universal Studios.
"There are plenty of smaller entertainment operators that do very well and marketing is key for them," Mayor Glenda Hood said. "They could do well because it's an outstanding circus."
That possibility is what keeps the 50 hold-out performers from running away to join other circuses. It took about $400,000 just to bring them and their equipment to the United States, Moscow Circus members say. Most left circus jobs in Russia to come together for the new Orlando venture and work for twice or more their salary.
All that and pride, they say, has made them wait.
"This is about a great circus, that's what we're trying to preserve," said Sergei Tolstikhin, the circus ringmaster and a linguist who now mostly performs as interpreter for the non-English-speaking company. "The idea of having a circus here is very appealing because we know something beautiful could happen."
The Russians, who came here last February, wanted to establish the first United States franchise of the Moscow Circus, a prestigious circus known for stars like the Flying Cranes and for worldwide touring, including shows at venues such as Radio City Music Hall and Madison Square Garden in New York City. The 11 acts for the Orlando production were gathered from circuses in the former Soviet Union, where the circus is a centuries-old art form and a state-run institution. Unlike in the United States, where most circuses are touring enterprises, Russian circuses usually operate out of permanent buildings in major cities.
Difficult economic times at home since the collapse of the Soviet Union, however, have made scores of circus performers from the former Soviet Republics head West, and today many of them are found in American shows, like Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey, and stage productions, like those in Las Vegas casino hotels. But after falling on hard times at home, the Moscow Circus fell on harder times in Orlando.
An original opening date of October 1996 was delayed to the following March, meaning the circus missed the winter tourist season, Mr. Tolstikhin said. Finally able to open last March, the circus was forced to close after seven weeks last May because of poor attendance -- once they had to cancel a performance when only 10 people showed up in a tent with a seating capacity of 1,600. Since then things have been so dire that a Christian charity, thinking the performers were starving, sent them food when they got in trouble with neighbors for fishing carp out of a landscaping pond.
Two major investors, DAJ Guani Investors and Burkett Contracting Corp., both of Central Florida, are now suing the New York promoter who brought the circus here, Alex Valdez and his First Capital Investment Group, for breach of contract. The investors, who said their contract called for at least six months of performances, with two daily shows, want to recoup an investment of $307,800.
The investors also name in their suit Rasul Abdullaev, the Moscow Circus producer who assembled the troupe, over ownership of assets such as bleachers, lights and the circus tent. Twice, a crane has been sent to take the red and blue striped tent now plopped down on the asphalt behind the bear mouth facade of the Moscow Circus site here, but both times the performers have managed to hold on to it, their lawyer said.
"They put their bodies under the wheels of the crane to stop it," said Scott E. Siverson, a lawyer for Orlando tour operator Jorge C. Aznar, an investor who is paying the performers' housing in a hotel while trying to get it going again.
Calls to Burkett Contracting Corporation were not returned and Mr. Valdez could not be reached for comment. But Ralph Hadley, a lawyer for DAJ Guani Investors, said he empathized with the circus performers, calling them "victims just like my clients are."
The Moscow Circus performers say they are owed more than $250,000 in wages after being abandoned by their American sponsors. Their travails have been compounded by negative publicity after Florida regulators last June said they would seize the circus bears if the animals were not moved out of their small traveling cages, and the landlord who evicted them last July sued, claiming to be owed more than $37,000 in back rent. Neighbors also accused some of the Russians of unruly behavior, including fishing in the pond.
But the performers have been able to stay here partly because of the support of many fans here and all over the United States, Mr. Siverson said, including people who have donated transportation, housing for the animals and money. What they need the most, however, is an investment of about $500,000 to start over, Mr. Tolstikhin said.
While they wait, performers like Vladimir Dovgan and Anatoliy Yeni, "the extraordinary balancing duo," Margulim, the clown, and the Nugzarovs, including Mrs. Nugzarov, her husband, Tamerlan, and two sons, spend days trying to keep fit, exercising the animals and working the telephones from a room in Mr. Siverson's office to raise money.
The circus performers will probably make a decision about their fate by next month.
"If nothing happens within a month maybe the time has come to express my appreciation to the actors and pack up and go to other places," said Mr. Abdullaev, a former builder of circus tents who moved here with his wife and two children.
Mrs. Nugzarov said her family and the 11 other performers in the horsemanship act will probably seek the help of the Russian state circus company to return home, where they last worked with the Old Moscow Circus. She said that they have received offers from American circuses but that the constant traveling required would not allow them enough time to rehearse and maintain their artistic quality.
She predicted a sad homecoming.
"Every time we came back to Moscow we were happy and proud," said Mrs. Nugzarov, who has performed for audiences of 60,000 people. "Now it's going to be difficult. But we can't blame ourselves for what's happened here."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Vyacheslav Zolkin and one of the Russian brown bears that he and his daughter lead in a juggling and dancing act for the Moscow Circus. The animals are groomed and trained daily while the circus reorganizes. Sergei Tolstikhin, the ringmaster and the interpreter for the non-English-speaking company. (Photographs by Andrew Itkoff for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (97%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (97%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: MOSCOW CIRCUS

ORGANIZATION: MOSCOW CIRCUS

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO (FLA); UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); FLORIDA, USA (97%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (97%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: CIRCUSES ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); HORSES (78%); RESORTS (78%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (77%); CITIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); MODELING & SIMULATION (73%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (73%); TICKET SALES (72%); SKIING (71%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); WATER PARKS (68%); MARINE MAMMALS (67%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (56%); 

PERSON: NAVARRO, MIREYA MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1997



518 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Overhaul of Public Housing Is Voted to Aid Working Poor

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 26

 BODY:
The Senate voted today to revamp public housing across the nation by making room for a greater number of the working poor and retooling rent policies that some say favor the unemployed.
The legislation, which passed with little controversy on a voice vote, would allow for a greater income mix of tenants, make it easier for low- and moderate-income families to buy homes and give local authorities greater control over rules and regulations. 
 It would also encourage police officers to move into public housing and bar most convicted felons from living in housing projects.
"The reform provisions contained in this bill will greatly improve the quality of life of the families residing in public and assisted housing and will help to insure the long-term viability of our nation's existing stock of affordable housing," said Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, the chairman of the Commitee on Banking, which handled the legislation.
The House passed its version of the bill in May, framing it as a long-overdue step toward making public housing more livable and less dangerous, and encouraging welfare recipients in housing projects to get jobs. The two chambers' bills are similar, but the Senate bill is closer to the Clinton Administration's more modest proposal.
Republicans in the Senate have spent the last few months addressing Democratic concerns over several elements in the House bill. With most of the contentious issues resolved, the Senate quickly moved forward today with a unanimous consent agreement.
One substantial difference between the two bills remains, and that difference, dealing with the landmark Roosevelt-era housing law, helped kill a housing bill last year in House-Senate conference negotiations. This year, the House voted to repeal the 1937 law while the Senate voted to amend it, arguing that getting rid of it would create a regulatory nightmare.
In addition, the Senate bill would require that residents of public housing pay no more than 30 percent of their income toward rent. Under current rules, a tenant's rent rises with income, a practice criticized as discouraging public housing residents from getting off welfare. The House version of the bill allows tenants to opt for a flat-rate rent.
There are other fundamental differences between the House and Senate bill as well, many of which center on how far government should go in forcing the needy off welfare and compelling them to repay the community.
The House legislation, for example, would require that public housing tenants who are unemployed perform eight hours of community service a month, or, in most cases, risk eviction, which some House Democrats likened to a form of slavery. The Senate version has no such requirement.
The Senate also took a more moderate approach than the House in determining how many units to make available to the working poor -- tenants who hold jobs and earn as much as 80 percent of an area's median income. But an aide in the House Committee on Banking and Financial Services said the numbers will likely change as the Senate and House meet to broker a compromise.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PUBLIC HOUSING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; POLICE; CRIME AND CRIMINALS PUBLIC HOUSING (93%); LEGISLATION (91%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (70%); FELONIES (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (65%); SLAVERY (60%); COMMUNITY SERVICE SENTENCING (60%); 

PERSON: ALVAREZ, LIZETTE HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1997



519 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: About New York;
Youthful Foes Go Toe to Toe With Nike

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

 BODY:
ADRIANE CAMPO could wear a different Nike sneaker for each day of the week. She doesn't belong to any sports teams, she just likes to look good. "Mine glow," she said, showing off a pair of Air Max shoes she received a few weeks ago. "These aren't even the latest ones. This is old." Perhaps a trip to Nike Town is in order for a fashion fix?
"You know, I never been to Nike Town," she said. "They say it's a neat-looking store." 
 It may not look that neat today if she does manage to get the day off from her after school job and visit the Sultanate of Swoosh at Fifth Avenue and 57th Street. Dozens of young people from 11 settlement houses around the city are planning to dump their old Nikes at the store to protest what they say is the shoe company's double exploitation of the poor. They are part of a growing movement that has criticized Nike for underpaying workers in Asian factories -- about $3 a day in Indonesia, for example -- while charging style-setting teen-agers upward of $100 for the shoes.
Adriane and eight teen-age friends got together last Tuesday at the Forest Hills Community House in Queens, where several youth workers tried to enlist them in the protest.
"Nike is making billions of dollars in America off you guys," said Mike Gitelson, a social worker who helped start the protest. "Let's get this straight, Nike is doing nothing illegal. For us, it is a moral question. You can't make that much money off us and refuse to give your people enough money to live on."
While the profile of the campaign is not as high as the ones that won concessions from the Gap or Kathie Lee Gifford, labor advocates involved in those protests said they expected to turn their attention to the footwear company soon.
"A lot of spontaneous activity has sprung up around Nike all over the place," said the Rev. David Dyson, a Brooklyn minister in a clergy group that reached a deal with the Gap. "We are going to be drawn into this just by the inertia of the thing."
VADA MANAGER, a spokesman for Nike, said many of the complaints against the company were based on inaccurate information being circulated on the Internet. He also faulted some "fringe groups" for lying about labor conditions at Nike's factories, which he said have passed muster during audits, including a recent review byAndrew Young, the former Ambassador to the United Nations.
But even Mr. Young's report said Nike could do more. Maybe that is why a few weeks ago Mr. Manager visited the Edenwald-Gun Hill Neighborhood Center, where the settlement house protest began.
"Nobody has done more than Nike in terms of leadership," he said. "We took the train to the South Bronx."
Maybe he was caught up in thinking about global markets, since the Edenwald Center is half a mile from the Bronx-Westchester County line. Whatever the case, they set him straight when he arrived.
"I grew up in Alabama," said Jessie Collins, the center's director. "We worked for $2 a day picking cotton. That was at a time when people said they couldn't pay them more because the cotton economy won't let them do this. Or, if you don't want to work for $2 a day you don't have to work. We had no choice. I'm sure the same analogy goes for the people in Indonesia."
A GLANCE at local markets was enough to persuade Dulani Blake to give up on Nike. The $150 for the right style in his size was enough for one or two weeks worth of groceries. Or several months' salary for an Indonesian worker.
"Nike goes to different countries so people can work for cheap," he said. "They know the minimum wage here goes up."
"I told my friends about that and they said they didn't care," Adriane said. "I have friends who spent two weeks of paychecks to buy Nikes."
By evening's end, she seemed intent on not buying any more Nikes. In fact, she wanted to part with some.
"Give them the stinky old nasty Nikes," she said. "What do we say to them?"
Justify the cost of the shoes and the labor, said Leo Johnson, a youth worker from Edenwald. The next step, he said, would be to concentrate on stores, where Nikes dominate the market with a vast selection of styles and colors.
"You got to use the lingo when you're talking about that," Mr. Johnson said. "Yo, dude, you're being suckered if you pay $100 for a sneaker that costs $5 to make. If somebody did that to you on the block, you know where it's going."
"Toe to toe," said a teen-ager.
"This is the toe to toe of the future," Mr. Johnson said. The sneakers are coming off.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (96%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (96%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (96%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); INDONESIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NIKE INC (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); INDONESIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available FOOTWEAR (90%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); FOOTWEAR MFG (77%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (74%); SPORTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (66%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (65%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: SIR GEORGE YOUNG (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1997



520 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1419 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-6
 
U.S. and Russia Adjust A Major Arms Treaty
The United States signed a package of arms control agreements with Russia that pushed back by five years one of the major treaties of the cold war, Start 2, but it could clear the way for cuts in nuclear weapons. Accords signed with Belarus, Kazakstan and Ukraine and Russia also modified a 1972 arms treaty. A1 

Yeltsin Signs New Religion Bill
Ignoring Western complaints, President Boris Yeltsin signed a new law that protects the Russian Orthodox Church from competition with other Christian faiths. A1
 
Two Earthquakes Ravage Italy
Two earthquakes hit central Italy, killing at least 10 people, toppling houses and damaging the 13th-century frescoes on the walls and ceiling of the Basilica of St. Francis of Assisi, a paradigm of Renaissace art. A1
 
Indonesia Crash Kills 234
An Indonesian Airbus A300 carrying 234 people from Jakarta to the island of Sumatra crashed, and rescue workers said no one on board survived. Witnesses said Garuda Airline flight 152 crashed after hitting a tree in a region plagued by poor visibility from forest fires. A6
 
Italy Convicts Top Mafia Boss
After hearing 269 witnesses in two and a half years, a court in Sicily convicted and sentenced Salvatore Riina, the "boss of bosses" of the island's Mafia, and 23 others to life sentences for their role in the 1992 execution-style killing of Giovanni Falcone, the prosecutor whose work and death made him the hero of Italy's war against organized crime. A6
 
Rubin Meets China's Leader
Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin became the first senior American official to meet with President Jiang Zemin of China since he consolidated his power as China's leader. Mr. Jiang told Mr. Rubin that he was committed to the broad economic reforms already under way in China, but that the country would open its markets at a pace determined by improving economic conditions. A4
 
Resolution Seen in Saudi Case
A senior Saudi official said he expected the controversy over the trial and sentencing of two British nurses charged with the murder of an Australian colleague in Dhahran last December to be resolved without the execution or flogging ordered by an Islamic religious court. He said the fact that the crime did not involve any Saudis might help his country let the British and Australians resolve the matter between themselves. A3
 
Israel Plans More Settlements
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel said he would continue building in the Jewish enclaves in the West Bank and Gaza to accommodate natural population growth. Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright had asked him to freeze such settlements until relations with Palestinians improved. A3
 
NATIONAL A7-10, A16
 
Senate Debates the Limits Of Campaign-Finance Laws
The Senate opened debate on rewriting the country's campaign-finance laws, arguing about whether there was too much or too little money in the system now and about what kind of changes could be made without violating the First Amendment. A1
 
Hours before he was the big draw at a $600,000 fund-raising dinner for the Democratic Party, President Clinton castigated politicians who are not sincere about curbing the influence of money in politics. A8
 
Against the backdrop of mounting fund-raising scandals, the Democratic National Committee opened a two-day meeting in Washington deep in debt and searching for ways to get its message out -- but at a much lower cost than before. A9
 
Aides Link Carey to Scheme
Aides to Ron Carey, president of the teamsters union, have told Federal prosecutors and a Federal election overseer that he had general knowledge of a fraudulent scheme in which union money was donated to several liberal groups that, in exchange, had their donors contribute to his campaign, officials involved in the investigation said. A1
 
Bill Would Aid Immigrants
Illegal immigrants would get a three-week reprieve to file paperwork in their fight to stay in the United States under legislation the House plans to consider next week. Immigrants across the nation have been concerned about the expiration next Tuesday of a measure that has permitted illegal immigrants to file for legal status in the United States instead of at consulates abroad. A9
 
Schools Bilked of Millions
School districts across Pennsylvania face the loss of more than $70 million that they had invested with a financial adviser who secretly ran up big trading losses, Federal regulators said. A16
 
Father Convicted in Murder
A state jury in Decatur, Ga., convicted a man of felony murder in the death 26 years ago of his girlfriend's infant son, who had been left in his care. Prosecutors said that at the time, the man, Jan Barry Sandlin, blamed his girlfriend's two-year-old daughter, Tracy Rhame, for the baby's death. The case was reopened after Ms. Rhame, now 27, began looking into the circumstances of how her brother died. A7
 
Setback for Seafood Industry
While scientists say a toxic microbe that has killed millions of fish in Middle Atlantic waters this year poses no threat to fish-eaters, state officials in Maryland and Virginia say the outbreak is hurting their seafood industries. A7
 
Housing Rules May Change
The Senate voted to revamp public housing across the nation by making room for a greater number of the working poor and retooling rent policies that some say favor the unemployed. A10
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-5
 
Sharpton Loses Bid To Overturn Results
A state judge rejected the Rev. Al Sharpton's bid for a runoff in the Democratic mayoral primary, saying there was no evidence of "false votes or excessive miscounting" in the Sept. 9 election and no reason to question the result. B1
 
Dressing Down on Wall Street
The New York Stock Exchange, which has enforced a dress code since the late 18th century, had its first "casual Friday" as hundreds of traders that crowded the exchange's floor were allowed for the first time -- and for only one day -- to wear khaki pants. B3
 
Dispute Over Officer's Award
A police officer who was suspended after refusing to accept a medal of valor from a gay officers' organization has touched off a storm of protests, pitting union leaders who say he was unfairly punished against gay officers who are calling for further punitive measures. B3
 
New York Digest B1
 
SPORTS C1-7
 
Rose Seeks Return to Baseball 
Pete Rose made his first formal attempt at a comeback since being banished from baseball for life eight years ago. With the odds overwhelmingly against him, the game's all-time hit leader applied for reinstatement in a letter to Bud Selig, the acting commissioner. Ultimately, he seeks induction in the Hall of Fame, a place off-limits to the 56-year-old Rose because he is on baseball's ineligible list. C1
 
Teams Tied in Ryder Cup
Golfers from the United States and Europe were tied, 3-3, when darkness forced play to be suspended with two matches in progress on the opening day of the Ryder Cup in Sotogrande, Spain. C1
 
EDITORIAL A14-15
 
Editorials: Fairness and single-sex schools; Asia's forest disaster; flawed F.D.A. reforms.
 
Column: Maureen Dowd.
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-14
 
British Stock Index Soars
A leading British stock index recorded its biggest one-day gain in history following a report that the British Government is considering joining the European single currency shortly after its planned launch in 1999. D1
 
Growth Rate Revised Lower
The economy grew at a 3.3 percent annual pace during the spring, new data showed, somewhat slower than was previously thought but still faster than what most analysts consider the economy's speed limit, above which inflation would revive. Despite a further pickup in economic growth over the summer, economists say they expect that the Federal Reserve will leave interest rates unchanged when they meet on Tuesday. D1
 
Parts Maker Seeks Merger
The Federal-Mogul Corporation said it had offered to pay about $2 billion in cash to buy British auto supplier T&N. The Federal-Mogul deal is part of a broad consolidation trend in the auto-parts industry worldwide. D2
 
Business Digest D1
 
ARTS B7-16
 
OBITUARIES A11
 
Bridge B15
 
Weather D14
 
Crossword B14

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (56%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); CHINA (94%); ITALY (94%); INDONESIA (93%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); AUSTRALIA (92%); UKRAINE (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); BELARUS (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: SUMATRA, INDONESIA (79%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); 

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); CHINA (94%); ITALY (94%); INDONESIA (93%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); AUSTRALIA (92%); UKRAINE (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); BELARUS (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SUMATRA, INDONESIA (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); RELIGION (91%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); SENTENCING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EYEWITNESSES (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); COLD WAR (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); EARTHQUAKES (75%); MURDER (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); WITNESSES (72%); TESTIMONY (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); ECONOMIC POLICY (62%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (61%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (61%); FOREST FIRES (52%); AIRLINES (52%); 

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1997



521 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Whitman Makes Issue of a Critic's Marital Dispute

BYLINE: By MELODY PETERSEN

DATELINE: TRENTON, Sept. 26

 BODY:
For the last year, Gov. Christine Todd Whitman has repeatedly called for a clean campaign driven by issues, like the economy and taxes, and not by personal attacks. But when the Democrats renewed questions this week about a state-paid settlement of a sexual harassment case against a prominent Republican, it was the Governor who got personal.
The dispute began on Tuesday after the minority leader of the State Senate, John A. Lynch, said the Democrats planned to remind New Jersey voters about the $175,000 that the state paid this summer to settle a case brought by a state employee who had charged that she was harassed by the State Republican Party chairman, Chuck Haytaian, when he was Speaker of the State Assembly. 
 When told about the Democrats' plan, Mrs. Whitman responded that Mr. Lynch should "be ashamed of himself" for bringing up the sexual harassment case when he had had his own marital problems.
"John Lynch is someone who should know better than this," she told a reporter for The Star-Ledger of Newark on Tuesday. "He is someone who's had his own problems. Yes, he's had problems. We read it in the newspaper. He's had domestic violence problems."
Those words prompted Mr. Lynch's wife, Deborah, to send the Governor a letter on Wednesday, angrily saying that it was Mrs. Whitman who should be ashamed for referring to the domestic violence charges that the Brielle police filed against Mr. Lynch after an argument between the couple in 1996. The charges were dropped after Mrs. Lynch refused to testify against her husband.
"Your attempt to meddle in my marriage is a sick effort to cover up the real problems your administration has in dealing with sexual harassment," Mrs. Lynch wrote. "How dare you."
The next day, the Governor did not back down. "I'm not the one who called 911," she told reporters on Thursday, when asked whether she thought her comments had gone too far.
Today, Mrs. Whitman tried to move away from the issue.
She said the settlement of the Haytaian lawsuit had been handled according to state law, in the same way similar cases have been handled for other state employees. "There's nothing more to be said on the subject," Mrs. Whitman said at a news conference this morning. "If the Democrats want to divert attention from the real issues facing this state to talk about a sexual harassment case, they are really getting desperate. This case was settled under an existing law that the state has had in place for years."
After last year's Senate campaign between Robert G. Torricelli and Richard A. Zimmer, Mrs. Whitman complained about the candidates' personal attacks on each other and vowed that her re-election campaign would be different. Throughout her term as Governor, she has rarely lashed out so forcefully at her political adversaries.
The war of words has spurred the Democrats to organize an effort to get Mr. Haytaian, who is working on Mrs. Whitman's re-election campaign, to pay back the $340,000 that the state spent on the settlement and his legal defense.
Mr. Lynch said today that some of the Democrats campaigning for State Senate
may begin running television ads criticizing the Whitman administration's handling of the case.
The lawsuit against Mr. Haytaian was filed in January 1996 by Beth Herbert, an administrative assistant at the State House who worked for Mr. Haytaian when he was Speaker. Mrs. Herbert charged that starting about July 1994, Mr. Haytaian would call her into his office, close the door and hug or kiss her.
The sexual allegations were never proven or disproven, but Mr. Haytaian has denied wrongdoing. Nonetheless, in July of this year, the state agreed to pay $175,000 to settle the suit. The former Speaker had also filed a defamation lawsuit against Ms. Herbert, which he agreed to drop as part of the settlement. Based on Mrs. Whitman's recommendation, the Republican State Committee elected Mr. Haytaian in mid-1995 as their committee chairman, a position that pays $105,000 a year.
Mrs. Whitman's Democratic opponent, State Senator James E. McGreevey, has been mostly silent about the back-and-forth between the Governor and Mr. and Mrs. Lynch. Mr. McGreevey said through a spokeswoman today only that he felt that Mrs. Whitman's comments "were very unfortunate."
Carl Golden, a spokesman for the Republican State Committee and a former spokesman for the Governor, said Mr. Haytaian did not plan to pay the state any money and that he planned to stay involved in Mrs. Whitman's campaign. He said the Governor had responded appropriately after hearing that Mr. Lynch was accusing her administration of mishandling the sexual harassment case. "Any governor would have lost his or her temper," he said, "when confronted with such a lie."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Deborah Lynch, wife of the State Senate minority leader, John A Lynch; Gov. Christine Todd Whitman

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (89%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (75%); MARRIAGE (73%); LITIGATION (72%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); 

PERSON: JOHN LYNCH (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1997



522 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1997
(New Jersey)

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 145 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
Federal Money for Lab

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN 

DATELINE: PRINCETON

 BODY:
The Plasma Physics Laboratory at Princeton University was forced to shut down its Tokamak Fusion Test Reactor earlier this year and lay off 35 workers because of declining congressional support. But the lab will get enough Federal financing during the coming year to avoid further cuts, officials at the lab said yesterday.
"It's extremely good news," said Rich Hawrlyuk, deputy director of the lab. 
 House and Senate conferees in Washington agreed to spend $232 million for the United States Department of Energy's magnetic fusion program -- the same amount as last year -- but some of it will be redirected toward the construction of a smaller, more economical reactor at Princeton, Mr. Hawrlyuk said.
The Tokamak reactor had achieved the world's highest controlled yield of fusion energy, but drew criticism from lawmakers who said it was inefficient.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: PLASMA PHYSICS LABORATORY; PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (85%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (93%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: PLASMA PHYSICS LABORATORY; PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (93%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC ENERGY; FEDERAL AID (US); SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PHYSICS (90%); PLASMA PHYSICS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (68%); 

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1997



523 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: Indonesia Jet Crash Kills All 234 Aboard; Haze Was a Possible Cause

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Sept. 26

 BODY:
An Indonesian Airbus A-300 that left Jakarta carrying 234 people crashed today as it approached an airport on the neighboring island of Sumatra, part of a vast region where thick smoke from forest fires has cut visibility.
Witnesses to the crash, near Medan, in northern Sumatra, 900 miles northwest of Jakarta, said the aircraft exploded as it crashed. 
 ["All passengers and crew on board the plane that crashed were killed," the Communications Minister, Haryanto Danutirto, said Saturday, The Associated Press reported.]
Rescue workers reported recovering 212 bodies in the first hours after the crash.
Officials of the Indonesian national carrier, Garuda Airlines, said 11 foreigners were aboard Flight 152, including two Americans, six Japanese, three Germans, a Malaysian and a Dutch citizen. The Taiwam Embassy said six of its citizens were also on board.
There was no official word on the cause of the crash, but a number of airports in Southeast Asia have been closed by the thick blanket of smoke caused by hundreds of forest fires burning in Indonesia.
"The weather conditions were O.K. for landing, but there was smoke and haze around Medan at the time," Communications Minister Haryanto Danutirto said.
Supandi, the president of Garuda, said at a news conference here that visibility was about one-third of a mile at the time of the crash, at 1:55 P.M. The airline canceled several flights into Medan after the crash, but airport officials said other carriers continued to use the airport.
Witnesses said the plane was flying low in the smoky haze in a hilly area 20 miles from the Medan airport when it hit a tree and crashed into a ravine, shattering.
Aviation experts said an investigation would be needed to determine the cause of the crash. But they said the haze could have been a factor.
"The people investigating this accident will certainly look at that among the other issues they will look at," said David Venz, a spokesman for Airbus Industrie, which makes the plane.
The Airbus A-300 is equipped with radar and guidance systems that allow it to land at night or in poor visibility, but airport officials would not say whether thy were in use. Nor was it immediately known whether the airport in Medan, the main city in northern Sumatra, is equipped with a simple beacon or the more advanced glide-slope indicator, which guides an incoming plane to the runway.
An accumulation of ash has been known to clog the engines of aircraft flying close to volcanic eruptions, but it was not clear whether ash from the forest fires could have been aloft in sufficient concentrations to have been a factor here.
Pilot error was also a possibility, an airline expert said, either related to the smoke or not. A plane still 20 miles from an airport would normally be several thousand feet in the air, and the witnesses made no mention of a sudden plunge that might indicate mechanical failure. It was also unclear whether the explosion that was reported came before or after the plane hit the ground.
Experts on airline safety have raised questions about the training and performance of Garuda personnel, and at one point the airline was banned from flying to airports in the United States. The ban was appealed and never went into effect.
Since 1982, Garuda has had six major crashes in which the planes were total wrecks. Although three of those crashes ended without fatalities, the total death toll in the other three was 56.
"They haven't had a lot of fatalities but they've trashed a lot of planes," said Darryl Jenkins, a professor of airline economics at George Washington University in Washington. "They are one of the most poorly run airlines in the world."
If the crash did result from the smoke, it adds urgency to an unfolding disaster. The pungent haze is spreading northward from Indonesia through Singapore, Malaysia, Brunei, the Philippines and Thailand, mingling with the smog of cities, darkening beach resorts, hampering agriculture and sending tens of thousands of people to hospitals with respiratory ailments.
"The sky in Southeast Asia has turned yellow, and people are dying," said Claude Martin, director general of the World Wide Fund for Nature in a statement released in Geneva. "What we are witnessing is not just an environmental disaster but a tremendous health problem being imposed on millions."
Indonesia has declared a state of emergency and issued an official apology to its neighbors.
Most of the smoke is coming from fires on the islands of Sumatra and Borneo. Many of the fires have been deliberately set as a cheap though illegal way of clearing land.
Much of the clearing is for palm-oil plantations as prices for the commodity rise. Slash-and-burn farmers are also setting fires, as they traditionally do during the dry season that begins in June.
The cyclical reappearance of El Nino, a warming of surface water temperatures in the South Pacific, is disrupting weather patterns over much of the globe this year, and in Southeast Asia it has delayed the onset of the monsoon, which usually douse the fires. Officials here said the prolonged dry season was also causing areas that have been stripped of their forest cover to burst into flame.
The hot, dry weather is causing a drought that has reportedly taken more than 200 lives on New Guinea, which is shared by Indonesia and Papua New Guinea.
Wildlife is also threatened. The president of the International Worldwide Fund for Nature, Syed Babar Ali, who is visiting here, called the fires "an international catastrophe."

GRAPHIC: Map of Sumatra showing location of Medan: The Indonesian Airbus A-300 crashed near the Medan airport.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (85%); 

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (99%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: SUMATRA, INDONESIA (99%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (94%); 

COMPANY: GARUDA (INDONESIAN AIRLINE); AIRBUS INDUSTRIE AIRBUS SAS (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: GARUDA (INDONESIAN AIRLINE); AIRBUS INDUSTRIE

GEOGRAPHIC: MEDAN (SUMATRA); INDONESIA; INDONESIA (99%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); SUMATRA, INDONESIA (99%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (94%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; SMOKE; FIRES AND FIREMEN; AIR POLLUTION; FOREST AND BRUSH FIRES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (92%); AIRLINES (91%); AIRPORTS (91%); FOREST FIRES (90%); FIRES (90%); WITNESSES (89%); ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (89%); AIRPORT OPERATION (89%); EYEWITNESSES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (61%); VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1997



524 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 7; Page 18; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Location Isn't Everything

BYLINE: By Joyce Purnick; Joyce Purnick is the metropolitan editor of The New York Times.

 BODY:

Sleeping With The Mayor
 A True Story.
 By John Jiler.
 366 pp. St. Paul:
 Hungry Mind Press. $25. 
 For those coming of age in the New York of Disney, disappearing squeegee men and a booming luxury housing market, it may be a revelation that less than a decade ago the city was consumed by an ill-understood phenomenon -- the homeless. The homeless dominated conversations from City Hall to Park Avenue. Careers were made by championing -- and often distorting -- the plight of the homeless. Newspapers made the homeless a beat and ran article after article, including a series on The Times's editorial page titled "New Calcutta." Even Harvard Law School got into the act, celebrating a disturbed woman whose demand to sleep, eat and defecate on the streets made her the momentary darling of civil libertarians.
It is no exaggeration to say that homelessness became a simplistic synonym for poverty and everything unfair in urban America. Yet few ever decoded its complexities. Until now. In his provocatively titled "Sleeping With the Mayor," John Jiler, playwright and author, writes with a novelist's sensibility about a subject more often drained of drama in legal treatises and consent decrees. His book, despite some lapses and excesses, makes homelessness and its trajectory through New York understandable and compelling.
Nine years ago, while writing for The Village Voice, Jiler was drawn to a ragtag group of men and women who staged a protest in City Hall Park and stayed on for a while. He moved into their encampment -- which became known as "Kochville" because it was within sight of Mayor Edward I. Koch's office -- and made it his laboratory. Because Jiler avoids idealizing the homeless -- though one gets the feeling he originally intended to -- "Sleeping With the Mayor" offers a persuasive portrait not only of a tough problem but of the larger society surrounding it. His book explores the complexities of homelessness without preaching, and weaves in revealing portraits of classic New York characters -- former Mayor Koch, Parks Commissioner Henry J. Stern.
The word "homeless" has always been misleading, because homelessness is not one condition. It encompasses single people and families; men and women who are mentally ill, drug addicts, alcoholics or simply poor. New York threw billions of dollars at programs that failed because one size did not fit all: most of the homeless needed help. Others needed just a roof over their heads.
Jiler portrays the confusion about homelessness with inviting techniques of narrative and case studies. He humanizes, but refuses to romanticize, the characters he came to know, presenting them as he found them. Kochville, which got little attention in the daily newspapers or network newscasts in 1988, was a rocky experiment in democracy one moment, a center of violence the next. It was preyed upon by talk show hosts, pounced on by self-promoting politicians, used by advocates.
Jiler does not flinch from describing black anti-Semitism and racism in Kochville, or telling how the encampment fell apart after a while, a victim of disorder, neglect and the instability of its residents. Along the way we see the exasperated Mayor, the political Parks Commissioner. We get to understand the wages of cynicism and inflexible ideology.
In one of the more riveting sections of the book, readers watch as a naive advocate trains one of Kochville's residents, Larry Locke, to be a "spokesman" and even arranges to have him and another hired as $25,000-a-year "coordinators," paid from a church grant. Locke appears on public television, attends political cocktail parties, masters the intricacies of homeless finances. He represents the park dwellers even after he has moved in with his new lady friend in Brooklyn -- until he loses his church-funded job and drifts off again. The other salaried "coordinator," a drifter named Duke York, quits, frustrated with his featured role in the homeless version of a radical chic drama: "I don't want the damn money!" he says. "I'm not a homeless spokesman! . . . Rather be a damn janitor!"
Did he really say that? Unfortunately, Jiler relies too heavily on reconstructed scenes and dialogue, especially for a book subtitled "A True Story." He explains in his acknowledgments that his book is "largely an oral history," based on "hours and hours" of interviews, and clearly it was. But reconstruction is reconstruction; "Sleeping With the Mayor" needed no such embroidery.
Jiler makes more clever use of his impressive imagination in presenting a fascinating story within a story about a building at 850 Longwood Avenue in the Bronx. He traces its evolution from construction by Jewish and Irish immigrants early in this century to its deterioration and its eventual rebirth in the late 1980's, the decade of the homeless. Because the building's renovators benefited from a city loan, they were legally obliged to give some apartments to the homeless. When 850 Longwood reopened in 1990, a woman who had been living on a mattress in an abandoned synagogue moved into one of its modest apartments.
"She was home," Jiler writes. It is one of the book's limitations that the reader never learns how long she stayed or the fate of most of Kochville's residents, although Jiler does report that Locke was last seen in 1990 panhandling in front of Zabar's, and York became a bicycle messenger. Disappointing, too, is Jiler's failure to address solutions to various homeless problems. For instance, he mentions Koch's ambitious $4 billion program to build and renovate apartments but does not attempt to assess its impact. Jiler may have been right to avoid a serious policy discussion. That would have changed the book's inviting tone, which is no doubt why he chose the broader brush: "The homeless have not vanished," he writes, suggesting that they have become less visible because the Giuliani Administration "has taken a more cosmetic approach."
It is more complicated than that. The city has indeed pushed the homeless to the city's less visible periphery. It has, despite court challenges, forced more people to double up with friends and relatives. But the city has also encouraged nonprofit groups to run single-room hotels that provide drug counseling and other services. Is the homeless population down? Homeless advocates say no; others say yes, because of tougher policies and a cooperating economy. But nobody really knows how many people are truly homeless, or how to eradicate homelessness, because, as "Sleeping With the Mayor gently instructs us, most of the homeless are not lacking just homes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: SLEEPING WITH THE MAYOR. A TRUE STORY (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (56%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (56%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (56%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; HOMELESS PERSONS HOMELESSNESS (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); CITIES (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); MAYORS (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (76%); THEATER (74%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); DRAMA LITERATURE (71%); LITERATURE (71%); CASE STUDIES (71%); LAWYERS (70%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (70%); LAW SCHOOLS (69%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (60%); MENTAL ILLNESS (60%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: PURNICK, JOYCE; JILER, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



525 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 7; Page 4; Column 4; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 298 words

HEADLINE: 'The Judas Economy'

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Peter Passell raises a disquieting issue in his review of "The Judas Economy" (Aug. 24), which I wrote with Anne Colamosca. Our central thesis is that the spread of the free market around the world has tilted the playing field so that the economic returns to capital in the United States -- indeed, throughout the industrial world -- are higher as compared with the economic returns to work. 
 As evidence that what we are saying is "overblown," Passell writes that "the percentage of total income going into wages has hardly budged in the past few decades." That is simply not true if a "few" decades means more than two. If the yardstick is American labor's share of the national income, as Passell implies, then it rose from 68.5 percent in 1959 to 73.2 percent in 1979 and has been stable since. For the industrial world as a whole, labor's share of income in the private sector has fallen from an average of 68 percent in the 1970's to 65.1 percent in 1995.
In any case, the aggregate national income data are inappropriate to settling the distributional question. The American national income accounts are constructed in such a way that it is almost impossible to separate income accruing to capital from income accruing to work. One reason is that the national income accounts include the income generated by proprietorships (about 8 percent of national income in 1995) and contain no breakdown of income from work or from capital. A second reason is that a huge share of national income (about 19.7 percent in 1995) is generated by government and nonprofit organizations. Since American national income accounts assign no profits to the capital employed in these sectors, they are deemed to generate income only for labor.
 
William Wolman
New York

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TITLE: JUDAS ECONOMY, THE (BOOK)

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (58%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (58%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); LITERATURE (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: WOLMAN, WILLIAM; PASSELL, PETER; COLAMOSCA, ANNE

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



526 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 2; Page 11; Column 5; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: FILM VIEW;
Some Days The Bear Gets You

BYLINE: By Peter Marks

 BODY:
"ALL MY LIFE, I WANTED TO DO SOMETHING that was unequivocal," the stoical billionaire, lost somewhere in the Alaskan wilderness without food, water or even, God help him, a cell phone, declares in "The Edge," a new action-adventure film with a screenplay by no less a heavyweight than David Mamet.
Anthony Hopkins, playing the industrialist, expresses this curious longing while being stalked through snowdrifts by a 1,400-pound bear. O.K., so a less introspective soul might have been obsessed about something else. Like, say, the bear's feeding times. The truth is, given the odd pedigree of this man-against-man-against-nature movie, it might have been more apt had Mr. Mamet given himself the wistful line. This master craftsman of subtext and misdirection has wandered into a formulaic movie genre as inhospitable to his technique as the frozen outback is to country clubbers dressed for a walk in the woods. 
 "The Edge," as a result, is the most bizarre movie ever written by Mr. Mamet, the author of the bristling Pulitzer Prize-winning "Glengarry Glen Ross," among other plays and screenplays for commercial hit movies like "The Verdict" and "The Untouchables" and for smaller art films, like "House of Games" and "Things Change," that more closely resemble his quirky comedy-dramas for the stage. These movies, which in some cases represent Mr. Mamet at his most accessible and others at his most inscrutable, benefited from his sublime gift for economical banter and his fluency in the language and rituals of male rivalry.
Mr. Mamet's dramatic voice, rife with epithet and aggression, is such a trademark device that the Mametian school of characterspeak can easily be parodied. In David Ives's current Off Broadway comedy, "Mere Mortals," a short sketch titled "Speed-the-Play" (borrowed from Mr. Mamet's own "Speed-the-Plow") satirizes Mr. Mamet's Hemingwayesque embrace of the simple, manly declarative sentence.
The emcee of an Illinois men's club brings the evening's tribute to Mr. Mamet to order. "David Mamet. Poker player. Cigar smoker. Male bonder," he begins. "Why is David Mamet an American genius? Because David Mamet instinctively knows three important things about his audience. First, he knows Americans like speed. Second, David Mamet knows that Americans don't like to pay for parking, so he keeps his plays nice and short. Third, David Mamet knows how Americans talk. Especially American men. He knows that when men go to the theater, they want to hear familiar words." And he goes on to list some choice unprintable ones.
With "The Edge," however, Mr. Mamet seems to be his own best parodist, abandoning his instincts in the service of B-movie plot mechanics. It's the kind of howler of a Hollywood mismatch Robert Altman satirized in "The Player." Imagine, if you will, a studio executive walking up to a stylist like Preston Sturges and saying, "I've got two words for you: 'Rambo 4.' "
"The Edge" is a handsomely photographed outdoors thriller -- every scene could be a layout in Outside magazine -- that pits Mr. Hopkins against Alec Baldwin, who plays a fashion photographer with a chip on his shoulder and an eye for the older man's wife (the supermodel Elle Macpherson). For reasons that must have made sense at some point during preproduction, Mr. Baldwin invites Mr. Hopkins to accompany him on a seaplane as he searches for the ideal Eskimo to pose in a fashion shoot.
The plane goes down in a lake, stranding the brooding magnate and the swaggering lensman in the woods, the domain of an unfriendly (and ravenous) local resident, portrayed by the movie veteran Bart the Bear. (Factoid for ursine groupies: Bart is working with Mr. Hopkins for the second time. Both had roles in "Legends of the Fall.")
THESE ARE ARCHETYPAL MAMET MEN -- desperate, grasping, paranoid, wounded, vulnerable -- but also uncharacteristically vapid. For a writer who works so close to the bone, the superficial territory occupied by the Hollywood thriller seems to be a no man's land. Insecurely, Mr. Mamet fills his script with literary affectation; ominous references to prey and predators crop up frequently. And the dialogue is of a self-conscious variety both stagey and unintentionally funny. "Most people lost in the woods, they die of shame," Mr. Hopkins mutters at one point. They do? (In the next scene, one of the crash survivors is shamelessly eaten by Bart.)
It is the bear's entrance that is the tip-off that Mr. Mamet is out of his element. (Shakespeare, at least, had the foresight to whisk a bear on and off the stage briskly in his own cold-climate production, "The Winter's Tale.") We expect a Mamet bear, though, to have more on its mind than making lunch of the above-the-title talent. A Mamet bear should have ulterior motives -- suffer from a drug dependency, have a secret attraction to one of the stars, reveal an abiding hatred for mankind owing to being victimized in a land-fraud scam.
But no. This bear reveals a paucity of internal conflict. In fact, he's the most knowable character in the entire film. And even more remarkably for a Mamet movie, he gets all the best lines.

GRAPHIC: Photo: NO MAN'S LAND Alec Baldwin, left, and Anthony Hopkins in "The Edge," written by David Mamet. (Joe Lederer/20th Century Fox)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); ALASKA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); FILM (90%); MEN (89%); WRITERS (77%); FILM GENRES (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (72%); POKER (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (66%); THEATER (57%); 

PERSON: ALEC BALDWIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



527 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 6; Page 52; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1589 words

HEADLINE: Technology Makes Us Richer;
The Paper-Bag Revolution

BYLINE: By Paul Krugman; Paul Krugman is a professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. His last article, about the cost of aging, appeared in March.

 BODY:
Envision, if you can, a technology that sharply improves the efficiency with which goods can be delivered to the consumer; that, in the view of one prominent economist, is the "most effective innovation during the preceding decade in speeding up American retail sales"; that within only a few years of its introduction becomes a pervasive feature of American life.
Such a technology, according to the historian Daniel J. Boorstin, was the square-bottomed paper bag, invented circa 1870 by one Luther Childs Crowell. The modern paper bag was one of the thousands of inventions, from the sewing machine to the cotton gin to condensed milk, that made us the land of Yankee ingenuity. Other nations might have great scholars and scientists, but America was uniquely endowed with practical visionaries, people who could translate ideas into things that worked. 
 Is America still that place? Do we still have the knack of making productive innovations?
This may seem an odd time to ask that question. Right now, America is feeling supremely confident about its technological prowess. After all, we invented the microprocessor, the personal computer and the Internet -- which President Jacques Chirac of France has glumly characterized as an "Anglo-Saxon" network. The world's second richest man (after the Sultan of Brunei) is a self-made American technology mogul, and 20-something Silicon Valley millionaires are our modern Horatio Alger stories. Surely the spirit of Luther Childs Crowell is with us still.
Yet only a few years ago, American technology seemed to have lost its sparkle. Growth in business productivity, the necessary condition for rising living standards, had slowed to a crawl in the early 1970's and showed no signs of reviving. Innovative products, from VCR's to numerically controlled machine tools, all seemed to be manufactured someplace else. Among those who studied American innovation, gloom was the rule. "Companies evidently find it difficult to design simple, reliable, mass-producible products." So declared "Made in America," the influential 1989 report of M.I.T.'s Commission on Industrial Productivity.
In retrospect, it seems clear that we were too hard on ourselves. But just as we were unduly pessimistic a few years ago, we may be giving ourselves too much credit right now.
There is no question that the prophets of the new technological age have a lot of big ideas. Some of them have also been making big bucks, as business has scrambled to buy the latest and snazziest technology (and as investors, believing in those ideas, have paid huge prices for the right to share in hypothetical future profits). But when it comes to the true bottom line -- the ability of technology to make us more productive and thereby to raise our standard of living -- it's usually not the big ideas but the way they are implemented that really makes the difference.
Remember that 19th-century America had no monopoly on the big technological ideas of its time -- steam power and electricity, gears and camshafts. What propelled us to the world's highest standard of living was the relentless ingenuity with which our inventors and entrepreneurs applied those technologies to small things, things that made workers more productive or domestic chores easier. Their innovations ranged from Crowell's paper bags (and Robert Gair's prefabricated cardboard box) to Frederick Taylor's discovery that steelworkers could do four times more work if you gave them the right shovels. American inventors understood that the road to progress lay not merely in pursuing grand visions but in making better mousetraps -- that is, mundane technologies for ordinary use.
The technologies that get all the attention these days, however, lack that down-to-earth sensibility. Indeed, in the technology that dominates the news -- personal computing -- some observers seriously argue that we have gone past the point of diminishing returns, that the pursuit of high tech for its own sake sometimes comes at the expense of actual utility.
Anyone who has been using personal computers for a number of years knows what these cynics mean. I got my first PC in 1984; it displayed text and numbers in any color you wanted, as long as it was green. Today I work on a computer that provides me with 50 times the power and 100 times the memory, offers me dazzling color and hundreds of nifty features, and in most respects is no more useful than my good old I.B.M. In fact, in some ways I'm worse off: I used to be able to start work in seconds, while now I have to wait several minutes until the machine announces its readiness with an annoying "ta-da!" And software that requires fancy screens and constantly spins the disk is purely counterproductive when you are working on battery power; like many experienced business travelers, I have carefully saved an old DOS-based word processor to use when airborne.
True, Microsoft and Intel have made a lot of money selling us these dubious improvements. But then the high-tech industry has raised the art of planned obsolesence to a level Detroit never dreamed possible. How many people were happy with DOS but had to move to Windows, and then to Windows 95 -- simply because they could no longer get software or maintenance on their perfectly functional old system?
Put this down to personal crotchetiness, if you like; but I am not alone in my sense that something has gone wrong. A recent Scientific American article quotes a Microsoft executive, Nathan Myhrvold, as declaring: "Software is a gas. It expands to fill its container.. . . After all, if we hadn't brought your processor to its knees, why else would you get a new one?" The article then offers evidence that making programs like word processors ever more feature-laden often makes them harder, not easier, to learn and use.
Many of those features are like the "fluted columns, ornamental arches, entablatures, curlicues and encrusted scrolls" that, according to Boorstin, cluttered up 19th-century British machinery -- and that Americans used to have the good sense to leave out. Meanwhile, we seem to have developed a sort of aristocratic disdain for the old-fashioned skills needed to make technology serve the needs of ordinary people. Michael Dertouzos, who heads M.I.T.'s Laboratory for Computer Science (and was one of the authors of "Made in America"), is a notable and courageous advocate of smaller, simpler, more useful machines. Yet in his forecast-cum-manifesto, "What Will Be," he consistently seems to brush off as a minor technicality -- a task for mere "electromechanical gadgets" -- the really hard business of making information technology do real-world work. My favorite example is his "auto-cook," in which a computer directs machinery to select foods from "specially fitted bins," then to "cut, mix and process" that food and finally to move the food into the right receptacles, heat them, perhaps stir, and so on. He finds all of this plausible and is surprised it hasn't happened yet. We may assume that Dertouzos doesn't cook, but even so, his surprise suggests either that he lives on a diet of unusually homogeneous shape and texture -- let them eat poundcake! -- or that he has forgotten just how much hard work is required to create gadgets that produce desired results, not in cyberspace but out here in the material world. From an economic point of view, gadgets are what it's all about.
Luckily, though they don't get much glory, the gadgets keep on coming. Taken one at a time, they don't amount to all that much. When a recent New York Times article described how new technology has helped produce rapid productivity growth in the railroad industry, it was all a collection of little, unglamorous things: better wheels, better suspensions, better brakes, better motors. About the highest-tech item was a transponder-scanner combination not much more elaborate than the bar-code/scanner technology in use on every supermarket checkout line. It's hard to work up a millennial fervor, or even to get interested, in such nitty-gritty stuff. But to the extent that we have actually experienced economic progress in recent years, the main reason is the cumulative impact of such mundane innovations -- not the largely useless profusion of features on PC's, let alone the still hypothetical wonders of the Internet.
So what will the future high-tech economy look like? Will the average worker put on virtual-reality goggles and maneuver through 3-D simulations? Probably not: even aside from the vertigo issue, evidence suggests that 3-D environments are confusing and should be avoided where possible. But we probably will live in a world where everyone has E-mail, a 30-year-old technology that was a plaything for nerds until people like Steve Dorner -- who developed the E-mail software called Eudora in classic American lone-inventor style -- made it easy for ordinary people to use. Will we call up our voice-recognition home computer and tell it to prepare beef Wellington for dinner? Not a chance. But when we stop at the supermarket on the way home from work, the little chip in the cereal box may be able to tell the smart cash register to bill our credit card as we head, without stopping, for the exit. And it won't even seem like a big deal, because taken by itself, it isn't.
In a way, the technological prophets are right: technology will transform the world and make us all richer in the process. But it will do it the old-fashioned way: a little bit at a time.

GRAPHIC: Photo: (Photography by Richard Caldicott for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (70%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (55%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (70%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (55%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PERSONAL COMPUTERS LIVING STANDARDS (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (77%); HISTORY (76%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); MACHINE TOOLS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (69%); MICROPROCESSORS (67%); RETAIL SALES (57%); 

PERSON: KRUGMAN, PAUL (PROF) PAUL KRUGMAN (57%); JACQUES CHIRAC (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



528 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 6; Page 34; Column 2; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: On Language;
Over and Outreach

BYLINE: By William Safire 

 BODY:
When he was first asked about his presence at a 1996 fund-raiser in a California Buddhist temple, Vice President Al Gore claimed he had no idea it was a fund-raiser, which has now become a politically dirty word. He thought the purpose of the gathering was "community outreach."
After the election, an aide put out word that Mr. Gore did know it was "a finance-related event" and added with fervent candor, "If he had the opportunity now to not say 'community out-reach' and to use a different term of art like political outreach or something like that . . . he probably would have done it." Another anonymous White House aide, after the derision directed at the euphemism finance-related, tried a different compound modifier: it had been understood to be a "donor maintenance" meeting. 
 In all this linguistic bobbing and weaving, the key word is outreach.
Officialdom embraces the word: "We care about the outreach to small business," says a Los Angeles small-business agent. So does the charity world: a new gymnasium "gave us greater outreach into the neighborhood," says a Memphis philanthropy. Churches get with it, too: "We want to see our church be the hub of evangelistic outreach to the community," says a Norfolk, Va., clergyman.
Where did its current popularization begin? In the labor movement: the "Apprenticeship Outreach program" was begun by the A.F.L.-C.I.O. in 1969 to encourage the hiring of those who were then called Negro youths in the construction trades. Labor's Lane Kirkland and the Nixon Labor Secretary George P. Shultz put the Government firmly behind the plan. Arnold Weber, then assistant secretary of manpower and now chancellor of Northwestern University, recalls the word being bruited about heavily at the February 1970 labor conclave at Bal Harbor, Fla. "I was probably the passive conduit of some flack," he tells me. "The word was in the bureaucratic air at the time." The renowned educator (who used to send the White House memos stamped "Teeth Only") adds: "Your etymological question should be: Why was the word order reversed? Why wasn't it reachout?"
(Beats me, chancellor; a related formulation, takeout, means food "to be consumed off premises," while the reverse, outtake, means "tape not used in a broadcast." No similar split took place with reachout.)
Politics -- the business of involving voters in a party's cause -- seized on the word. In their need to reach out and put the touch on someone, politicians have adopted and besmirched a word coined in its compassionate sense by the poet John Greenleaf Whittier in 1870: "No proof beyond this yearning,/This out-reach of our hearts, we need."
Or as the vice chairman of finance, Andrea del Sarto, never used to say: Man's outreach should exceed his outgrasp, or what's a fund-raiser for?
 
VENERABLE
At those hearings examining campaign finance scandals, a title was introduced not often heard in Congress. Three Buddhist nuns, explaining under immunity from prosecution how they altered and destroyed incriminating checks and documents, were respectfully addressed by their title Venerable.
What a nice word. Rooted in the Latin venerari, "to worship," and even more deeply in venus, "love," venerable is a title that is a degree more reverent than Reverend. In the Anglican Church, it is used for an archdeacon; in the Catholic Church, it is a title for a dead person who may be beatified on the way to sainthood, and in Buddhism, it is used by nuns, roughly equivalent to the title Sister.
As an adjective, venerable means "worthy of respect because of age and dignity." Its most famous use is titular, however; the Venerable Bede was a Benedictine monk and scholar who lived in seventh-century England. He was sainted in 1899, and is venerated by historians today because the widely read theologian was the first to scrupulously cite his sources.
 
PAPA RAZZI
Who was the father of paparazzi?
The 1960 movie "La Dolce Vita" ("The Sweet Life") was a drama directed by Federico Fellini illuminating the decadence, alcoholism, sex-satiation and other nonfamily values prevalent among a swinging set in postwar Italy. Marcello Mastroianni played a predatory gossip columnist and Walter Santesso a sidewalk photographer called "Signore Paparazzo."
An Economist magazine etymologist found that a Fellini writer, Neoennio Flaiano, took the name from a 19th-century hotelier in Catanzaro, Coriolano Paparazzo, mentioned in "By the Ionian Sea," by George Gissing. But it was Fellini's character who gave birth to an eponym, a word derived from the name of an individual.
The most famous epony-mous characters are Amelia Bloomer, a suffragist who wore Turkish-style pants, Capt. Charles Boycott, the shunned British land agent in Ireland, and Samuel Maverick, the Texas rancher who didn't brand his cattle; less well known are Thomas Bowler and John Batterson Stetson, the hat makers; Johannes Geiger, the counterman; Rudolf Diesel, the internal combuster, and King Mausolus of Caria, whose tomb was one of the seven wonders of the ancient world.
In our century, some leading eponyms are Ernst Mach, who predicted we would zip through the speed of sound; Maria Montessori, who came up with a method of teaching children, and Sun Myung Moon, whose Unification Church members are usually called Moonies. In current printed and spoken usage, however, Signore Paparazzo, camera in hand, outdoes them all.
Two years ago, Paul McCartney, the former Beatle, wrote a lyric titled "The World Tonight" that included the word in an aviary metaphor and concluded with a prescient shudder: "I saw you hiding from a flock of paparazzi./You were hoping, you were hoping that the ground would swallow you."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ON LANGUAGE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AFL-CIO (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ENGLISH LANGUAGE FUNDRAISING (90%); RELIGION (90%); POLITICS (89%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (78%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); LINGUISTICS (77%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (64%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM AL GORE (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



529 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 6; Page 46; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 4205 words

HEADLINE: Technology Makes Us Better;
Our Oldest Computer, Upgraded

BYLINE: By John Tierney; John Tierney is a staff writer for the Magazine. In May, he wrote about the debate over rent stabilization in New York.

 BODY:
When the Sojourner's tiny wheels rolled over the Martian surface on July 5, it was in some ways a bigger leap for mankind than Neil Armstrong's first step on the Moon. You may not have realized that if you were watching network television, which gave the Mars landing relatively short shrift. But that was the beauty of this extraterrestrial event: you didn't need a television to follow it.
Anyone in the world with a computer and an Internet connection could see pictures from the spacecraft. You could study Martian sunsets or put on cardboard 3-D glasses to take in a 360-degree view of the landscape. With a few clicks of the mouse, you could read a treatise on Martian geology, check out the latest weather conditions on the planet, sit in on a news conference or watch scientists issuing commands from the mission-control room. One Web site provided a recipe for throwing a Mars Madness Celebration -- red and brown M & M's were recommended -- and gave directions to dozens of such gatherings across America. Other sites let you participate in on-line chats with planetary scientists as well as religious fundamentalists convinced that the mission was a hoax being staged in the Arizona desert. During the week of the landing, the various Mars Web sites were visited more than 200 million times. 
 It was easily the most popular event in the history of the Internet, proof at last that humanity could use this new medium for something loftier than viewing pictures of a naked Pamela Anderson Lee. The Moon landing was the apotheosis of the old technological order: a big-budget achievement of central planning, a cold-war triumph of the military-industrial complex packaged by politicians and presented to the masses by the media establishment. The Mars visit was a low-budget operation with a charming quirkiness to it, a peaceful scientific exercise instead of a propaganda victory over an enemy nation. In 1969, Communist authorities suppressed coverage of the Moon landing; this year, Russians followed the Mars mission on the World Wide Web, using the very machines that helped end the cold war.
Is this a better world? Has technology made us better? Tools can't change human nature, but they can encourage or suppress certain qualities, and most people would probably agree on what constitutes "better": wiser, happier, kinder, more equitable and cooperative, less duplicitous and belligerent. The tricky part is defining "us."
In the two centuries after the Industrial Revolution, individuals reaped enormous personal benefits that were accompanied by some social liabilities. As people abandoned farms and small towns, they lost communal bonds; as personal incomes rose, public air and water got dirtier; as power became concentrated in capital cities, elites controlled new tools of mass communication and mass destruction. Indoor plumbing and washing machines freed women of onerous work, but there was less socializing at wells. Trains and cars enabled workers to move away from industrial neighborhoods, but these suburbanites spent more time alone in their cars and backyards, lapping up the wisdom of distant publishers and broadcasters instead of chatting with relatives and neighbors. Although new technology is often described as a Faustian bargain, historically it has involved a trade-off not between materialism and spirituality -- lugging water from the well was not a spiritually uplifting exercise for most people, no matter how much it might appeal to the Unabomber -- but between individual freedom and social virtue.
Today's technologies offer a better deal for everyone. Individuals are acquiring more control over their lives, their minds and their bodies, even their genes, thanks to the transformations in medicine, communications, transportation and industry. At the same time, these technologies are providing social benefits and undoing some of the damage of the past. Technology helps to conserve natural resources and diminish pollution. Today's farmers are so efficient that unneeded cropland is reverting to forests and parks; the most high-tech countries have the cleanest air and water. The Information Revolution, besides enabling people to visit Mars at will, is fostering peaceful cooperation on Earth by decentralizing power. Political tyrants and demagogic warmongers are losing control now that their subjects have tools to communicate directly with one another. People are using the tools to do their jobs without leaving their families. They're forming new communities in cyberspace and forming new bonds with their neighbors in real space. Technology has the potential to increase individual freedom and strengthen community -- even though at the moment, so many people complain it does neither.
Technology's victims have become familiar images in the media: on-line addicts who don't know their next-door neighbors; satellite- dish owners who have stopped reading; computer users overwhelmed by E-mail, infuriated by software glitches and baffled by incomprehensible manuals; workers displaced by machines or forced to put in longer hours; frazzled parents, especially working mothers, too exhausted and busy to spend time with their children. We contrast these pathetic figures with images of a happier past, of families quietly relaxing in a pre-machine age when people still had time to read, contemplate the meaning of life, visit with their relatives and neighbors.
But when exactly were those halcyon days? If premachine means before the Industrial Revolution, the average person then was short-lived, illiterate and oblivious to most culture beyond the village. Women's lives were consumed with domestic chores and continual pregnancies, and women were especially unlikely to be educated. Marriage records from a region of 1750's England, then one of the world's most literate societies, show that two-thirds of the bridegrooms could sign their names, but only one-third of the brides could. It would be hard to call that a better world.
Living conditions and educational opportunities certainly improved after the Industrial Revolution, but people still didn't have much time to sit around discussing the classics or communing with nature. In the middle of the last century, the typical man in Britain worked more than 60 hours a week, with no annual vacation, from age 10 until he died at about 50. That left him with about 90,000 hours of free time over the course of his adult life -- barely a third of the free time enjoyed by today's workers. This trend shows no sign of abating, says Jesse H. Ausubel, director of the Program for the Human Environment at Rockefeller University. He projects that by the middle of the next century, the average workweek in America will be shorter than 28 hours.
Since 1965, Americans have gained an average of almost one hour of leisure each day, according to social scientists at the University of Maryland who have been studying people's "time diaries" over the past three decades. Americans are now spending a little more time reading books and magazines, exercising, pursuing hobbies and attending adult-education courses. Evidence from the diaries and other research shows that in recent decades, people have been going more frequently to art museums, the theater and the opera.
Contrary to popular stereotypes, the diaries show that the workweek has been shortening, that women have as much leisure time as men and that parents are spending as much time with their children as they did in the 1960's. These children, unfortunately, are less likely to live with two parents, which may be partly a consequence of technology that has made divorce and single parenthood less of an economic burden: men and women are presumably more inclined to live separately now that they can both support themselves outside the home, relying on machines to make clothes, clean house and do most food preparation. But new technology is hardly the only cause of the traditional family's decline, and in any case it's hard to get too nostalgic for the days when women had no choice but to stay in the kitchen.
Why, if men and women have more time and opportunity than ever to pursue their dreams, do they grouse so much about modern technology? One reason is that new technologies like computers usually are more trouble than they're worth -- at first. They're hard to learn and create resentment among workers, particularly the unskilled ones who fear displacement and are jealous of higher-paid experts in the new technology. The introduction last century of electricity to factories did not immediately increase workers' pay and productivity; the widespread benefits came only after several decades, when factory managers and workers finally learned how to use the new motors efficiently. Then wages increased for everyone, raising the standard of living and creating new kinds of jobs. Luddites have been warning for two centuries that technology destroys jobs, but the overall effect of automation is to free workers to concentrate on other, less-tedious tasks. Today's workers are richer and more cultured than their Luddite ancestors (and better dressed, thanks to mechanical looms). While they may have fewer jobs in the textile industry, they have more opportunities to work as teachers, social workers, travel agents, personal trainers, writers and museum curators.
As much discomfort as the personal computer has caused, there's no reason to assume that the machines will remain complicated. Gadgets become simpler as technologies mature and marketers appeal to the masses. George Orwell's despair over cars, gramophones and telephones was at least partly due to the crude state of those technologies in his day. The automobile was a relatively unreliable, high-maintenance machine until a couple of decades ago. Gramophones were cumbersome and yielded tinny sounds. Telephones were forever disturbing the peace of people trying to eat, converse or read. The phone didn't become wholly civilized until people were freed to ignore it by the invention of the answering machine -- a contraption that was despised before coming to be regarded as a necessity. Today, E-mail is a novelty that can be disruptive, but pioneers are developing techniques for coping, like automated responses when there's no time to deal with an overloaded mailbox and filters to sift out the junk mail.
Another reason we grouse about modernity is that our expectations are higher. The middle class wants perquisites once limited to the rich, from material luxuries to cultural experiences to intellectual fulfillment. Our ancestors may have been content to pass the time on the porch chatting with neighbors about the weather and crop prices, but they didn't have many other choices. Today most people -- including those academics who rhapsodize about traditional communities while working in offices far from their hometowns -- demand more stimulation than their relatives and neighbors can provide. We feel more rushed because we have more possibilities.
"Free time is increasing, but not as fast as our sense of the necessary," says Geoffrey Godbey, a co-author of "Time for Life," a report on the time-diary research project. "With technology we've upped the ante. Instead of corresponding with 6 or 7 people, we have 150 E-mail partners. Thirty years ago most people didn't bother shampooing their carpets or blow-drying their hair or making their own bread, but now that they have the equipment, they have higher standards."
The most dispiriting trend discovered by Godbey and his colleagues is the couch-potato paradox: people have been watching more television even though they rate it among their least-favorite forms of leisure. Americans average more than 16 hours a week, an increase of 4 hours since 1965, which means that most of our recently acquired free time has gone to the tube. A die-hard optimist could argue that television has been improving, that people are deriving joy and enlightenment from all those new cable channels, but it would be just as easy to argue that they're staring at cubic zirconium rings. The increase in tube-watching seems especially perverse considering that it coincides with a decline of two hours a week in the amount of time people spend socializing, an activity they consider much more enjoyable than television. A society of solitary people sitting at home enviously watching the camaraderie on "Friends" does not seem like a triumph of the communications revolution.
The good news is that people with computers are watching less television, and they've increased the amount of time spent socializing with family and friends (partly because they get together to play computer games). At the moment only about 40 percent of American households have computers, but the percentage is rising as the machines become cheaper and easier to use. Over the past year, home computers have begun outselling televisions in the United States, a statistic that cheers George Gilder, who in 1990 wrote a book titled "Life After Television." Now the editor of the Gilder Technology Report, he expects the broadcast-television empires to collapse -- and an intellectual culture to flourish -- once the masses can easily receive video and text from a computer network as diverse as the Internet.
"When I debate network television executives," Gilder says, "they come up to me afterward and say: 'Look, you don't understand. People like the stuff we put on. We've done market surveys and we've found that people are boobs.' Well, I'm a boob when faced with conventional TV. It's too much work to find something good, and if you do, it probably won't accord with your particular interests. Television is a lowest-common-denominator medium even with 50 or 500 channels. You'd never go to a bookstore with only 500 titles. In the book or the magazine industries, 99.7 percent of the stuff is by definition not for you, and that's what the Internet is like. It's a first-choice medium with a bias toward each individual's area of excellence instead of the few commonly shared interests, which are mostly prurient and sensational."
Now that the computer is combining the television with the telephone, it's clear that George Orwell got things precisely wrong in "1984." He was remarkably prescient to envision society's being transformed by a two-way communication device called the telescreen, but he didn't foresee that these telescreens would promote freedom. One-way television is useful to Big Brother, but two-way communication devices undermine central authority by communicating with one another. Totalitarian countries have fewer telephones than televisions; democracies have more telephones.
Why was Orwell so technophobic, so sure that telescreens would promote tyranny and war? Peter Huber, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute who analyzes the mistakes of "1984" in his recent book, "Orwell's Revenge," finds the answer in an essay Orwell wrote imagining how humans could free themselves of the drudgery of washing dishes. In this 1945 essay, Orwell considers the possibility of paper plates but settles on another solution: "Every morning the municipal van will stop at your door and carry off a box of dirty crocks, handing you a box of clean ones (marked with your initial, of course) in return." Orwell envisions a dishwashing factory run by a public agency -- Big Brother's Ministry of Crockery, as Huber calls it.
"The thought of private, automatic dishwashing machines never even surfaces," Huber writes. "For Orwell, the centralization of powerful machines is inescapable economic destiny in the industrial age." The most graphic refutation of Orwell was the famous Apple commercial broadcast during the 1984 Super Bowl, in which the enslaved masses were liberated by a lone woman hurling a sledgehammer at a demagogue on a huge telescreen.
At the time it was a wonderful image of the home computer's revolutionary potential. In hindsight, it's even more apt, because the target of the attack, I.B.M., which then seemed to be the omnipotent Big Blue, was about to be humbled. It was more Wizard of Oz than Big Brother. The company had dominated the era of mainframe computers, but it floundered in the late 1980's when it faced competition from upstarts offering cheaper, decentralized machines.
As these personal devices proliferate, it's becoming impossible for political leaders to censor information. Africa's leaders can control newspapers, but citizens in remote villages are now getting uncensored news from Africa Online. And as information becomes central to economies, the incentives for tyrants to wage war are diminishing. Military conquest of foreign lands made a certain amount of sense when the victors acquired manpower and resources from farms, mines and factories. Access to scarce natural resources was vital -- in the Middle Ages, armies fought wars over salt. Today wealth is based more and more on information, not natural resources, which is why the Congo is poor despite its vast mineral reserves, and why Hong Kong is rich even though it must import food and drinking water. The Beijing autocrats may have acquired title to Hong Kong's real estate, but they haven't conquered it. They can't seal its borders or appropriate its wealth. If they try to stop Hong Kong's telescreens from communicating, computer keyboards around the world will respond, and Hong Kong's money will start to flow away, followed shortly by its populace.
Now that the specter of Big Brother is receding, today's critics of technology have been focusing on the opposite danger: too much freedom. Conservatives worry that traditional values are threatened by on-line crudity; liberals worry that social injustice and selfishness will prevail in the unregulated realm of cyberspace. The critics correctly see that governments are losing some of their power to impose laws and moral standards, but that doesn't mean we're doomed to chaos and cruelty. Humans developed sociable rules and moral codes long before the era of centralized governments. The Internet may look like a dangerously anarchic world, but it's actually fairly similar to the ancient environment in which humans evolved to become the most cooperative, virtuous creatures on earth.
The original Information Revolution occurred during the Pleistocene, a decentralized era if there ever was one, when hunter-gatherers on the African savanna developed a powerful new computer: the human brain. The brain evolved to its large size because its information-processing capacity enabled humans to band together and increase their chances of survival. The size of a primate's brain correlates directly with the size of its social group, and the formula worked out by scientists indicates that the human brain is sized for a group of about 150, which by no coincidence is the number in a typical band of hunter-gatherers.
The large brain enabled our ancestors to work together because they had so much information about one another. They knew whom to trust because they could store memories of past behavior and obtain news about others' reputations. They developed instincts and customs that stigmatized selfishness and encouraged voluntary cooperation, especially within the band but also with outsiders. Other animals make sacrifices for the common good of their immediate kin, performing acts of altruism that insure the survival of their mutual genes, but humans go further. "We are just about the only animals who act altruistically toward nonrelatives," says Matt Ridley, a zoologist and the author of "The Origins of Virtue," a new book analyzing the evolution and economics of cooperative behavior. "Humans can be selfish, of course, but what makes us special is our instinct to be nice to one another. Every culture defines virtue almost exclusively as pro-social behavior, and vice as antisocial behavior."
This cooperative spirit has made possible the division of labor, which has been the source of all wealth, technology and culture. Just as Stone Age toolmakers independently developed complex trading networks for obtaining rock blades from distant tribes, 11th-century merchants established a trading system across Europe without any central guidance or enforcement authority. The merchants traveling among disparate kingdoms developed their own legal code and observed it voluntarily because they knew that a violator would be ostracized and unable to conduct business. The mere communication of information was enough to make them behave honorably.
"The Information Revolution is taking us back toward our better social instincts," Ridley says. "The Industrial Revolution helped centralize authority, creating hierarchical bureaucracies that tried to coerce cooperation but often brought out the most selfish instincts in both the rulers and their subjects. The way to regain community spirit is to have small institutions and horizontal networks of equals who voluntarily cooperate, like the people you see chatting on the Internet today. These virtual communities formed spontaneously because our brains are naturally inclined to this sort of information exchange. It's what we spent most of our time doing in the Pleistocene."
The Pleistocene savanna makes a good image for the Internet: a wide-open frontier being settled without any central planning. A few sociopaths are out there spreading computer viruses, and encounters among strangers can provoke viciously uncivil "flame" wars. But rules of etiquette are evolving as people coalesce into communities and networks. By trading information, they're discovering whom to trust and whom to avoid. They're writing E-mail letters to relatives and scheduling meetings with friends. Some, like merchants, are cooperating for profit, but a surprising number seem to be acting out of pure goodwill. They're freely providing information, from software to consumer advice to counsel for the lovelorn.
Most of the information is of no interest to most people, which is why the Internet can seem so pointless. My first few forays persuaded me that it was the world's most effective way to waste time. But in researching this article, I decided to give it another try. I had just read a good review of "Data Smog," a book by David Shenk about the dangers of the Information Revolution, so I looked for it among the 2.5 million books at the Amazon.com Web site. I found it right away, along with an assortment of reviews from newspapers and magazines. Some of the most succinct analysis ("Excellent at describing info glut, not so hot at solutions") came from laypeople who had volunteered their own comments.
There was also an area -- "Check out these titles!" -- listing other books ordered by buyers of this one, an extraordinarily useful cross-referencing feature. I began clicking from book to book, each time benefiting from the expertise of previous buyers to discover new related titles. It was like going from one Pleistocene water hole to another, at each stop picking up advice and directions to the next one.
Within a couple of hours I had found enough technophobic literature to keep George Orwell happy for years -- hundreds of books ranging from old scholarly critiques of the Industrial Revolution to titles like "Surviving the Media Jungle" and "Under Technology's Thumb." I discovered "Technolopoly," by Neil Postman, revealing that America has become the world's "totalitarian technocracy," a place with no "transcendent sense of purpose or meaning."
Within a week, Amazon.com had graciously delivered to my door a small library assailing its own electronic technology. I read "Data Smog" -- which decried the Internet's "fragmented, asynchronous, decentralized 'free-market' culture where the public good is sacrificed" -- as well as Clifford Stoll's "Silicon Snake Oil" and "Amusing Ourselves to Death," another lament by Postman. I went through treatises on information have-nots and spiritually deprived Internet surfers. I learned about a degraded electronic culture that is rendering books obsolete -- an ominous trend revealed in books purchased on line at the largest, most helpful bookstore in history. I tried to take the warnings seriously, but as the experts described the terrible plight of Americans drowning in data, there was something I couldn't get out of my mind.
It was the line spoken by Emperor Joseph II after the premiere of "The Abduction From the Seraglio": "Too many notes, my dear Mozart." He was expressing the feeling common among the day's elite that Mozart's complex music was too fast-paced and stimulating for the average listener.
Like new music, new technology is always disturbing, especially to the establishment, and it always causes unforeseen problems. The agricultural and industrial revolutions were accompanied by new plagues, pollutants and weapons of destruction. Today's revolution will bring troubles and trade-offs, but we can cope with them. Transmitting information from one willing individual to another is hardly a new menace.
Like Mozart's music, this is something our brains are equipped to handle. This is what we're good at, and what makes us better.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Electronic Gallery: Daniel Lee -- Because technology changes the way we live and the way we create, it also changes the way we look. My image, therefore, is an evolutionary self-portrait a look at the distant past and into the far-off future. My eyes shrink as electricity eradicates the need to see in the dark. My brain and forehead enlarge as information expands my mind. And my features blend as communication brings cultures closer and closer together -- Asian, Caucasian and so on. Only the ears remain the same size, because we'll never stop needing to listen.
 
Credits and Acknowledgments
Pages 82-83: Prop stylist, Melissa Mayes; location, Judie Robbins Locations; casting, Jennifer Low Sauer; models: Jenny and Julie Biancella, Corey Towell/ Cunningham-Escott-Dipene; Stewart J. Zully/Don Buchwald & Associates; Dana Vance and Evan Farmer/Abrams Artists & Associates; food stylist, Catherine Chatham; Phantom Haptic Interface from Sensable Technologies, Cambridge, Mass.; Doctor Legohead from the M.I.T. Media Laboratory, Cambridge, Mass. Pages 98-99: Altair 8800 from the Computer Museum History Center, Stanford, Calif.; Commodore 64 from Brian Mahoney, Toronto; Acme reel-to-reel tape recorder, Apple Lisa and Timex Sinclair computers from Tekserve. Research by J.D. Biersdorfer. Interviews by Amy Finnerty. Electronic Gallery interviews by Camille Sweeney. Special thanks to Maggie Orth and Joshua Smith, Ph.D. candidates at the M.I.T. Media Laboratory. The typeface Univers Revolved, which appears throughout this issue, was published in "Dimensional Typography," by J. Abbott Miller (Princeton Architectural Press, 1996).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); CANADA (59%); 

STATE: MARS (96%); EARTH'S MOON (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (59%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CANADA (59%); MARS (96%); EARTH'S MOON (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (59%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (59%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (93%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); SPACE EXPLORATION (89%); COLD WAR (87%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); FUNDAMENTALISM (66%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (62%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (50%); 

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN NEIL ALDEN ARMSTRONG (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



530 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 9; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1403 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Electricity and Gas;
Energy Deregulation: Lower Costs, More Confusion

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
JUST as the deregulation of telephone service brought down the price of long-distance calls at the cost of a bewildering range of carriers and choices, deregulation of energy offers the potential for similar savings and confusion for the owners and managers of office buildings.
Earlier this month, state regulators and Consolidated Edison, now a monopoly supplier of electricity in New York City and some suburbs, agreed to a deregulation plan that will cut rates across the board by 10 percent for residential and commercial companies and reorganize Con Ed into three companies. The rate reduction will at first apply to a small number of customers, but it is expected to spread across the customer base over about five years. 
 Natural gas was deregulated several years ago, but building managers have been slow to reach for lower-cost gas supplies because of uncertainty over how to take advantage of the lower prices available in gas fields hundreds of miles away and questions about relations with Con Ed, whose pipes will distribute gas through the parts of the city not served by the Brooklyn Union Gas Company.
The Durst Organization, however, eager to hold down operating costs as well as to provide environmental benefits, plans to make extensive use of gas at the new 48-story office building it is constructing along Broadway between 42d and 43d Streets. The building, known as 4 Times Square, will use gas to fuel the chillers that will provide air-conditioning to the offices and public spaces. It will also use gas to generate part of the building's electric power through fuel cells, devices that convert the gas to electricity without any burning and with minimal pollution.
The first existing commercial building to shift to deregulated gas is at 320 West 13th Street, an office building managed by Sage Realty and owned by the William Kaufman Organization. Executives of Sage say that the conversion late last year produced immediate savings and that landlords in New York could collectively save millions of dollars annually by using deregulated gas.
"We saved 35 to 37 percent over a nine-month period at 320 West 13th," said Gene Haran, a senior property manager at Sage. "We already had both oil and gas in the building, so it was a natural candidate for the switchover."
Mr. Haran said the owners of the Kaufman Organization were so pleased with the results that they are converting another company property, at 767 Third Avenue, to deregulated gas and are considering taking the same approach at other properties.
But being first has some drawbacks, Mr. Haran said. "We get lots of phone calls," he said. "We hear from managers of apartment buildings as well as offices in the city and Long Island."
He said the only change was to meters and a phone line notifying Con Ed how much gas had been consumed. Although the gas had been purchased from a third party and belongs to the building's owners, Con Ed gets a distribution fee for delivering it to the burners in the building. He said the building is using a marketing company, Utilicorp in Kansas City, to handle the actual gas purchases.
"Typically the marketers get together once a month and take bids from the well heads and pipelines," said Richard Lorson, the chief executive of Lorec, an energy consulting company that helped Sage switch to deregulated gas. That is, they they compare prices for the gas as it comes out of a well, and the prices of the pipeline operators who pump it from wells in Texas and Louisiana and deliver it to Con Ed's main connection, known as its "city gate."
Because the 13th Street building has the capacity to use both oil and gas, its owners were able to opt for a class of service in which the flow of gas can be interrupted during periods of high demand. Rates for this interruptible service are 15 percent or more lower than service in which the supply of gas must be maintained at all times.
MR. LORSON said this capability allows managers to play the ebb and flow of oil and gas prices to achieve the lowest fuel cost. "The interruption is limited to 10 days for any reason, so you buy enough oil to cover that in the middle of summer when prices are low," Mr. Lorson said. "There is also the option of switching to oil if gas prices start going up."
The new Durst Building will use gas for air-conditioning, but the really new development is the decision to install two 200-kilowatt fuel cells in the building to supply some of its power needs. Although it is apparently the first time fuel cells have been installed in a large office building in an urban setting, the plan represents something of a setback for the Dursts, who had planned to install as many as eight and use Con Ed as a reserve power source.
The reasons for scaling back from eight cells to two for what? installing the cells? the smaller number of cells? have their roots both in the building's location in Times Square and in the nature of fuel-cell technology. Current zoning requires Times Square buildings to be festooned with large, brightly lighted signs -- which are a good source of revenue. Part of the plan was to use the cells to provide power for the signs instead of buying power from coal-fired generating plants that emit pollution. Since there is no combustion in a fuel cell, the emissions are much more benign.
One attraction of fuel cells is that they have few moving parts -- once started, they typically run steadily for about five years. But they are hard to start and stop. And the demand for power in a Times Square building varies widely during a 24-hour period.
"The signs get turned off at night," said Daniel Kaplan, an architect with the firm of Fox & Fowle, which is designing 4 Times Square. "A lot of them are off from 2 A.M. to 6 A.M."
"Signage is an excellent use" for the power produced by the cells, said Jonathan D. Durst, executive vice president of the Durst Organization. He said it was not clear that all the signs would be turned off every night and that the ones at the top of the building might be operated differently from those at the base. He said that with the two cells producing 400 kilowatts, they could handle about 50 percent of the building's nighttime load, but only about 2 to 2.5 percent of the daytime peak.
The Dursts say they are proceeding with installing photovoltaic panels in the building's skin, in another effort to develop an alternate form of energy. The amount of electricity generated by the panels' conversion of sunlight to power will be minimal, but the owners hope to learn how they operate in an urban setting so they can be replaced when more efficient photovoltaics are developed. "This is an experiment to further understand how photovoltaics operate on vertical surfaces," said Mr. Durst, known to his colleagues as Jody. "We are going to put them in different parts of the building and different elevations. We are going to study how light bouncing off other buildings affects ours."
Since gas deregulation has preceded that of electricity, some managers are looking at what happened with gas to help devise strategies to deal with the changing power market. But some experts say the deregulation of electricity will be much more complicated and will take longer.
"Gas is much simpler," said Mr. Lorson. "You just dig it out of the ground and you can use it. Electricity has to be generated." In addition, gas is easily stored, while electricity must be used as it is generated.
The process is expected to be particularly complicated and difficult in Manhattan, because Con Ed owns all the local generation plants and there are parts of the city, called "load pockets," where the Con Ed distribution system makes it impossible to use power from non-Con Ed sources.
"Con Ed will have to sell off its local generating capacity over a period of years, which should solve the load pocket problem," said Ashok Gupta, an economist with the Natural Resources Defense Council, who helped devise the recent deregulation compromise.
The question, he said, is whether Con Ed will be allowed to sell all the plants to one buyer or be forced to sell to many. It would probably get a higher price with one buyer, but that buyer would have enough market power to keep rates high. Selling to multiple buyers would yield a lower price to Con Ed. But the increased competition would likely lead to lower electricity prices.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gene Haran of Sage Realty says conversion to natural gas at Sage's building at 320 West 13th Street saved 35 to 37 percent over 9 months. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (92%); NGG (NYSE) (91%); NG (LSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (91%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (91%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NEW YORK INC; BROOKLYN UNION GAS CO CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (92%); NATIONAL GRID PLC (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NEW YORK INC; BROOKLYN UNION GAS CO

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HEATING; OFFICE BUILDINGS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) DEREGULATION (95%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (94%); ENERGY REGULATION (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); TELEPHONE RATES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (78%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (78%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); NATURAL GAS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (75%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN DAVID DAVIS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



531 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 10; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1485 words

HEADLINE: I Found the Best Trail for Me and My Horse

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN 

 BODY:
ROY ROGERS had the right idea about Happy Trails -- the hard part was finding some in the area.
It's not that my horse, like his owner pretty much the suburban Connecticut bumpkin, had any preconceived grievances about living in Brooklyn. For a while, it was an educational experience. Where else could he awaken to the sight and sound of the Concorde nosing its way toward Europe, a mere jog away through the marsh bogs of Sheepshead Bay. Where else could he jostle for street space with limousines whose occupants, unseen behind tinted glass, weren't just reputed members of crime families: they were his neighbors. Protective of their Rolls-Royce bumpers, they always afforded his shiny chestnut 1,200-pound bulk the proper respect. 
 In Brooklyn, he broadened his culinary horizons, acquiring a taste for seeded semolina loaves and the odd bagel. He navigated a trail, the only available trail, whose landmarks consisted of junked cars, chain link fences and a couple of conveniently placed playgrounds, and he learned not to flinch at the various bangs and booms that peppered the summer air -- the firecrackers, the backfires, the whatever.
From his time in Brooklyn he gained a composure that's made it easy for him to co-exist with the popgun noise created by the local skeet shooters at a club near the gentrified Old Westbury digs where he ultimately ended up. Because after a year in Brooklyn, I pined for new digs for both of us, especially Copper, who was then a boisterous six-year-old American Saddlebred with energy to spare.
I wanted to see him strutting his stuff in a setting where the grains of dirty sand in his paddock didn't outnumber the blades of grass by a zillion to none. Eventually,
a suitably unprissy barn was located that straddled the railroad tracks on the East Hampton-Amagansett border and offered sprawling pastures shaded by scrub pines. Most important, it had access to a shrinking network of trails that meandered around the potato and corn fields and brought us within saluting-or shooting-distance of the rather tame deer that, because they sprinkled Lyme ticks wherever they ranged, seemed to be responsible for scaring most other riders away from the trails.
This being the Hamptons, the occasional celebrity could not be avoided. Copper bonded with a big brute of a horse owned by Jerry Dellafemina, who was then in the business of buying up East Hampton. Christie Brinkley briefly stabled her first-ever horse, a slim gray mare who was a gift from then-husband Billy Joel, at the barn and dutifully posted through her lessons in the adjacent schooling ring. Brinkley, pristine in her Jackie Kennedy riding habit, rode often and attracted everybody's notice. That meant Copper and I came and went unnoticed: perfect.
What wasn't perfect was having to leave paradise for Brooklyn at the end of August; I couldn't bear to turn my country mouse of a horse back into a city mouse again. And that's when divine providence, in the form of a harness racing publicist, Joey Goldstein, intervened. When I told him I was depressed about leaving my horse way out east just to keep him in fresh air, Goldstein steered me to horse heaven: Tom Quinn's unadvertised barn in Old Westbury, a mom-and-pop operation surrounded by the finest trails this side of the Virginia hunt country, 30 miles of nirvana plotted and maintained by the Old Westbury Horsemen's Foundation.
Ten years ago we carted Copper up a long gravel driveway framed by trees and adjudicated by a single octagonal sign that reads WHOA instead of STOP, and he's lived there happily ever after. Gaining stall space in Mr. Quinn's barn was a variation on passing inspection by a co-op board with admission based on the quality of one's idiosyncrasies.
Truly an operation where the inmates run the asylum, the 15 or so horses, divided among several pastures based on who gets along with whom, gallop en masse into the barn, a former Whitney property, twice a day for their grain. Unless the weather is inclement, they spend the rest of their time grazing, napping and shooting the equine breeze outdoors. Or else they and their lucky owners are off exploring the trails.
And what trails they are. One minute you're slogging along a dirt path alongside the L.I.E.'s access road, traffic humming and 18-wheelers reverberating on the Post Road overpass, the next you're enveloped in trees and racing along through the woods with bluejays and hawks shrieking in indignation overhead. One minute you're marching past an estate with a gigantic backyard sculpture that looks like a Calder (and probably is), hunkering alone on the lawn like some futuristic weathervane, then you're trotting past a transplanted English castle with Grecian pillars that lend a touch of ancient formality to its less-than-ancient Olympic swimming pool, and suddenly you're scrambling up the near-90 degree incline of Suicide Hill, oblivious to everything except the fact you've foolishly scorned the purchase of life insurance for yourself and your steed.
Once at the top, you're deep into the woods again, clomping past a ghostly abandoned indoor tennis court, all that remains of Mrs. E. P. Garvan's estate, that and a battered old wooden sign that's long outlived its purpose. Along the trail, the hermit thrushes trill like xylophones and, over on defunct Whitney-Phipps-Garvan Drive, there's a fallen tree just begging to be jumped over. Who needs life insurance? Life is good.
According to John J. Shalam, the president of Old Westbury Horsemen's Foundation, his horse refuses to tackle Suicide Hill, but every weekend morning, he and friends traverse the trails, a trip that can take 45 minutes, if they choose to economize, or requires a good three hours if they make the trek toward Stone Arches where, with 500 more acres of trails, the Muttontown Preserve is waiting.
There are 185 members in the foundation, the only active civic organization in Old Westbury, and not all are horsey: some are homeowners who cherish the bucolic sight of the occasional trail rider outside their windows. It costs $7,000 yearly to keep the trails, which ramble around the campuses of SUNY Old Westbury, New York Institute of Technology and C. W.Post, clear and rideable. Another $3,000 is spent on liability insurance. And Mr. Shalam passes ample hours making certain that the constant creep of suburbia (the Round Hill and Wheatley Farms developments have provided the latest disruptions to a trail system that, along some stretches, is almost a century old) does not smother the trails.
It helps that the foundation is on blissful terms with village officials, including the trustees who approve the easements that allow the trails, and the pricey subdivisions, to co-exist. It helps that Old Westbury's Mayor, Sydell Weinstein, was among the group of horse-loving citizens of this village, settled in 1658 and divided for its first 225 years between 42 Quaker owned-and-operated farms, who got together 26 years ago to clear, preserve and improve the trails. Twice a year, the Smithtown Hunt, a group that's been riding to the hounds since 1900, tests the foundation's trails and jumps in a daylong race that does not, in fact, involve the pursuit of an actual fox.
But the foxes are out there. My sister, Cynni, found that out one chilly November afternoon when we borrowed a horse, an Appaloosa antique named Doc, and took a post-Thankgiving ride to burn off our turkey dinners. Just after proclaiming that "a dead person" could ride old Doc, my sister found herself soaring unmerrily through the air after her vehicle, spooked by a fox that seemed to be chasing us, switched into high gear. She broke her wrist, wore a cast for six months, and hasn't ridden since. I'm not sure whether it was Doc or the fox that had the last laugh.
Copper and I haven't had any accidents to report. If anything, our sunset rides (we're soloists, and always ride in the evening) have become rituals that mark the passage of time like a living calendar. In summer, we canter through thickets of wild asters with gangs of goldfinches quivering above us. In the fall, we know winter's on the way when big gray clouds of Canada geese begin making pit stops in the beautiful poplar-lined meadows, remnants of the old Bell estate, on the SUNY campus. In winter, we're able to thunder along the trails with Copper's hoofbeats muffled by snow; in spring, we linger in the dusk and he roots out the best clover as owls, ready for the evening hunt, hoot from the treetops.
In any season, we make our journeys in virtual isolation: it's hard to believe we're smack in the middle of Long Island, hard to believe that on the clearest nights, it's the shimmer and glimmer of New York City we see from the peak of a hill. No phones are ringing. No horns are honking. No rose and silver sky could impart a greater sense of peace and quiet.

GRAPHIC: Photos: There are many inviting places for riding. John Shalam and Martin Sternberg on some secluded trails in Old Westbury. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: OLD WESTBURY HORSEMEN'S FOUNDATION LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (59%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: OLD WESTBURY HORSEMEN'S FOUNDATION LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (59%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (88%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HORSES; SPECIAL SECTIONS HORSES (89%); 

PERSON: FINN, ROBIN ROY ROGERS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



532 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 30; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Now for Some of the Bad Things

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY 

 BODY:
THE assignment was to write an essay about the worst of Long Island, to temper the accolades about to be recorded in a special section dedicated to the Island's best. At first I refused, offended by the suggestion that Long Island is anything but a suburban Eden, a fish-shaped isle of serenity.
Where else does there exist an unwritten zoning law that requires a delicatessen within a half-mile of every resident? What other diverse population recognizes the Entenmann's raspberry danish as the communal bread of life? Name another society that exalts its women not for their beauty or intellect but for the integrity of their shellacked fingernails; that raises its men to communicate with the revving of a motor and an economical hand gesture, rather than with mere words. 
 But other images of the Island gradually came into focus, displacing those happy thoughts of Babylon docks and North Fork fruit stands. The Long Island Expressway, where the flashing advisory of "normal traffic conditions ahead" is more threat than comfort. The Long Island Rail Road, whose trains seem to run on the life force they suck from passengers. The Hamptons, where the rich prance about the beach in vegetable costumes to raise money for some endangered legume or Democrat.
Here, then, are gentle reminders of what is unlikely to appear in any tourist guide to Long Island, from one whose pedigree is impeccable. Raised in Deer Park (Exit 51 usually, but Exit 50 if you know the back roads), I have consumed my weight in 7-11 slurpees, sliced the sale bologna in three delicatessens, and learned at the feet of neighborhood elders how to mangle my diphthongs (toilet becomes "terlet"; girl becomes "goil"). It is true; I am fluent in the language of Buttaffuoco.
By far, the greatest problem with living on the Island is trying to get off it. Mass transit on Long Island is a contradiction in terms, and owning a car is essential to keeping Island fever at bay. And let us say that one day you feel the need to see mountains more majestic than Dix Hills.
Long Island is, after all, surrounded by water, and its western border is pressed against a concrete-and-steel impediment called New York City. That means that in order to leave your 2.5 million neighbors on the Island, you must first drive through a city of 8 million. Whether it is the Belt Parkway to the south or the Grand Central Parkway to the north, nothing moves but the time, and always in the 10-minute increments of radio traffic updates.
During these many hours of unwanted reflection, I have developed an addiction for the calming voice of Neal Busch, who hovers above us all as the traffic reporter in the WCBS helicopter. Every other day he tells us that our life's plans are ruined because a tractor-trailer has "wandered" onto the parkway, like some stray dinosaur. But he informs us so soothingly that we suppress the desire to hunt down that truck driver to exact some good ol' Long Island vengeance. His traffic reports are about as close as I get to therapy.
An astute reader might notice that I have not mentioned the escape routes offered by the ferry systems at Port Jefferson and Orient Point. There is a reason for this: As a Long Island native, I have a hard time with the concept of making reservations for a destination called Connecticut. Know what I'm sayin'?
Other entries in the "worst of Long Island" category flood the mind. There are the deserted minimalls that mar the landscape, and those small shopping plazas that are like atolls for misfit stores: a pool-supply store, a yarn store, a sports-memorabilia store -- and the ubiquitous deli. There is the puzzling question of why so many New York City police officers caught in some heinous scandal are found to be living on Long Island -- with their mothers.
On a more personal note, there is Robert Moses State Park Field No. 2, at noon on a summer Saturday, with a father wearing knee-high black socks and flip-flops, smoking a Marlboro and leading a brood of translucent-skinned children in search of sand space, including one son so embarrassed that -- oh, never mind.
Overall, these are minor annoyances, because the second greatest problem with living on Long Island is trying to return once you have left.
This is particularly true in the summer, when the Uriah Heeps of Manhattan advertising and commerce clog all roads leading to the Hamptons, where they trust that someone will care about how much they made in the last quarter. Nine months of the year they snicker about Amy Fisher, Jessica Hahn and other local luminaries. They spend the remaining three months skulking about Southampton, hoping to spot Kim Basinger in the market. For them, may the westward traffic always flow.

GRAPHIC: Illustrations by Stuart Goldenberg

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); HAMPTONS (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; COMMUTING; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; SPECIAL SECTIONS ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (77%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (71%); ZONING (71%); 

PERSON: BARRY, DAN

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



533 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Saving the Ghosts of the State's Industrial Past

BYLINE: By BILL RYAN 

 BODY:
THE DARK ZONE. It may sound like the title of a spooky movie but it is really nothing that scary. The Dark Zone is simply a nickname given to the dimly lighted storage area at the Museum of Connecticut History, in the State Library building in Hartford.
If most people have never heard of the Museum of Connecticut History, the state's official historical museum, much less its Dark Zone, there is good reason: the General Assembly provides no money for its promotion. 
 Consequently, David J. Corrigan. one of the two museum curators (and one third of the total full-time professional staff) describes the museum as "one of the best kept secrets in the state."
"We have no brochures and no guides," says Mr. Corrigan. "We used to stay open half a day on Saturdays but that was cut out five years ago."
The library building is at 231 Capitol Avenue, across from the State Capitol. On weekdays, particularly when the legislature is in session, metered parking spaces are at a premium in the area and cars parked overtime are at risk of being towed. So the museum attracts relatively few visitors, at least of adult size. The vast majority of the estimated 30,000 visitors a year are schoolchildren who arrive in buses.
The children wander through an ornate Memorial Hall where paintings of all the state's governors are displayed, by a well-known collection of Colt firearms, by uniforms worn by Connecticut soldiers in wars since the Revolution, by some more recent artifacts like a big hand-lettered sign to "Axe the Tax" that was part of a demonstration on the State Capitol lawn against the newly imposed state income tax in 1991. What visitors, big or little, do not see is the Dark Zone, the back room of the museum. But that may be its most fascinating part.
In the gloom of the big storage room are the ghosts, many of them from Connecticut's industrial past. There is old machinery, big and weighty, some pieces so strange looking they nearly defy description. The one attribute they share is that they were once part of an inventive and bustling economy that made Connecticut a powerhouse of the Industrial Revolution and brought fame and prosperity to it in the 19th century and in the first half of this century.
One bizarre contraption looks like a big iron carousel but in actuality was a complicated machine used by Union Metallic Cartridge Company of Bridgeport to make parts of shotgun shells.
Another is an 18-foot lathe of Parmalee and Mix Company of West Haven that was made to reshape rollers for woolen mills in eastern Connecticut. Nearby is another creation, to turn elephant tusks into piano keys at the Pratt, Read Company in Essex.
Most of the companies that used the machinery are memories now and the machines are disappearing rapidly as deserted factory buildings and storage areas continue to be torn down.
Because of that, Mr. Corrigan says, for the past several years he and his fellow curator, Howard L. Miller, and the museum administrator, Dean Nelson, have been buying up what they can.
"We go to antique shows, flea markets, tag sales, anywhere, anytime," he said.
What they buy is then stored in the Dark Zone or at a few other state buildings with vacant space, like Department of Transportation garages and the former Mansfield Training School.
The state has not provided money for the acquisitions, he says. The money comes from a fund set up after an auction held several years ago to get rid of duplicate rare coins from the museum's collection. And big money is not involved.
"Mostly, we're talking a couple of hundred dollars," Mr. Corrigan said. "Some of the time we're competing at auctions on a per-pound price with metal dealers bidding on old machinery so they can sell it for scrap."
Occasionally, one of the three men will come a across a real prize for little money.
The best thus far is a Weed sewing machine Mr. Nelson discovered in a small-town antiques store. The machine, which looks as if it had been made yesterday, was produced in 1867 on Capitol Avenue in Hartford, down the street from the museum. Weed sewing machines, very rare now, once went West in covered wagons.
Today, the three collectors are bidding against time, Mr. Corrigan says. "A lot of the machinery is disappearing," he said. "You won't find it tomorrow. The time to get it is now and we're the only organization collecting statewide and dedicated to tell the story of Connecticut industry."
The ultimate goal, he says, is to use the space of the Dark Zone to create a a permanent display of the machines that made Connecticut famous.
Estimated cost: $250,000. For the past 10 years a proposal to do that has been made to each session of the General Assembly. And in each session it has been rejected.
Mr. Corrigan says the museum will keep collecting, and keep submitting plans.
The old machines might appear to be big and ugly and strange, and they are reminders that factories were once safety nightmares of belts and shafts and flywheels and floors slippery with oil.
But industry made Connecticut famous and Mr. Corrigan thinks it should be celebrated. If the official museum of the state can't do that, who will?

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Corrigan, a curator, among machines in storage at the Museum of Connecticut History in Hartford. (George Ruhe for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MUSEUM OF CONNECTICUT HISTORY

ORGANIZATION: MUSEUM OF CONNECTICUT HISTORY

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); HISTORY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); HORROR FILMS (78%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); LIBRARIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); CHILDREN (71%); FIREARMS (69%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (69%); BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS (50%); INCOME TAX (50%); 

PERSON: RYAN, BILL

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



534 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 9; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
Huge Hills Project Gaining Momentum in Bernards

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

DATELINE: BERNARDS TOWNSHIP

 BODY:
IN construction that began in 1994 and picked up momentum in the last year, 1,158 town houses and detached homes have been or are being built in the Bernards Township portion of the 1,800-acre Hills development atop the Watchung Hills, which spills into neighboring Bedminster.
Now plans are moving ahead in this Somerset County community to develop the remaining 735 residences planned here. They will join the 3,000 units, all but 25 built and occupied, on the Bedminster side, and nudge the state's largest planned community toward its final stage after 16 years. 
 The push is coming from some big developers involved in the project who are trying to take advantage of the state's reviving economy and housing market. Among them are Pulte Homes Corporation of Bloomfield Hills, Mich., the country's largest residential developer; Toll Brothers of Huntingdon Valley Pa., a large regional builder, and K. Hovnanian Enterprises of Red Bank, New Jersey's largest developer.
In many ways the activity at The Hills, at the intersection of Interstates 78 and 287, reflects the steady increase in housing production in New Jersey in general and in Somerset County in particular. Through July there were 15,454 housing permits issued statewide, up from 12,341 the same time last year; of that total 1,377 were in Somerset County, the fourth highest among the state's 21 counties, according to data from the New Jersey Department of Labor.
If the pace continues the number of permits issued this year should equal or surpass last year's total of 24,000. In either case the number, while higher than the trough of 14,856 permits issued in 1991, is still much lower than the 57,353 issued in the peak year of 1986.
In terms of new construction the reason The Hills development draws attention is the old real estate adage of "location, location, location," said David J. Schoner, vice president of the metropolitan New York region for the new homes division of Coldwell Banker, a large brokerage headquartered in Short Hills.
The area where The Hills sits -- near I-287 and I-78 and corporate complexes like those of AT&T and Hoechst Celanese -- is considered a key development site and Somerset County among the state's fastest growing counties. Its population is expected to rise to 311,300 in 2005 from 260,677 in 1994 and its job base to expand to 190,500 from 154,500, according to state estimates.
Those factors are not lost on builders who have purchased sites at The Hills, which was born of the first lawsuit under the state's Mount Laurel doctrines. Those doctrines require all municipalities to provide the opportunity for housing low- and moderate-income families.
"While a case can be made that The Hills is Levittownish," said Mr. Schoner, "the land plan there has created nice communities." It also has homes of varying sizes and prices in an area that offers good schools and a suburban lifestyle, he said, noting "people always buy community first."
The average sales price for new homes in the county has risen, he added. For detached homes the price is $397,599, up from $383,325 last year; for town houses it is $196,197, up from $179,902.
The original developer, the Hills Development Company, built most of the homes in Bedminster, including 620 Mount Laurel units, but is also building on the Bernards side. In 1993, it started selling parcels there "to accelerate housing production and sales and take the community to another level with the endorsement of other developers," said Thomas H. Dillon, a principal at Gale, Wentworth & Dillon of Bedminster, a residential developer that has managed the project since 1992. He is also president of Hills Development Company.
The Hills Development Company is a partnership of Saudi Arabian investors and SD Partners, led by William E. Simon, Secretary of the Treasury under President Ronald Reagan. SD bought out the 50 percent of the property owned by Johns-Mansville Property Corporation, which filed the Mount Laurel suit in 1987.
For Bernards, having so large a development within its 24.5 square miles has its pluses and minuses. "I can't say we are better off because of The Hills and obviously most people would have wanted its 1,200 acres in Bernards left as open space," said Peter A. Messina, Township Planner as well as Township Engineer. "But it is one way of solving our Mount Laurel obligation."
The Hills Development Company is paying to have 237 of the Mount Laurel units required as part of the Bernards Township portion of its development built in Phillipsburg. Of the remaining 315 units of its obligation, 225 were built as part of other projects here, 43 are proposed for other projects here and elsewhere and the township has received credits for 47 existing residences.
S TILL, said Mr. Messina, The Hills "is the best we could hope for because it has a mix of housing, is planned out so there are no surprises and is screened from the road so it doesn't hit you in the face."
He said 400 acres would remain undeveloped, adding that sites within that area had been set aside for a 60-acre municipal park and a 12-acre elementary school. The school, to be built by 1999, will help "handle the influx of children from The Hills and other developments," he added.
For developers, The Hills also provides an added benefit -- properly zoned land with public utilities, roads and recreational amenities in place. Among the latter are an 18-hole public golf course and two clubhouses, the second of which opened in June; two pools, tennis and basketball courts and baseball and soccer fields.
Pulte entered the central Jersey market this summer. Gary J. Stefanoni, the company's director of sales and marketing, said the reason was simple: "Our research shows that this market is very active and given the number of corporations and jobs there the housing demand will continue."
He added that buying approved lots at The Hills, which he described "as a high profile community in an A location," enabled his company to "hit the ground running."
In Bernards, the company is building 57 detached homes, with 2,000 to 2,400 square feet of space and priced in the low- to mid-$300,000 range. Since sales opened in May, 16 have been sold. It is also building the last 25 homes on the Bedminister side. They will have 2,500 to 3,000 square feet of space and cost in the high-$300,000 to mid-$400,000 range.
Hovnanian has built and sold all 400 town houses and duplex single family homes in its first two projects at The Hills in Bernards. In May the company started a third, Hamilton Crest, containing 158 town houses with garages, ranging from 1,500 to 2,000 square feet of space and selling for $194,950 to $230,000. Before model homes opened last weekend, 50 units were sold.
Sales are also under way at the third Toll Brothers detached-house project in The Hills, which is now under way. Called Independence Hill, it will have 44 houses ranging in size from 3,600 to 4,100 square feet, some fronting the golf course. Base prices will range from $532,000 to $590,000.Thomas A. Argyis Jr., a Toll Brothers vice president, said the new homes were in response to buyer demand for bigger houses than the 137 offered at the company's first two projects.
Betting that demand will continue, Toll Brothers is under contract to buy an additional 130 acres in Bernards for up to a total of 526 town houses and detached homes. The company is awaiting final site plan approval from the township's planning board, but Mr. Argyis said that as now envisioned the detached homes will range in size from 2,400 to 3,500 square feet, and the town houses, 2,000 to 3,000 square feet.
A ND the Hills Development Company is building Amherst Mews, 123 town houses ranging in size from 2,700 to 3,300 square feet and in price from $371,000 to $449,000. Mr. Dillon said there was one section left that could support the final 209 homes planned at The Hills. He said his company intended to seek approval for the site, but had not decided whether to sell it to other builders or develop it itself.
"We know we are a hot spot," said Mr. Messina, Bernards' planner. "We know what is coming and are gearing up for it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Model at Independence Hill, where base prices start at $532,900, above left. Amherst Mews town houses. (Photographs by Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HOV (NYSE) (58%); PHM (NYSE) (56%); CE (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (58%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (58%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (56%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (56%); NAICS325998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS CHEMICAL PRODUCT & PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (52%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (58%); PULTEGROUP INC (56%); CELANESE CORP (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEDMINSTER (NJ); BERNARDS TOWNSHIP (NJ); SOMERSET COUNTY (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BUILDING PERMITS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); FAMILY (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (60%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (60%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



535 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 9; Page 3; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: YOUR HOME;
Combining Adjacent Apartments

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO 

 BODY:
WHEN suburban homeowners need more living space, their options are relatively clear -- buy a bigger house and move or add to the existing house and stay. But co-op shareholders and condominium owners in similar circumstances face a more limited array of alternatives. They can buy a bigger apartment and move, or . . . what?
"They can buy the apartment next door and expand," said Dan Gerstein, vice president of DG Neary Realty Ltd. in Manhattan. 
 While combining adjacent apartments is hardly a new idea, real estate experts say that the number of such conversions has significantly increased over the last few years. "It's becoming more and more common," said Elliott Meisel, a Manhattan real estate lawyer. "People are finding that it's economically more beneficial for them to combine two small apartments into one than to go out and buy a larger apartment."
It is also advantageous for the co-op, Mr. Meisel said, because a building with larger apartments commanding higher prices is more attractive to lenders and makes existing apartments more salable.
Indeed, Mr. Meisel said, the high prices now being demanded for two- and three-bedroom apartments are the driving force behind the rising number of combined apartments. In fact, he said, when two apartments are combined "the whole is greater than the sum of the parts."
Matthew Bank and Peter Hemmel experienced "sticker shock" when they started looking for a two-bedroom apartment with a formal dining room in lower Manhattan. "The last apartment we saw was going for $500,000," Mr. Bank said. "It was frustrating, to say the least."
The men then found three adjacent apartments -- two studios and a one-bedroom -- for sale in a co-op at 300 West 23d Street, at Eighth Avenue, in the Chelsea neighborhood. "The total cost for the three of them ended up being about $320,000," Mr. Bank said, adding that because of the layout of the apartments little renovation will be needed to connect them.
And since the per-square-foot maintenance charges for studios in the building are lower than those for larger units, the total charges on the new combined 1,700-square-foot apartment will be less than the charges on existing two-bedroom apartments of a similar size in the building.
Moreover, Mr. Bank said, four other unit-owners in the building who are combining apartments have agreed to share the cost of hiring an attorney and an architect to obtain the necessary permits and an amended certificate of occupancy.
"That's going to result in major savings for all of us," Mr. Bank said.
In fact, experts say, the "soft costs" of combining two apartments can represent a major portion of the total cost of the project.
"There's almost always an enormous amount of paperwork involved," said Marcel de Winter, a registered architect in Manhattan. Generally, he said, unit owners who want to combine apartments must submit plans for the project to the building's board of directors for examination by its engineer. In most cases, he said, boards require the applicant to pay the engineer's fee for reviewing the plans.
Once the board has given its approval, Mr. de Winter said, the architect or engineer must then submit the plans to the Department of Buildings and obtain a construction permit. The cost of the permit, he said, is typically dependent upon the estimated cost of the construction.
Once a permit has been obtained, it is almost always necessary for the owner or shareholder to apply and pay for an amended certificate of occupancy for the entire building.
"That's where the biggest bottleneck can occur," Mr. de Winter said. He explained that, even under the best of circumstances, amending a certificate of occupancy can mean navigating a morass of red tape. Overall, he said, it can take several months, and several thousand dollars, to prepare and process the necessary paperwork and to obtain the various approvals, inspections, reviews and permits that are typically required.
But it is not always necessary to officially combine two adjacent apartments in order to use them as one residence.
"From a legal perspective, there are two ways of combining apartments," said Mr. Meisel, the Manhattan lawyer. The first and typically less expensive way, he said, is to own the units as two separate units and provide access from one to the other through a fire-rated door in a common wall.
The advantages of that approach, he said, are that it is usually not necessary to obtain a certificate of occupancy and the units can be sold separately if the extra space is no longer needed. Moreover, the renovation costs are lower because the only construction required is the installation of the doorway between the apartments.
There is one distinct disadvantage to that approach, however.
"What you often end up with are two nice apartments separated by a big, ugly fire door," Mr. Meisel said.
On the other hand, he said, the more expensive and time-consuming option of creating a single entity from two units enables the owner to totally or partially remove the wall separating the two apartments -- if structurally feasible, of course. That option is not available when the units remain independent legal entities.
"You can end up with a huge living room or family room, more light and a feeling of more spaciousness," he said, noting that such qualities could add significant value to an apartment.
Moreover, if the apartments are at the end of a hallway it is often possible to negotiate with the co-op's board of directors for permission to acquire a portion of the hallway for personal use in return for paying additional maintenance charges on the space. Boards will often consent to such a request, Mr. Meisel said, as long as the work can be accomplished in an esthetically pleasing manner and doesn't interfere with the rights of other shareholders or owners.
And what might all of this cost?
"You could easily be looking at $50,000 in renovation costs," said Mr. Gerstein of DG Neary Realty, the company that sold Mr. Bank and Mr. Hemmel their three-unit combination on West 23d Street. "In New York City, renovation costs are never cheap."
Then again, neither are $500,000 two-bedroom apartments with formal dining rooms in lower Manhattan.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tom Bloom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; COOPERATIVES; CONDOMINIUMS RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); SUBURBS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (67%); 

PERSON: ROMANO, JAY

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



536 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 46; Column 6; Society Desk

LENGTH: 181 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Deidre O'Byrne And Paul Staller

 BODY:
Deidre Gerarda O'Byrne, a daughter of Margaret O'Byrne of West Long Branch, N.J., and the late John P. O'Byrne, was married on Friday to Paul George Staller, the son of Dorothy and George Staller of Ithaca, N.Y. The Rev. Charles J. O'Byrne, a Roman Catholic priest who is the bride's brother, performed the ceremony at the Church of Notre Dame in New York.
Ms. O'Byrne, 31, who is keeping her name, graduated cum laude from Princeton University. She received a master's degree in Russian and East European studies from Yale University and a law degree from Columbia University. Next month she is to begin as an associate at the New York law firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore. 
 Her father was the principal of Public School 53 in Bay Terrace, Staten Island. Her mother retired as the school psychologist at the Bradley Beach (N.J.) School.
Mr. Staller, 31, is a project manager in New York for Berlitz Translation Services. He graduated from Cornell University, where he also received a master's degree in public affairs. His father is a professor of economics at Cornell.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CRAVATH SWAINE & MOORE LLP (84%); BERLITZ TRANSLATION SERVICES INC (55%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (82%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (82%); YALE UNIVERSITY (57%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%); YALE UNIVERSITY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (82%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (82%); YALE UNIVERSITY (57%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%); YALE UNIVERSITY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); RELIGION (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (74%); LANGUAGE SCHOOLS (74%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (69%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (67%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (67%); TRANSLATORS & INTERPRETERS (51%); 

PERSON: O'BYRNE, DEIDRE GERARDA; STALLER, PAUL GEORGE

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



537 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 4; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2764 words

HEADLINE: For Libraries, a Time of Rebirth

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP 

 BODY:
DON'T bother to shush. This ample room, luminous in morning light that streams through a glass curtain wall, will soon be the multicultural center of the Queens Borough Public Library's Flushing branch. But for now, it is a construction site. And no librarian is going to stop the whine of a 14-inch saw buzzing through metal studs.
Nor is the din confined to Main Street, Queens. Across New York City, more than $300 million is being spent on the construction and renovation of public and private libraries. 
 "It's a phenomenal moment of rebirth," said Paul LeClerc, president of the New York Public Library, which embraces Manhattan, the Bronx and Staten Island. "I imagine this is what it felt like when Andrew Carnegie was building libraries all over New York."
No longer doing constant battle for subsistence-level funding, library executives say they now count on steady support from elected officials. They are also benefiting from the improved economy.
"There's a high point in funding in part because Wall Street is doing so well," said Martin Gomez, executive director of the Brooklyn Public Library.
Libraries are being updated for an era in which data ports are as vital as dust jackets. But the work goes beyond electrical risers and telecommunication lines. It involves reclaiming architectural features that have been lost for generations, like the two-story atrium in the Brooklyn Public Library's Flatbush branch on Linden Boulevard, which was carved up 30 years ago to accommodate air-conditioning equipment.
It also involves the creation of generous new spaces, like the glass-enclosed stairway cascading through the Flushing branch or the cavernous rotunda at the heart of the William D. Walsh Family Library on Fordham University's Rose Hill campus in the Bronx.
The goal is more than esthetic satisfaction and spiritual uplift. A wide-open space tends to demystify the building, allowing users to orient themselves quickly and figure out where to go to get what. Another advantage is security. Such spaces make it easier for the staff to keep watch on visitors and collections.
Libraries are also being redesigned to acknowledge that they are, in a sense, competing with the likes of Barnes & Noble, which has made homey seating nooks and espresso machines an increasingly integral adjunct to reading.
Butler Library at Columbia University is to get a student lounge as part of the $20 million second phase of its 10-year renovation. The lounge will be in Room 233, originally designed as the business school library but used in recent years as a cataloguing center. On one side will be an E-mail "bar," where students can pick up electronic messages, and on the other will be the entrance to a coffee bar. Between them will be cafe tables and banquettes for group studying.
"Even though the students all have access to the network from their rooms, they want to be in the libraries," said Kristine N. Kavanaugh, Columbia's assistant vice president for libraries and academic computing. She was not alone in noting the libraries' enduring social function in the technological age.
"Cyberspace is pretty arid," said Brian J. Byrne, vice president for administration at Fordham, which is to dedicate the $54 million Walsh Library next month. "Learning is communal. You have to have a sense of place."
Creating a sense of place is one goal of the $25 million renovation planned at the New York Public Library of the Performing Arts, which has been hiding in plain sight at Lincoln Center for three decades. Unknown to most of the millions who pass below, the deep roof slab of the Vivian Beaumont Theater actually contains the library's stacks, reading and viewing rooms and offices. Broad new windows are to be opened on three sides of the travertine-clad slab as part of the library's first major makeover since its 1965 debut.
"The building is bursting at the seams," said Robert Marx, the library's executive director. "This building was never meant to accommodate 400,000 people a year." Sometimes, he said, there are lines of researchers waiting to get into the theater division.
There are lines, too, outside branches of the Brooklyn system, Mr. Gomez said: youngsters arriving after school to use the computers inside, sometimes waiting 90 minutes just for the chance to log on.
"You don't want to turn people away," he said. "But that's a strong statement that we're doing something right and that buildings created at the turn of the century have not only met their demand but are being challenged to meet greater demands."
Mr. LeClerc said 750,000 people used the new Science, Industry and Business Library at Madison Avenue and 34th Street in its first year. "New Yorkers want libraries that are well stocked, comfortable and technologically sophisticated," he said.
And elected officials, including Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, Speaker Peter F. Vallone, Borough Presidents and City Council members have taken notice. The city's Department of Design and Construction said that it spent $21.1 million on 73 library projects in the last fiscal year, almost triple what was spent in the 1990 fiscal year.
At the beginning of the decade, budget cutting had pared service at some branch libraries to two days a week. But in 1992, Mayor David N. Dinkins restored five-day-a-week service throughout the system, raising it to six days in 1993.
From all points, the message seems clear. "Books are here to stay and people are here to stay," said Marshall Rose, chairman of the New York Public Library and managing partner of the Georgetown Group, a real estate development and financial services company. "We have an obligation to give people the sense of humanity that comes from working in grand spaces."
Perhaps the grandest space of any is Room 315, the Main Reading Room of the New York Public Library's central building on Fifth Avenue, which is now known as the Center for the Humanities.
The room was closed two months ago for a $15 million renovation that is meant to enhance its utility and recover its Beaux-Arts splendor. The project has been underwritten by Frederick P. Rose, chairman of Rose Associates, and his wife Sandra Priest Rose, a member of the library's board.
A scaffold now reaches to the heavens -- or at least the clouds that roll across vast ceiling murals by James Wall Finn, 51 feet overhead. The chandeliers are swaddled in bubble-wrap cocoons and the ranks of jade-colored lampshades on the desktops resemble a ghostly millinery display.
The architects are Davis Brody Bond, a Manhattan firm that is responsible for the overall $70 million renovation of the central building in a series of projects running through 2001. With Garrison McNeil, the firm is also designing the new Langston Hughes branch of the Queens Borough Public Library in Corona.
Work on the Main Reading Room is starting quite literally at the top, as the murals have for a long time been badly marred by broad, chalky patches where water has ruined the surface. On other fronts, seating capacity will be increased, power and data ports will be added and the mechanical system that delivers books from the stacks will be rehabilitated.
With 23,000 square feet of space, Room 315 is more than twice the size of the entire Gerritsen Beach branch of the Brooklyn Public Library, a $4 million structure that opened four months ago in an almost pastoral seaside setting across from Marine Park and to the east of Sheepshead Bay.
But the Gerritsen Beach branch, designed by Ciardullo Associates, has an undeniable dignity of its own. There is a clock tower outside and an airy, gabled ceiling within, supported on an intricate network of exposed timber trusses. A tall picture window offers a panorama of small boats along the Shell Bank Canal.
"It captures the public nature of libraries at their best: the proportions, the soaring heights, the natural light," said Elisabeth Martin, director of planning, design and facilities for the Brooklyn system.
IN its design, its array of resources and its neighborhood role, Ms. Martin said the new building was a worthy successor to the Carnegie libraries -- 67 branch buildings constructed citywide from 1901 to 1929 under a gift from Andrew Carnegie.
Some of the greatest New York architects are represented in the Carnegie portfolio, including McKim, Mead & White and Carrere & Hastings, and 54 of the buildings survive as functioning libraries. Though revered now, however, many have been altered unsympathetically.
For example, the Flatbush branch at 22 Linden Boulevard once had a vaulted central atrium, almost 30 feet high, ringed with Ionic columns and filled with light from semicircular clerestory windows.
Today, as the result of a heedless 1966 renovation, the ceiling is only 15 feet high. What was open space is now a mechanical attic filled with rumbling equipment. But a close look in the gloomy attic reveals six broad arches in the brickwork, vestiges of the great semicircular windows.
When Ms. Martin arrived at the Brooklyn system from the Department of Design and Construction, where she had been program director for the libraries unit, the plan for Flatbush was simply to replace the air-conditioning equipment in place.
But she could not pass up the opportunity to restore the atrium. "Anyone with architectural training who left this building the way it is could not have much warm blood circulating in their body," Ms. Martin said.
Under current renovation plans, designed by Margaret Helfand, the equipment will be moved and the intermediate floor level taken out. A vaulted ceiling will be constructed and the clerestory windows and open balconies will be restored.
Another Carnegie library that fared poorly was the Flushing branch, which was built in 1906 and torn down in 1957. It was replaced with a structure that eventually proved inadequate for the heavy demand.
In approaching the design for a new $20.75 million library, the largest branch in the Queens system, Polshek and Partners deliberately turned away from the "temple of knowledge" paradigm, in which patrons ascend into a sanctified realm.
"A lot of people are intimidated by those kinds of buildings, especially new immigrants," said Todd H. Schliemann, associate partner in the Polshek firm. "We said: 'This is not a bank. This a public building.' We had to demystify the idea of books.
"In Queens," he said, "you have a huge immigrant population that relies on the library system in different ways: first, as a place to learn the language; second, as a community center and third, for research and entertainment."
No Corinthian columns here. Instead, a diaphanous glass wall flows coolly along Main Street, bending gently as it approaches the oblique intersection with Kissena Boulevard. The curving curtain wall actually extends a few feet beyond the masonry shell of the building, which heightens the sense of transparency. To strengthen the visual link between library patrons and Main Street pedestrians, the main stairway and reading areas have all been placed just behind the glass curtain wall.
A pointed exception to this openness is the adult learning center. It has been located discreetly in the basement, out of deference to the self-consciousness of those coming to learn English. The new branch is to open next spring.
VISIBILITY is key in the renovation of the performing arts library, also designed by the Polshek firm. Work is to begin next July and run through the summer of 2000. "We do want people to know we're up here," Mr. Marx said, as he made his way through the sprawling but windowless warren contained in a rectilinear, travertine-frosted doughnut wrapped around the Beaumont stage house.
The music collection is directly over the auditorium. And during the run of "Anything Goes," librarians discovered that the structure was not as soundproof as they would have liked. "Boulez may be in here looking at a Mahler manuscript, but what he's hearing is Cole Porter," Mr. Marx said.
Because there are separate reading rooms for each collection -- theater, music and dance -- lines can form in one room while seats are empty in another. Under the renovation, a consolidated reading room will be created in the western end of the slab, with a new window overlooking Amsterdam Avenue. (The east facade, facing the reflecting pool, will not be altered.)
New reading rooms are also a feature of the Butler renovation at Columbia University, a 10-year project that began in July 1995. The first phase, costing $20 million, involved a mechanical and electrical infrastructure to cope with demands not possibly foreseen when Butler opened, as South Hall, in 1934.
"We need to be connected," said Charles J. Maikish, the former director of the World Trade Center, who is now Columbia's vice president for facilities management. "That seems to be a buzzword. But it's a reality for us. We had to create new risers."
A riser is no more than a vertical pipe. But imagine trying to open a 4-by-10-foot riser shaft -- for air, chilled and hot water, electric power, data lines and fuel oil -- through an existing building with concrete floors that has to keep operating while the work is being performed. As Sean Joyner, the project manager, put it, "We've simply done a heart, lung and brain transplant -- "
" -- while the patient was living and breathing," Mr. Maikish added.
With that work largely completed, Columbia is now turning to the far more visible second phase, which is to begin in January, with completion in two and a half years. A network of reading rooms and a media center, with audio, video and CD-ROM equipment, will be built around the stack core, four levels of which will also be renovated. The second floor is to be the heart of a new undergraduate library within Butler.
The architects of the Butler project are Shepley Bulfinch Richardson & Abbott of Boston, a firm that has long specialized in library design. With the Manhattan firm of Buttrick White & Burtis, they are currently working on the design of a 105,000-square-foot expansion of the LaGuardia Library at Brooklyn College. They are also the architects of Fordham's new library.
Named for a Fordham alumnus and venture capitalist whose $10.5 million gift met one-fifth of the project cost, the Walsh library has 240,000 square feet over five floors. It anchors both the Fordham Plaza transportation and commercial hub at Fordham Road and Third Avenue, and the southwest corner of the 85-acre campus.
THE facade, of randomly coursed fieldstone, rises in a series of complex setbacks to a neo-Gothic tower, complete with buttresses and finials. "That building looks like it's always been there," said Fordham's president, the Rev. Joseph A. O'Hare, repeating the compliment of a visitor from another Jesuit institution.
"You go to any campus and there are a beloved set of buildings and a hated set of buildings," said Alexander Howe of the Shepley firm, explaining the decision to drape a 21st-century library in a Gothic veil. "We're looking for flexibility but we're also looking for a building that's expressed in concert with the 'beloveds' on the campus."
The Walsh library is a hive of electronic information, with 331 computers, 369 desks and carrels wired for laptops and a regional educational technology center serving high schools in the Bronx and lower Westchester County. But it is also a repository of 900,000 volumes, including books printed in the 1400's, known as incunabula.
"I think -- or I want to think, it's too soon to tell -- that this library will add dimension to the life of the mind at Fordham," Father O'Hare said. The building is to be dedicated on Oct. 17 by John Cardinal O'Connor but it has been in service since May.
Walsh Library is already being used by about 2,000 people a day, roughly double the number that used its predecessor, Duane Library, said James P. McCabe, the university librarian.
One satisfied patron is Leo Hoar, associate professor of Spanish, who was found at a cherrywood carrel in the reference section. "I even have a Vatican Library card and these are better surroundings," he said.
Of course, any brand-new building has its glitches. There was the day that Father O'Hare arrived at the electronic turnstiles with his updated identification card in hand. He swiped it through -- and was denied entry by the machine. "All the bells went off," he recounted cheerily.
Earlier this month, this time in the company of a reporter, Father O'Hare gamely gave it another try with a new card.
He got in.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Flushing branch of the Queens Borough Public Library, above. Below, the William D. Walsh Family Library at Fordham University, with the circular tower of 1 Fordham Plaza behind it. (Photographs by Jack Manning/The New York Times)(pg. 1); While the Main Reading Room of the New York Public Library on Fifth Avenue, (Jimmy Rudnick); has been closed until 1999 for renovation, the Gerritsen Beach branch of the Brooklyn Public Library has recently opened. (Roy Wright)(pg. 13)
 
Chart/Map: "Building and Rebuilding The Public Libraries"
Map shows branch libraries in which construction or full renovation projects have been completed this year, are under way or being planned. It also shows major work being undertaken in central libraries. Dozens of smaller projects, many of which involve work to make libraries accessible to the disabled, are not shown.
 
* Branch built by Andrew Carnegie
 
1. Bronx Borough Center (NYPL)
Location to be determined
$14 million for new library.
Architect not yet selected.
 
2. Center for the Humanities (NYPL)
Fifth Avenue and 42d Street, Manhattan
$70 million for renovation and reconfiguration, including $15 million restoration and modernization of Main Reading Room, reopening in 1999. Architect: Davis Brody Bond.
 
3. Central Library (BPL)
Grand Army Plaza, Brooklyn
$2.2 million for lobby restoration completed this year, designed by Margaret Helfand; elevator rehabilitation, multilingual center, renovation of childrens' and young adult wing and other projects.
 
4. Chatham Square (NYPL) *33 East Broadway, Manhattan
$2.3 million for full renovation.
Architect not yet selected.
 
5. City Island (NYPL)
320 City Island Avenue, Bronx
$575,000 for renovation and expansion. Opened this year. Architect:
Stephen Lepp Associates.
 
6. Columbia (NYPL)
113th Street and Broadway, Manhattan
$3.5 million for new library, at the base of a Columbia University dormitory. In design. Architect: Robert A.M. Stern.
 
7. Coney Island (BPL)
1901 Mermaid Avenue, Brooklyn
$930,000 for interior rehabilitation and
new elevator. Architect not yet selected.
 
8. Crown Heights (BPL)
560 New York Avenue, Brooklyn
$2.5 million for full renovation and
2,000-square-foot addition. In design.
Architect: Leslie Feder.
 
9. Flatbush (BPL) *22 Linden Boulevard, Brooklyn
$2.76 million interior restoration, HVAC replacement, new windows and
doors. Construction bids awaited.
Architect: Margaret Helfand.
 
10. Flushing (QBPL)
41-25 Main Street, Flushing
$20.75 million for new 76,000-sq.-ft. library. Opening in 1998. Architect: Polshek and Partners.
 
11. Fresh Meadows (QBPL)
193-20 Horace Harding Expressway,
Fresh Meadows
$789,000 for expansion and rehabilitation (Architect: Audrey Matlock) and interior reconfiguration (Architect: David Mammina). Opening in 1998.
 
12. George Bruce (NYPL)
518 West 125th Street, Manhattan
$3.1 million for full renovation. Architects: Giorgio Cavaglieri and another, not yet selected.
 
13. Gerritsen Beach (BPL)
2606 Gerristsen Avenue, Brooklyn
$4 million for new 10,000-square-foot library. Opened this year.
Architect: Ciardullo Associates.
 
14. Gravesend (BPL)
303 Avenue X, Brooklyn
$930,000 for interior and exterior rehabilitation. Architect not yet selected.
 
15. Great Kills (NYPL)
56 Giffords Lane, Staten Island
$1.1 million for full renovation. Architect not yet selected.
 
16. Homecrest (BPL)
2525 Coney Island Avenue, Brooklyn
$904,000 for major rehabilitation and renovation. Opened this year.
Architect: Edward Rory McGuiness.
 
17. Inwood (NYPL)
4790 Broadway, Manhattan
$3.8 million for full renovation.
Architect not yet selected.
 
18. Kensington (BPL)
4209 18th Avenue, Brooklyn
$2.3 million for new 10,000-sq.-ft. library. Architect not yet selected.
 
19. Kings Bay (BPL)
3650 Nostrand Avenue, Brooklyn
$1.97 million for full exterior and interior renovation and 2,000-sq.-ft. addition. Opening in February 1998.
Architect: John Ellis & Steven Weinstein.
 
20. Langston Hughes (QBPL)
100-01 Northern Boulevard, Corona
$4.23 million for new 15,000-sq.-ft. library. Opening in 1999. Architects: Davis
Brody Bond, with Garrison McNeil.
 
21. Midwood (BPL)
975 East 16th Street, Brooklyn
$3.02 million for full interior and exterior renovation and 2,000-sq.-ft. addition. Opening in December
Architect: Schiffer Lichtfield.
 
22. Morrisania (NYPL) *1168 Franklin Avenue, Bronx
$1.9 million for full renovation. Opening in November. Architect: DCI International.
 
23. Mott Haven (NYPL) *321 East 140th Street, Bronx
$1.6 million for full renovation.
Architect not yet selected.
 
24. Muhlenberg (NYPL) *209 West 23rd Street, Manhattan
$3 million for full renovation. In design. Architect: R. M. Kliment/Francis Halsband.
 
25. New Dorp (NYPL)
309 New Dorp Lane, Staten Island
$1.7 million for a full renovation. In design. Architect: Stephen Lepp Associates.
 
26. New York Public Library for the Performing Arts (NYPL)
Lincoln Center, Manhattan
$25 million for reconfiguration of space, new reading and viewing rooms, new elevators. In design. Architect: Polshek and Partners.
 
27. Ottendorfer (NYPL)
135 Second Avenue, Manhattan
$2.1 million for full renovation.
Architect not yet selected.
 
28. Pacific (BPL) *25 Fourth Avenue, Brooklyn
$1.4 million for interior and exterior restoration (architect not yet selected), exterior rehabilitation (designed by Leslie Feder) and other projects.
 
29. Poppenhusen (QBPL) *121-23 14th Avenue, College Point
$686,000 for major renovation. Opening in 1999. Architect: Audrey Matlock.
 
30. Seward Park (NYPL) *192 East Broadway, Manhattan
$4.9 million for full renovation.
Architect not yet selected.
 
31. South Jamaica (QBPL)
108-41 Guy R. Brewer Boulevard, Jamaica
$3.07 million for new 7,500-sq.-ft. building featuring energy-saving design. Opening in 1999. Architect: Stein Partnership.
 
32. Stapleton (NYPL) *132 Canal Street, Staten Island
$1.6 million for full renovation. In design. Architect: Ehrenkrantz Eckstut & Kuhn.
 
33. Stone Avenue (BPL) *581 Mother Gaston Boulevard, Brooklyn
$880,000 for accessibility improvement, designed by Rogers & Marvel; interior rehabilitation by architect not yet selected and other work.
 
34. Sunset Park (BPL)
5108 Fourth Avenue, Brooklyn
$1.89 million for full exterior and interior renovation and 2,000-sq.-ft. addition. Opening in December. Architect: N.Y.C. Department of Design and Construction.
 
35. Webster (NYPL) *1465 York Avenue, Manhattan
$2.6 million for full renovation.
Architect not yet selected.
 
36. Williamsburgh (BPL) *240 Division Avenue, Brooklyn
$3.21 million for full restoration.
Architect not yet selected
 
(Source: Public library system)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (51%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES AND LIBRARIANS; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; FINANCES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING PUBLIC LIBRARIES (94%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LIBRARIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); LIBRARIANS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (86%); RESTAURANTS (83%); BUDGETS (76%); EXECUTIVES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (65%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (62%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



538 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 48; Column 5; Society Desk

LENGTH: 178 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Lennon Edwards, Monique Carkum

 BODY:
Monique Christine Carkum, an associate at Debevoise & Plimpton, the Manhattan law firm, was married yesterday to Lennon Constantine Edwards, a staff lawyer at Miracle Makers, a social-services agency in Brooklyn. The Rev. Ross Johnson Jr. performed the ceremony at the Tulane Memorial Baptist Church in New Orleans.
Mrs. Edwards, 28, graduated from Emory University and received a law degree from New York University. She is a daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Curtis W. Carkum Jr. of New Orleans. Her father, who is retired, was a guidance counselor at Joseph Kohn Junior High School in New Orleans and was later an adviser in the city's Office of Economic Development. Her mother, Bernice Carkum, also retired, was a staff developer for the New Orleans public schools. 
 Mr. Edwards, 25, graduated from Brooklyn College and New York Law School. He is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Lloyd E. Edwards of Brooklyn. His mother, Lorraine Edwards, is a secretary at James Madison High School and his father is an educational assistant at Public School 396, both in Brooklyn.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lennon Edwards, Monique Carkum.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (93%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); LOUISIANA, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: DEBEVOISE & PLIMPTON LLP (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); LOUISIANA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS LAW SCHOOLS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (88%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (87%); HIGH SCHOOLS (87%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (87%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); PARAEDUCATORS (68%); 

PERSON: CARKUM, MONIQUE CHRISTINE (MONIQUE CHRISTINE EDWARDS); EDWARDS, LENNON CONSTANTINE FREDERICK ROSS JOHNSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



539 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 6; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMY;
For Clammers, a Chance to Thrive, Not Just Survive

BYLINE: By BILL KENT 

 BODY:
As a boy, growing up in the North Wildwood community of Angelsea, Bob Kelleher used to pull surf clams out of the shallow water with his feet.
"You could just walk a few yards off shore barefoot and sort of dig them out," remembered Mr. Kelleher, 56. "If you wanted a bushel, you could come out with a clam rake and pull out a lot more. It wasn't as much fun as being in a boat out on the ocean. That's why I became a clammer. I just wanted to be out on the ocean." 
 Mr. Kelleher never imagined that surf clams and their larger cousins, ocean quahogs (pronounced KOH-hogs), would become the New Jersey fishing industry's largest cash crop, netting $27 million last year. These clams are not eaten raw, like the smaller littleneck and cherrystone clams. Surf clams, whose fist-sized shells are visible along Jersey beaches, and quahogs, which can be 10 inches wide, are sold exclusively to a half-dozen regional seafood processing companies that use them in canned chowders and fried clam strips.
In the nearly half century that Mr. Kelleher has been clamming, his vocation has changed from a dangerous, unregulated, low-paying job to a lucrative industry that has permitted him to pay for his children's education and foresee a comfortable retirement.
Recalling the risks of the early years, he said: "Every year a half-dozen men would not come back. I tried to keep my son off the boats. He wouldn't listen."
Now, in partnership with his son, Jim, Mr. Kelleher owns four boats, three docked in Atlantic City, one in Point Pleasant.
" "A fellow can get into it now and find a future for himself," Mr. Kelleher said.
That such a future exists is a result of a partnership between the clamming industry and the National Marine Fisheries Service, a branch of the Federal government that regulates commercial fishing within 200 miles of coastal waters.
This partnership is praised by some as a rational compromise between those who make their living from natural resources and those charged with protecting such resources from exploitation. It has also been derided by the environmental group Greenpeace as an environmentally and economically destructive strategy whose consequences may prove devastating in the next century.
Known as the individual transferable quota system, the compromise is a result of a struggle between clammers and environmentalists that began in 1977, when a red tide killed most of the surf clams and quahogs off the New Jersey coast. Responding to environmentalists' fears about the clam population's recovery, the National Marine Fisheries Service limited clam boats to one six-hour day of fishing a week, later reduced to only six hours every two weeks. Clammers who violated this regulation were fined.
"That's when it became really dangerous," Mr. Kelleher recalled. "You were given your day to go out, and if there was bad weather, you could make it up the next day, but not the day after that. So you had a lot of boats going out in bad weather. And, with only six hours to fish, you had boats loading themselves up so much that they went down if the weather got rough."
Then, in 1990, Lee Anderson, an economist at the University of Delaware and former chairman of the Mid-Atlantic Fishery Management Council, one of nine regional councils that supervise fisheries for the National Marine Fisheries Service, devised the quota system.
The Mid-Atlantic Fishery Management Council set a maximum quota for the number of clams the industry could catch (measured in bushels); it allocated that quota among the 140 vessels in the fleet, including 40 or so that sail from Atlantic City and Point Pleasant.
Each boat's individual quota was a share of the total yearly harvest, which the Council has reduced some 30 percent over the last five years, to 2.6 million bushels of surf clams and 4.5 million bushels of quahogs. Like shares of stock in a corporation, those quotas could be transferred -- that is, sold, leased or even used as collateral -- by the boat owners.
The advent of the quota system caused a shakeout among the clammers. "The little guys who were starving were able to get out, sell their allocations, and use the money to get into another business, or just retire," said Thomas Rossi, a Wildwood lawyer specializing in fishery regulation. "The bigger guys bought those allocations, used them to catch more clams, and put the money back into their businesses. From the standpoint of anyone in the industry, it was a win-win situation."
Jim Kelleher, who owns four quotas and leases others, estimates that of $12 to $13 he can get for a bushel of clams, $7 goes to the holder of the quota. He said the new system has caused the industry to shrink from more than 100 clammers to perhaps a dozen.
Right now the largest single owner of clamming quotas, known as I.T.Q.'s, is not an individual, but the international accounting firm of KFMG Peat Marwick, a situation that Greenpeace has criticized.
"The result of I.T.Q.'s has been to take the fishing business out of the hands of the fishermen and put it into the hands of bankers," said Niaz Dorry, a Massachusetts-based Greenpeace staff member. "They've made it more expensive for smaller fishermen to stay in business, and there has been no proof that the I.T.Q.'s are doing what they were supposed to do -- and that's protect the clams from being fished to death."
So far, quotas have been used to regulate wreck fishing in Florida and halibut in Alaska. The National Academy of Sciences expects to release a study of the quotas' economic and environmental impacts in October 1998.
Bob Kelleher's views have not been solicited by the Academy. "I prefer when government keeps to itself," he said. "They sit there in their offices and come up with stuff, but, come the morning, it's people like us that still have to catch the clams. And that part of the job hasn't gotten any easier."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Larry Ramsey unloading clams from the Melissa J. in Atlantic City. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)
 
Table: "What's the Catch?"
New Jersey-based fishing vessels landed nearly 180 millions pounds of seafood last year, which sold for more than $94 million on the wholesale market. The retail prices of some seafoods are roughly three times wholesale.
 
The business of catching each species is called a fishery, and more than 300 fisheries are open to New Jersey fishermen. These were the 12 most lucrative fisheries in 1996.
 
FISHERY -- WHOLESALE VALUE (In millions) -- CATCH (In pounds) 

1. Surf clams	$29.0	48,612,803	2. Quahog clams	15.0	19,742,100	3. Sea scallops	13.0	2,352,115	4. Squid	8.0	25,474,330	5. Flounder	3.1	2,369,134	6. Goosefish	2.7	5,132,209	7. Lobster	2.3	610,346	8. Blue crab	2.3	3,264,454	9. Menhaden	2.1	32,788,726	10. Eel	2.0	231,751	11. Porgie	2.0	2,514,915	12. Mackerel	1.9	18,048,050	
 
(Source: National Marine Fisheries Service)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; FISHING, COMMERCIAL; INDUSTRY PROFILES; CLAMS SHELLFISH FISHING (89%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (88%); FISHERIES (88%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (87%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (85%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); BEACHES (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (74%); COMMERCIAL FISHING EQUIPMENT (74%); SEAFOOD PROCESSING (73%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (64%); FINES & PENALTIES (60%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (50%); 

PERSON: KENT, BILL; KELLEHER, BOB

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



540 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 7; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Q[A]
There's Something Old and Something New as Trades Museum Reopens

BYLINE: By KAREN DeMASTERS 

 BODY:

WHAT -- A glass and steel conservatory.
 
WHERE -- Built as an addition to the turn-of-the century building that now houses the Museum of Early Trades and Crafts in the James Library Building on Main Street in Madison. 

WHY BUILT -- The two-story conservatory houses stairways, elevators and handicapped-accessible entries to help people get into and around the museum. The design was chosen because glass conservatories were common in buildings of the Richardsonian Romanesque Revival style like the library, which was built in 1900. The conservatory was designed to look as if it was built at the same time as the rest of the building, which is on the State and National Registers of Historic Places, said Elaine Clements Zopes, museum director.
 
WHO BUILT IT -- The manufacturer, Amdega of Durham, England, which has been in business building conservatories since 1874, constructed the addition and shipped it in eight pieces to Madison where it was put together.
 
ABOUT THE LIBRARY BUILDING -- The conservatory is attached to what was the Madison public library. The library outgrew its space and was relocated in the mid-1960's and the museum moved in 1970.
The museum has four major rooms that have triple stained glass windows, eight large brass and glass chandeliers, dark oak paneling, vaulted ceilings and an elaborate design of stencils on the 20-foot high brick walls. The building was designed to create "a quiet effect rather than gaudy," according to the library's founder, D. Willis James. The Museum of Early Trades and Crafts now leases the building from the borough. The museum is the last of the buildings in Madison from that era that is open to the public.
 
RENOVATION -- The conservatory was built as part of a $1 million restoration of the building that was just completed.
 
WHAT IS AT THE MUSEUM -- The museum started with the collection of Edgar and Agnes Land, Madison residents who had put together 8,500 items used in 40 trades and crafts practiced in pre-industrial New Jersey, including those used in making cabinets and barrels, in metal working, in making cidar, and in keeping a home. It also has a copper still once used for producing "Jersey Lightning."
"School buses were showing up at the Land's home to see the collection," Ms. Zopes said. "The couple had a dream of opening it to the public so it was moved to the old library building."
The exhibits are designed to show life in New Jersey in the 18th and 19th centuries.
A "Craft and Community" exhibit focuses on four crafts people who lived and worked in Madison, explaining how their businesses were interrelated.
Another new exhibit explores the life of a 19th-century New Jersey farm family, making clear that the children as well as the parents had responsibilities important to the family's economic survival.
"It shows how the different members of the family contributed to the economy of the family and of the community including the children. People don't think of children contributing to the economy of the family, but it was a necessity then," Ms. Zopes said.
Elsewhere, museum visitors can try their hand at urban planning, using floor-size maps and miniature buildings to recreate the town of Madison. Would-be architects can test their design skills using scaled models, architectural drawings and a supply of building blocks. KAREN DeMASTERS
 
Opening Day, and Beyond
 The Museum of Early Trades and Crafts, closed since May 1996, will reopen Saturday, with new space, a new gift and a new logo, above.
A ribbon-cutting ceremony will be at 1 P.M. at the James Library Building, Main Street and Green Village Road in Madison. The day's activities, which coincide with Madison's annual Bottle Hill Day festival, run from 10 A.M. to 4 P.M.; they include musicians, a choral group, actors in period costumes and games for children.
 The museum's regular hours will be Tuesdays through Saturdays 10 A.M. to 4 P.M. and Sundays noon to 5 P.M. Admission is $3.50 for adults, $2 for children 6 to 17, students, and senior citizens; children 5 and under are admitted without charge.
To get a calendar of museum events, call (973) 377-2982.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Elaine Clements Zopes outside the Early Trades and Crafts Museum in Madison, which reopens Saturday with a new glass and steel conservatory. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EARLY TRADES AND CRAFTS MUSEUM (MADISON, NJ)

ORGANIZATION: EARLY TRADES AND CRAFTS MUSEUM (MADISON, NJ)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HANDICRAFTS; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); LIBRARIES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); FABRICATED METAL PRODUCT MFG (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); HISTORIC SITES (69%); CHILDREN (65%); DISABLED ACCESS (57%); DISABLED PERSONS (56%); 

PERSON: DEMASTERS, KAREN

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



541 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 6; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMY;
For the Economy: Better Times, But Not the Good Old Days

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON 

 BODY:
New Jersey's economy has arrived at an uncertain, anxiety-producing place in the late 1990's: It's called prosperity.
The state has now recovered -- far in advance of New York and Connecticut -- almost all the jobs that were lost in the three-year-long recession of the late 1980's and early 1990's. 
 Its clout and image as a center of telecommunications research, one of the hottest areas of the national economy, has grown. The statewide unemployment rate has reached a seven-year-low.
But the problem for residents, and for Governor Whitman, who has struggled mightily to convince voters that things are in fact doing quite well in the state, is that this 1990's-style economic growth is not at all familiar.
The state still rumbles with the aftershocks of corporate restructuring and downsizing. The dizzy pace of change in telecommunications, a bedrock industry, makes the future harder to predict.
And what is perhaps most disturbing to the equilibrium of a place where the culture and identity -- not to mention a majority of the voters -- are so firmly middle class, is that many of the economic gains are going to people in the economic strata above and below the mid-range.
"In the 90's, the high-end occupations in New Jersey have done very well and the low-end have done O.K.," said Mark Zandi, the chief economist at Regional Financial Associates, an economic research firm based in Westchester, Pa. "In the middle tier are the ones who have gotten hurt."
Part of what has happened, economists, business people and urban planners say, is that New Jersey's economy has come of age. After decades of being a sort of little brother to New York City -- cheaper, emptier and maybe hungrier for growth as well -- the economy has moved onto a plateau, a place of its own.
The driving force of that maturity was the real-estate boom of the 1980's. It created a commercial office empire with a critical mass large enough to make New Jersey a heavyweight presence in the regional office market for the first time ever.
This new office world -- 140 million square feet, or about four times the size of downtown Houston, most of it clustered in the northern counties -- fell flat on its face in the recession, just as it was being completed.
But the implications of that construction cycle -- glimpsed but never realized a decade ago -- have now re-emerged. Like a set of clothes that the state had to grow into, this huge, if geographically diffuse city is now out there, and, for the first time, mostly occupied.
"The buildup set into concrete terms the New Jersey economy of the 21st century," said James W. Hughes, the dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University.
The second great force that is making New Jersey grow up is that it is no longer the bargain it once was as a place of business, as compared to New York.
The real-estate build-up contributed there, eating up much of the vacant land in the state, especially in places like Morris, Middlesex and Somerset counties.
Another reason is that New Jersey's economy, though it was certainly hurt in the recession, did not fall as hard or as deep as the rest of the New York region because its mix of businesses was more diverse and thus less dependent on any one shrinking industry. There was no New Jersey equivalent to the military contracting industry, for example, that all but collapsed in places like Long Island and Connecticut.
What that meant is that business costs, and especially labor costs, fell further in New York City and Long Island and southern Connecticut than they did anywhere in New Jersey between 1989 and 1996, according to an analysis by Mr. Zandi's firm.
"It's not a slam-dunk for New Jersey anymore," as Mr. Zandi put it.
Business people and economists say that Mrs. Whitman does deserve credit for helping make the state friendlier to businesses and more responsive to companies in times of trouble as well.
Many of those business experts also stress that the narrowed cost gap with New York is not the Governor's fault either -- indeed, quite the opposite, the cost gap has narrowed because of the state's strengths, not its weaknesses.
But the fact remains that New Jersey's reputation and self-image, along with its economy, have been altered and that the world going forward will have to take those changes into account.
An economy that once prided itself on being a place of heavy industry has seen much of that industry move away.
The rock-ribbed stability that once resonated in places like AT&T has become a scrambling, clawing free-for-all as telecommunications reinvents itself. The corporations that once needed thousands of middle managers no longer do.
There is, in other words, no going back, only forward. Better times may yet return for all the state's residents, but the good old days will not.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "UPS AND DOWNS: The Road to Recover"
New Jersey, New York and Connecticut were hit hard by the recession of the early 1990's. But New Jersey has recovered at a faster rate than its neighbors, regaining all but three percent of the jobs lost. Chart shows percent of jobs regained for all three states. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL ASSOCIATES (54%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; NEW YORK STATE; CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); RECESSION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); REAL ESTATE (73%); TRENDS (73%); LAND USE PLANNING (70%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); OFFICE PROPERTY (66%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



542 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 49; Column 2; Society Desk

LENGTH: 186 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Marguerite Chapman, Webb Ellinger

 BODY:
Marguerite Elizabeth Chapman, a daughter of Dorothy E. and Charles J. Chapman of New Canaan, Conn., was married yesterday to James Webb Ellinger, the son of Dr. Bernice E. Cullinan of Sands Point, N.Y., and the late George W. Ellinger. The Rev. Lidabell Pollard performed the ceremony at the Congregational Church in New Cannan.
Mrs. Ellinger, 28, is the creative marketing manager for Newsweek magazine in New York. She graduated from Denison University. Her father retired as the executive vice president of the mining and metals division of the Union Carbide Corporation in New York. 
 Mr. Ellinger, 43, is known as Webb. He is a vice president of equity research at George Weiss Associates, a hedge fund in New York. He graduated from New York University and received a master's degree in international relations from the London School of Economics.
The bridegroom's mother is a professor of reading at New York University and is the author of "Read to Me" (Scholastic, 1992) and "Literature and the Child" (HBJ, 1981). His father was the principal of the Kenston Middle School in Chagrin Falls, Ohio.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNION CARBIDE CORP (71%); NEWSWEEK INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); WRITERS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (67%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (67%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (56%); EQUITY RESEARCH (54%); HEDGE FUNDS (53%); 

PERSON: CHAPMAN, MARGUERITE ELIZABETH (MARGUERITE ELIZABETH ELLINGER); ELLINGER, JAMES WEBB

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



543 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 20; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: A Bookseller Becomes a Legend

BYLINE: By JUDITH MILLER 

 BODY:
Canio Pavone, the founder of one of Sag Harbor's true institutions, Canio's Books, was reminiscing about how he came to learn Japanese, having already mastered his grandfather'ss native Italian at home, and French and Spanish in college, when the pounding on his store's door began.
"Please let me in," pleaded Arnold Gorlick, a tanned, silver-haired man in Bermuda shorts, his nose pressed against the store's glassdoor. "I know you don't open for 10 minutes, but I must find a book." Mr. Pavone, sensing the customer's desperation, asked his guest'sforbearance to attend to a literary emergency? Mr. Pavone, known as Canio to most people in Sag Harbor, unlocked the door and asked how he could help. 
 "Do you have Wislawa Szymborska's 'View With a Grain of Sand,' in paperback?" the stranger asked.
Mr. Pavone pointed to a table stacked high with books of poetry by obscure and famous authors, among them numerous copies of the work by Wislawa Szymborska, the Polish poet who won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1996. "No problem," Mr. Pavone replied, permitting himself a tiny smile.
"I knew you would have it!" exclaimed a visibly relieved Mr. Gorlick, a New Haven, Conn., resident and art cinema owner. "Bookhampton didn't have it, and Encore Books had never even heard of her," he said, snapping up two copies of the verses, which he proudly gave to two friends who had trailed him into the store, an Italian guest who began chatting with Canio in Italian, and Meredith Nadler, a Sag Harbor resident who had introduced Mr. Gorlick to Canio's several years ago.
Though the hand-painted sign on the door announces that Canio's is open between 11 A.M. and 7 P.M. every day, Mr. Pavone'ss hours are usually flexible enough to accommodate such literary crises. Alas, he says, they are becoming all too common given the endangered status of independent stores like his on Long Island and in New York City, indeed throughout the United States.
Canio's does not sell coffee and is not a hangout for the chic, young, single set. Crowded from floor to ceiling with new and old books and what a sign proclaims as collectibles, Canio's is a real bookstore.
"I've survived because I've kept overhead low," Mr. Pavone said, lamenting that soaring rents have forced so many small independent booksellers to close and now threaten even the chain stores in the malls and other high-rent locations.
Canio's reflects its owner's curiosity about everything from Asian art to flamenco dancing (which he taught for several years) as well as his passion for books. Mr. Pavone, 62, opened this store at the far end of Main Street with his own collection of overflow books in 1981 when most houses in the rundown village could be bought for less than $50,000. But he didn't abandon his house in Babylon and his teaching job in Harborfields High School in Greenlawn until 1990, after his threechildren were grown. Rather than move to New York City, he bought a house in the area. The rent then was $200.
Though located out of the way, on Upper Main Street, far from the touristy center of town, the store has grown in popularity among the writers and readers who live in Sag Harbor. In 1981, Canio's became one of the first bookstores to offer readings by local writers. And in 1983, Mr. Pavone started what became a Labor Day tradition, , a marathon reading of "Moby Dick," the Melville classic that was partly set in Sag Harbor. But Canio ended the marathon a decade later. "It was getting too big for the shop," he said, "and people were coming to hear the 'stars' read rather than to listen to the words of 'Moby Dick.' It was losing its original spirit."
Mr. Pavone, however, has hardly been idle. In early 1990 he started his own small press dedicated to publishing Long Island poets and writers. In 1991, Canio Editions published 2,000 copies of the first of its slender paperbacks, "Powder and Echo," poems by Dan Giancola about the Revolutionary War on Long Island. The book is still selling, he said.
Since then, Canio Editions has published 16 more books, "little works of love," Mr. Pavone calls them. Most break even but some, like "Simply Black," poems by Beverley Wiggins Wells, a local black feminist poet with a national following, have made a healthy profit.
In 1995, Mr. Pavone found that he was running out of book space again. Rather than sell off some of his volumes at a steep discount or stop ordering new books, he opened another store on the pier near the village'ss Bay Street Theater.
The other Canio's, which is run by Norha Barros, a Colombian-born artist whom Mr. Pavone met and married in 1960 while teaching Spanish in Medellin, specializes in the arts, especially in theater. "Of course, opening a second small shop in the same small town didn't really make economic sense," he acknowledged. Maximizing profit, however, is hardly the point. What excites him, he says, is "community," specifically the community of lovers of the word for whom his store remains a hub.
On Saturday evening over the Labor Day weekend, more than 25 people crammed the tiny store to hear Peter Trachtenberg read from his moving new book, "7 Tattoos." The audience ranged from well-known local writers like Frederic Tuten to a postal worker in Bridgehampton, a self-confessed book addict.
Eager to prolong the experience, they peppered Mr. Trachtenberg with questions about his work. Their enthusiasm, Mr. Pavone said, was a reminder of why Sag Harbor has kept its integrity. "Nothing stays the same," he said, turning out the store's lights, "but if we're lucky, despite the East End's sudden wealth, we can preserve the village's spirit, which is, after all, what brought us here in the first place."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Canio Pavone is the owner of a vanishing species, the independently run bookstore. (Star Black for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: CANIO'S BOOKS (SAG HARBOR, NY); CANIO'S EDITIONS (PRESS)

ORGANIZATION: CANIO'S BOOKS (SAG HARBOR, NY); CANIO'S EDITIONS (PRESS)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; SPECIAL SECTIONS DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); WRITERS (90%); BOOKSTORES (90%); LITERATURE (90%); POETRY (88%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); RETAILERS (72%); NOBEL PRIZES (71%); AWARDS & PRIZES (66%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (66%); DANCE (50%); 

PERSON: PAVONE, CANIO; MILLER, JUDITH

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



544 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 4; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1718 words

HEADLINE: IN PERSON;
So What Will He Do After November?

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

DATELINE: LAWRENCEVILLE

 BODY:
TOM WILSON does not get out much these days. While his boss, Governor Whitman, crisscrosses the state in search of votes, he remains holed up in an office suite here, running meetings, taking calls and keeping tabs on the opposition.
Because even though Mr. Wilson is the Governor's campaign manager, she does not want him glued to her elbow, whispering advice in her ear. Instead, his job is to hang around campaign headquarters seven days a week and make sure everything -- from ordering office supplies to rebutting criticism from Mrs. Whitman's Democratic challenger, State Senator James E. McGreevey -- goes off without a hitch. 
 "It's not my job to make a candidate, especially in this case," Mr. Wilson said on Tuesday, sitting in his office while phones trilled constantly outside the door. "It's a well-known truth that if anyone ever tries to get this Governor to say something she doesn't believe in, they fail miserably. I learned that early."
That and everything else about the job, it seems. At the tender age of 30, Mr. Wilson is running a closely watched, unexpectedly competitive campaign for one of the nation's best-known governors. Although he has never managed a statewide campaign before, much less one attracting national attention, he has been mapping strategies for politicians since 1987, when he was 20. One basic tenet applies to every race, no matter who the candidate, Mr. Wilson said.
"Elections are about winning 50 percent plus one more point," he said. "It doesn't matter whether it's a campaign for President or for local council. The techniques and the planning process, it's all the same."
Much of the job comes down to common sense. Never schedule big campaign events on Fridays, because, as Mr. Wilson said, "nobody reads the Saturday papers." Resist the urge to root through the trash outside the opponent's campaign headquarters. If your candidate's allergies are giving her laryngitis, as was the case with Mrs. Whitman last week, lighten her schedule.
"I have to be mindful that she's only a human being," Mr. Wilson said. "She needs time to eat, to sleep, to rest. She can't start every day at 7 A.M. and end at 8 P.M. and still be O.K."
To make sure Mrs. Whitman and her image remain healthy between now and Election Day, Mr. Wilson has hired a staff of 20 schedulers, media-relations people, researchers and others who keep track of finances, all of whom meet three mornings a week to discuss their roles in the Governor's campaign schedule for the next 10 days. Their office is a cross between an airport control tower and a fraternity house, with maps hung everywhere, computer screens glowing and pizza boxes on the floor. A six-month-old piece of pizza has been taped to one door, and a picture of Mr. McGreevey from his high school yearbook, unearthed by mischievous Whitman operatives, has been posted prominently.
"It's important to have fun," said Mr. Wilson, who seemed especially proud of the fossilized pizza slice.
Although Mrs. Whitman rarely visits her campaign headquarters, every Thursday or Friday she meets with Mr. Wilson and at least three other strategists: Michael E. Murphy, the Governor's chief political consultant; Cliff Pintak, Mr. Murphy's partner; Lyn Nofziger, a former aide to President Ronald Reagan and an old friend of Mrs. Whitman who is also a consultant, and Dave Sackett, who conducts polls for the campaign. Others, like Dan Todd, the Governor's brother and the campaign's finance director, and Harriet Derman, her chief of staff, might also attend.
"We spend two hours putting everything on the table, and the Governor says, 'I feel most comfortable going this way or that way." ' Mr. Wilson said. "We try to make our critical decisions, talking about what a spot looks like or what we hear to be the latest line of attack from the McGreevey camp."
When he is not in meetings, Mr. Wilson is usually on the phone, talking to Mr. Murphy, Mr. Nofziger, Ms. Derman or Becky Taylor, the Governor's press secretary. He also takes dozens of calls from "friends and talkers in the field," including Republican mayors, legislators and donors who want to pass on advice for Mrs. Whitman or simply want her to visit their town. Mr. Wilson, who grew up in Bridgewater and left New Jersey only to attend college at the University of Vermont, said that knowing so many people makes his job harder than that of Mr. McGreevey's campaign manager, Doug Heyl, who is from South Carolina. (Mr. Heyl declined an invitation to be interviewed for a separate article about his role in the McGreevey campaign.)
On the other hand, knowing all the Republican movers and shakers in New Jersey has been the key to Mr. Wilson's rapid ascent in the party. His first political role model was State Senator Raymond Bateman, a powerful Republican from Somerville who is a family friend and Mr. Wilson's godfather. When Mr. Bateman tried to unseat Gov. Brendan T. Byrne, a Democrat, in 1977, 10-year-old Tom Wilson helped served the pancakes at his fund-raising breakfasts.
That early foray into politics did not hook Mr. Wilson, who said he never even considered participating in student government at Bridgewater-Raritan High School East, playing on the golf team instead. But by the time Mr. Wilson enrolled at the University of Vermont in 1985, President Reagan was at the height of his popularity and Mr. Wilson, intrigued by Mr. Reagan's ability to charm the masses, began paying attention to his policies.
"He had such an enormous amount of charisma," Mr. Wilson said. "Obviously when you're attracted to someone from that perspective, you start listening to what they have to say."
Mr. Wilson declared a major in political science, and after his sophomore year, his family connection started paying off. A son of Mr. Bateman who was working for Gov. Thomas H. Kean arranged a summer job for Mr. Wilson in the State House, helping members of the Assembly plan re-election campaigns. He liked the job so much that he put college on hold, spending that fall analyzing voting precincts on behalf of Assembly incumbents.
FROM then on, Mr. Wilson said, college was a blur. After graduating in 1989, he called Garabed (Chuck) Haytaian, then chairman of the Assembly Republican Majority, a state Republican fund-raising organization, who hired him to help plan re-election campaigns for Assembly incumbents. Although the Republicans lost the majority that year, Gov. Jim Florio's $2.8 billion tax increase changed their luck.
"It was great to be there to catch the fumble when it happened," said Mr. Wilson, who ran the fund-raising organization through the legislative elections of 1991. By then, Mr. Haytaian had become a mentor to Mr. Wilson and as the new Speaker of the Assembly, he hired Mr. Wilson, then 24, as the director of his office.
By the end of 1992, Mr. Wilson was dating Lysa Israel, a former co-worker from the Assembly Republican Majority, who convinced him to join her on the campaign staff of Carey Edwards, a Republican gubernatorial candidate who lost the 1993 primary to a fairly obscure opponent: Christine Todd Whitman. Mr. Wilson and Ms. Israel married that year, and Ms. Israel started a company that now helps raise funds for the Whitman campaign.
Mr. Wilson continued networking with Republicans between 1993 and 1995, when he worked for David Welch, a political consultant, on New Jersey legislative races. His career got another boost in 1995, when Mr. Haytaian was tapped to be chairman of the Republican State Committee and made Mr. Wilson, then 27, his executive director.
Mr. Haytaian, who is still chairman of the Republican State Committee, said in an interview that Mr. Wilson had three qualities that impressed him early on.
"He was bright, articulate and aggressive," Mr. Haytaian said. "He was also Ray Bateman's godson, and Ray and I have been friends forever."
It was Mr. Haytaian who urged Governor Whitman to hire Mr. Wilson as her campaign manager. Although Mr. Haytaian said he never thought Mr. Wilson's age or lack of experience running statewide campaigns were an issue, Mr. Wilson said he wavered when Peter Verneiro, then the Governor's chief of staff, approached him about the job early in 1996.
"I though there would be a whole host of other people who would be way ahead in line, who were a lot smarter about this stuff," Mr. Wilson said. But after several long talks with Mr. Verneiro, he changed his mind.
"This is my state, I know it," he said. "And I'd been getting up to speed for 29 years at that point."
But now that Mr. Wilson is proving he can manage a gubernatorial campaign, he is thinking that he doesn't want to do it again. He would eventually like to open a bed-and-breakfast in Vermont or on the Jersey Shore, but for now, journalism and public relations are more likely choices, he said.
Mr. Wilson said that after Election Day, he would vacation in the Caribbean, peruse all his back issues of Bon Appetit and return to his favorite hobby, cooking. To keep up his energy between now and then, Mr. Wilson said he planned to emerge from his office occasionally to hit the campaign trail.
"Dealing with minutiae, consultants, staff, you forget that what this is really about is 7 million New Jerseyans who by and large happen to really like the Governor," he said, sounding downright gushy. "I head out there when I need a dose of vitamin C. That's Vitamin Christie."
 
A Republican Resume
 
AGE: 30
TOWN: Montgomery Township
EDUCATION: Bridgewater-Raritan High School East, 1985; University of Vermont in Burlington, B.A. in political science with a minor in economics, 1989.
CAREER: political director of Assembly Republican Majority, 1990-1991; director of the Assembly Speaker's office, 1991-92; political director pf Republican State Committee, 1992; strategist for gubernatorial campaign of Carey Edwards, 1992-1993; strategist working for David Welch, a consultant for legislative candidates in New Jersey, 1993-1995; executive director of Republican State Committee, 1995-1996.
FAMILY: Married to Lysa Israel, whose fund-raising firm, Israel & Slomka of Princeton, is on contract to the Whitman campaign. They have a golden retriever named Jersey.
HOBBIES: cooking; golf.
LAST BOOK READ: "A Civil Action" by Jonathan Harr.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Wilson, at campaign headquarters in Lawrenceville. "It's important to have fun," he says of his seven-day-a-week job. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) GOVERNORS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLITICS (77%); EAR NOSE & THROAT DISORDERS (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (50%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); WILSON, TOM; MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (SEN); GOODNOUGH, ABBY THOMAS J WILSON (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



545 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 2; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: ON POLITICS;
It's Not the Economy, It's the Monthly Bills

BYLINE: By Jennifer Preston; Jennifer Preston is Trenton bureau chief of The New York Times.

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
The national economy must be doing better if voters in New Jersey, and Virginia, the only states with gubernatorial elections this year, are preoccupied with the cost of running a car.
In New Jersey, it is the cost of automobile insurance that is dominating the debate in the race between Governor Whitman and her Democratic opponent, State Senator James E. McGreevey. 
 In Virginia, it is a personal property tax on cars that is infuriating voters and prompting both the Republican and Democratic gubernatorial candidates there to say they will consider eliminating that tax and come up with alternative sources of revenue.
So, why auto insurance and excise taxes? As one political expert said, voters focus on minor irritants during a strong economy when they are not as worried about the next paycheck. It would be easy to conclude that voters here in New Jersey, and perhaps in Virginia, are just cranky and have nothing else to complain about it.
But interviews with dozens of New Jerseyans over the last few weeks suggest that they are not just bellyaching. There is a high level of frustration over the cost of auto insurance, as well as property taxes, here in New Jersey because voters do not believe that they are getting ahead despite the strength in the economy and Governor Whitman's tax cuts.
Only 16 percent of New Jerseyans surveyed in the most recent New York Times/CBS News Poll believe that their state income taxes have gone down. Another 28 percent said that their income taxes have gone up. The the largest share of respondents, 43 percent, said their state income taxes had remained the same.
Why did 40 percent of those surveyed in the same poll spontaneously cite the cost of auto insurance as their top concern, and property taxes as their next biggest gripe? Their concerns over these two issues reflect the growing financial pressures on many working families and senior citizens to make ends meet. Unlike the telephone bill or the electric bill, or even the mortgage, the property tax bill and the auto insurance bill are two bills that voters believe government can lower. They are two measures that they can point to and argue, rightfully, that government can do something about.
As everyone knows by now, New Jerseyans pay the highest auto insurance rates in the nation. The average cost of auto insurance per vehicle in the state is $1,113. And according to a recent study by the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy in Washington, New Jerseyans also pay the highest property tax bills. The average young married couple who own a home in New Jersey paid $3,562 in property taxes in 1995. The next highest property tax bills were in Connecticut. The average bill there is $2,573.
The Dow may be soaring, but not everyone in the state is benefiting from the Wall Street boom. New Jersey may be on the verge of replacing all of the jobs that the state lost in the recession of the late 1980's and early 1990's. However, many of the jobs lost were in manufacturing, where workers without college educations could rely on getting decent salaries and benefits. Many of the new jobs are in the service industry. They do not pay nearly as well, and they do not always come with benefits.
Meanwhile, property taxes and automobile insurance bills continued to rise over the last four years, further squeezing already tight household budgets across the state. And while Governor Whitman has taken some steps to address both bills, polls show that voters do not think that she has done enough.
"In our family, two 80-year-old widows had to give up their homes because they could not afford the property taxes on their homes," said Jean Phillips, 50, of Roselle. "The property taxes on one house was $7,800 a year. On the other house, the property taxes were $5,500. This is not the American way. And the cost of automobile insurance is outrageous."
Mrs. Phillips said that she voted for the Governor in 1993. "I will not vote for her again," she said. "I don't think that she has done anything."
Mr. McGreevey is seeking to tap into this frustration and anger among voters who want government to do something to ease their daily financial pressures. Last week, he unleashed his first television advertisement spot, reminding residents that they are paying the nation's highest auto insurance and property tax rates. His campaign advisers said that they will focus on these two issues and education.
Mr. McGreevey is getting the attention of voters by recognizing their plight. But empathy alone will not help him win the State House.
This campaign is really not about auto insurance and property taxes. It is about paying the monthly bills without relying on the line of credit in your checking account.
In the final weeks leading up to the Nov. 4 election, voters are hoping that the candidates will present their plan to bring down monthly household expenses by addressing those two big bills. Folks are just looking for a break.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jennifer Preston.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; VIRGINIA; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES; AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE AND LIABILITY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (91%); GOVERNORS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); POLITICS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EXCISE TAX (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); FAMILY (73%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (71%); MARRIAGE (62%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%); 

PERSON: PRESTON, JENNIFER

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



546 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 14; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: ATLANTIC CITY;
The Talk of the Town

BYLINE: By BILL KENT 

 BODY:
SPEAKING slowly and ever-so optimistically, Don Williams, the self-styled "conservative with compassion," has been the highest-rated morning talk radio host in Atlantic City since he started his show on WOND-AM in 1985. A transplant from Pennsylvania whose brothers are in the Atlantic City police and fire departments, Mr. Williams soothes, teases but mostly agrees with an audience, that, according to the latest Arbitron ratings, accounts for some 6,300 listeners from Toms River to Cape May.
"They hear us in Rehoboth and there's a trucker that calls in from Wilmington," Mr. Williams noted. "We get all kinds." 
 In the space of four hours on the air, Mr. Williams may complain about how much his brothers are paid -- along with the rest of Atlantic City's firefighters and police officers ("I don't believe in giving a blank check to anybody; if money was all that mattered in that job, why is it that there's never a shortage of people who want those jobs?"); praise Mayor James Whelan, state Senator William Gormley and Governor Whitman as godsends ("If not for them, we wouldn't have a future to dream about") and rap Donald Trump's knuckles ("Some of the things he's been doing to block progress in Atlantic City -- if they aren't illegal they should be").
He'll also dodge a question about his age and bachelor status ("Let's just say I'm old enough to be thinking about things I should've done and the gals I should've done them with"), give his pet charity a plug ("Marine Corps Law Enforcement Foundation, Mountain Lakes, New Jersey, gives scholarships and support to families of armed service and law enforcement people killed in the line of duty -- you can't do much better than that for people who died for their country"). And he will restrain himself from lambasting the occasional caller mentioning Atlantic City residents who have been shut out of the casino boom.
"We get the occasional liberal in need of re-education," Mr. Williams said. "But I don't think they represent the majority view. The majority of people realize that Atlantic City is no longer in the doldrums. We feel like this town has been born again."
According to Arbitron ratings, Mr. Williams' listeners just might represent a majority, perhaps one living mostly in the affluent beach towns and mainland suburban communities that have benefited economically from Atlantic City's rebirth.
Mr. Williams has not won his audience by being one of the attack dogs of talk radio. "I know how to ruffle feathers if I want to," he says. But he will stop short of plucking them out.
"This is a community. Communities are built on treating people fairly and with respect."
Which is how Mr. Williams views the casino industry's relationship to the Atlantic City region. "They are part of our community. If you stack up the benefits against the losses, there is just no comparison."
Casino moguls, he said, "are taking on an enormous responsibility in developing this town. It's not a good idea to take sides when they argue among themselves, but I'll take a side if I think it's the right one."
The side that Mr. Williams has been on most consistently has been that of Mirage Resorts' Steve Wynn, to whom Mayor Whelan gave a 155-acre parcel of city-owned land for casino development for the equivalent of $10 million in clean-up and acquisition costs.
"Bill Gormley and Mayor Whelan did the right thing in giving the land to him," Mr. Williams said. "Steve Wynn is going to change this city for the better."
Donald Trump has used numerous strategies, including lawsuits, to stop Mr. Wynn and and a $330 million automobile tunnel linking the Atlantic City Expressway to the city's marina district that Mr. Wynn made a condition for building a casino in Atlantic City. Earlier this year, Mr. Trump canceled his casinos' advertisements on Mr. Williams's show.
"Didn't bother me in the least," Mr. Williams said, adding that he would support the tunnel even if it did not benefit the casino industry. A resident of Brigantine, Mr. Williams must drive through Atlantic City to reach the mainland. "I call the tunnel the War at the Shore, because it's really divided the community. But the fact is, the traffic in and out of the marina district has been impossible for years."
"I remember when people didn't want the state to build the Atlantic City Expressway," he said. "I don't hear anybody complaining now."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Don Williams in the studio of radio station WOND-AM, where he is host of a talk show. (Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BILL WILLIAMS TIRE CENTER (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY (NJ); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: RADIO RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); RADIO RATINGS & SHARES (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); DOGS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (72%); MAYORS (71%); LAKES (70%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (62%); SUBURBS (60%); POLICE FORCES (57%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: KENT, BILL; WILLIAMS, DON DONALD TRUMP (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



547 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1400 words

HEADLINE: EARNING IT;
Among Those Who Can, a Switch to Teaching

BYLINE: By SANA SIWOLOP

 BODY:
DAVE MOSS had just received a promotion and a 19 percent increase in salary when he quit his banking career at age 35. Instead, Mr. Moss, who had been working as a commercial loan officer, began pursuing a 15-year dream: becoming a teacher.
He had three teen-age children at the time, and he needed 18 months to obtain his teacher's certificate. The switch also meant a 60 percent cut in pay, to a starting salary of $18,500. But five years later, he does not regret it. 
 "I'll never make the money in education that I probably could have made as a banker," said Mr. Moss, who lives in Sandy, Utah, and teaches the fourth grade. "But after I found something that I really enjoyed doing, our family realized, amazingly, that we didn't miss the money."
Career switching is not new to the teaching business. But it has become more popular lately, amid growing concerns over teacher shortages in some areas. And teachers' pay is starting to keep pace with inflation.
Today, a typical career switcher into teaching has been out of college for 8 to 10 years. But more of these new teachers are men, and more are people in their late 50's or their 60's. And while new teachers still tend to come directly out of college, the number of career switchers has probably doubled in the last 15 years, to perhaps 50,000, education experts said.
People who want to make the jump can choose among 300 programs nationwide, half of them created since 1990. The largest is the Troops to Teachers program, for military personnel; it has produced 2,300 new teachers since 1994. There are also programs for physicists, retired engineers, returning Peace Corps volunteers and "para-educators" like teacher's aides.
Some people are still enrolling in alternative certification programs that take just a few weeks; school districts started offering more of them in the early 1990's to deal with teacher shortages. But about three-quarters of the career switchers, education experts say, are turning to programs that are usually considerably longer and often exhaustingly intense, but that steep students in teaching theory, child-development courses and classroom experience.
Educators applaud the interest. They say many school districts prefer career switchers as teachers, and for several reasons: They tend to bring more maturity, self-confidence and self-discipline to the job, and they are less likely to leave the profession.
Still, educators caution, a classroom perch is not for everyone. Those who are happiest with the change, they say, have usually made a realistic assessment of their skills and have some experience working with children or schools.
"People often think that just because they're good at working with people that they're right for this," said Michael Andrew, director of teacher education at the University of New Hampshire. "But they often underestimate the emotional and mental stress of the job, and often they don't have the abilities to relate effectively with today's multicultural, pluralistic classroom."
Mr. Moss said: "If large purchases, money and titles are important to you, teaching is not the way to go. People who are stuck in a 9-to-5 habit or who look at it as just a job shouldn't consider it too strongly, either. In my case, I'm working with 26 different personalities during the day, and I have to take the time to deal with each personality individually."
For David A. Krane, an elementary-school teacher in Lexington, Mass., the decision to switch careers also took a big bite out of his family's income.
Mr. Krane, 43, had worked as a carpenter and building contractor for almost 20 years before September 1996, when he became a full-time student in an intensive yearlong teacher training course at the Shady Hill School in Cambridge, Mass. He had run a successful business, but found himself "running from job to job, doing more management and less hands-on building."
Luckily, Mr. Krane's wife was able to increase her earnings, to help offset the loss of income. But Mr. Krane, who has two daughters, 5 and 8, still had to borrow almost $8,000, as well as tap into his savings to the tune of a few thousand dollars a month. "It began to get quite dicey toward the end," he said.
Financial sacrifices are not new to Pablo Millares, either. Mr. Millares, 35, is a former American Express bill collector who is now happily teaching kindergarten in North Miami Beach, Fla. But to reach his goal, Mr. Millares had to obtain an $8,000 education loan and spend three years going to school on Saturdays and in the evenings. Even after he finished his courses, he still had to take a leave of absence from his collection job to finish a nine-month internship.
Now, rather than spending his entire day on the phone, Mr. Millares teaches up to 44 kindergarteners at a time.
"The biggest change I had was suddenly becoming my own boss," he said. "I was the one running the factory, so to speak, and to these kids, I was a friend, a psychiatrist and Mom and Dad all rolled into one.
"I didn't have gray hair when I started teaching," he added.
Mr. Millares was lucky in finding a job: Just three weeks into his internship, he was hired by the school where he was working. But Mr. Krane had a tougher task. While interviewing for a job in a multi-age classroom -- a teaching approach that mixes students of slightly different ages -- he discovered that there were 350 to 500 applicants for each job.
After sending out more than 100 letters, Mr. Krane eventually landed a job, teaching in a multi-age class of first and second graders. But many of his friends, he said, had to work out of state, because so many universities in the Boston area churn out new teachers annually.
EDUCATION experts advise career switchers to assess training programs carefully.
David Haselkorn, the president of Recruiting New Teachers, a nonprofit group in Belmont, Mass., said that more than 40 states offered alternative certification programs intended to license teaching candidates who already hold bachelor's degrees and who have expertise in a particular subject. But, he added, these programs vary widely. Some require just nine additional hours of graduate course work, while others require obtaining a master's degree and extensive field work.
"Some of these programs are just emergency programs with fig leaves," he said.
Linda Darling-Hammond, a professor at Teachers College at Columbia University, agreed.
"We've found that the programs that are the most successful are those that are usually launched by universities and that have created strong partnerships with local schools," she said. "These programs combine intensive course work in learning theory, child cognition and development with internships with master teachers at local schools."
She added: "The programs that fail are the four- to six-week summer programs, where there's just enough time for orientation and learning tricks of the trade. With these programs, students often obtain very little knowledge of how kids develop, and they also get no special-education training, even though classrooms now average two students with learning disabilities apiece. As a result, students usually run out of teaching tools by the second week of school."
Professor Darling-Hammond said career switchers who completed longer, more intense certification programs were about three times as likely to stay in teaching as new college graduates. But career switchers who choose the quick programs have a higher dropout rate; 20 to 50 percent leave after the first year. By contrast, career switchers who train well have an attrition rate of about 5 percent.
"School districts think they're saving money with these programs, but a lot of them are penny wise and pound foolish," Professor Darling-Hammond said.
Still, for many switchers, training well can be taxing. At the teaching training program at the University of New Hampshire, students first endure a a wilderness week in the White Mountains that, like many Outward Bound programs, helps them adapt problem-solving methods to the classroom. After that, the students are required to run a five-week-long summer school for elementary and secondary students, and completes a yearlong internship.
"This is basically a full-time commitment," Professor Andrew said. "Most mid-career people have saved up to do this."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dave Moss, a banker-turned-teacher, at work with Bryson Ringwood, and closely observed by other fourth graders in Sandy, Utah. (Kristan Jacobsen for The New York Times); Dave Moss, a banker-turned-teacher, at work with Bryson Ringwood, and closely observed by other fourth graders in Sandy, Utah. (Kristan Jacobsen for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); UTAH, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available TEACHING & TEACHERS (92%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PARAEDUCATORS (89%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); CHILDREN (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); LABOR SHORTAGES (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (77%); ARMED FORCES (63%); PHYSICS (63%); VOLUNTEERS (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (80%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (80%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



548 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 13; Page 7; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: LOWER EAST SIDE;
Greek Jews Still Gather On Broome

BYLINE: By JANET ALLON 

 BODY:
On Broome Street, just west of Allen Street, most of the signs have Chinese lettering. But there is a modest wooden door inscribed with Hebrew letters; behind it sits Kehila Kedosha Janina, the last Greek Jewish synagogue in the city, its members and Jewish historians say.
After Saturday morning services, 15 or 20 congregants eat chocolate cake in the basement. Sitting at a separate table from the women, some of the men drink ouzo, the Greek liqueur. 
 They are Greek Jews, from a town in northwest Greece called Janina, once the capital of Greek Jewry. They also belong to a little-known division of Judaism, the main ones being Ashkenazic and Sephardic. "We use Sephardic prayer books, although we have our own special chants," said Hy Genee, the synagogue's president.
From about 1890 to 1935, economic and natural disasters spurred a mass migration of Greek Jews to the Lower East Side, where several synagogues were established. The Kehila Kedosha Janina synagogue, founded in 1927, once had three rabbis. Some of Greece's Jewish population survived most of the Holocaust, only to perish during its last six months, on death trains to Auschwitz or in a death camp in Athens.
In May, the synagogue celebrated its 70th anniversary with the opening of a museum detailing Greek Jewish history on its second floor.
The museum was the project of Isaac Dostis, whose father took him as a child to the Kehila Kedosha Janina synagogue, and who recently rediscovered his religious and cultural roots. "I thought I was Sephardic," said Mr. Dostis, who runs an acting troupe in New Jersey.
Convinced that the Greek Jewish culture in New York was in danger of disappearing into oblivion, he created a tiny museum in the women's gallery. It is open from 11 A.M. to 4 P.M. on Sundays, and Mr. Dostis has plans for expanding it with a library, art gallery and Greek cafe.
He estimates that the synagogue has 1,000 members. On Rosh ha-Shanah and Yom Kippur, perhaps 150 come. But on Saturdays, the number is seldom greater than 35.
The synagogue survives on private donations, said Murray Eskononts, the vice president, who was born across the street. "We have very few expenses," he said, pointing out that there is no ordained rabbi and the synagogue is run by volunteers. "Although we could use a paint job. I don't think it's been painted since it was opened." JANET ALLON

GRAPHIC: Photo: Isaac Dostis, who created a small museum at a Greek synagogue. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "MILESTONES -- Greek Jews: The History"
70 A.D. -- First Jews settle in area that will become Janina (lonnina) in northwestern Greece, after escaping from a Roman slaveship.
 
MIDDLE AGES -- Jews are persecuted in the Byzantine empire. Ionnina is taken by the Turks in 1431. The Jewish community grows when refugees from the Spanish Inquisition arrive.
 
1890-1915 -- Earthquakes, famine and exonomics spur many Greek Jews to move to the New World.
 
1994 -- Nearly 2,000 Jews from Janina, along with those from other parts of a divided Greece are sent to the Haidari concentration camp in Athens or put on Trains to Auschwitz. It is estimated that 65,000 of 80,000 Greek Jews died in the Holocaust.
(Source: Kehila Kedosha Janina Synagogue and Museum, 280 Broome Street)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GREECE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); TURKEY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ATHENS, GREECE (92%); 

COMPANY: KEHILA KEDOSHA JANINA SYNAGOGUE (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: KEHILA KEDOSHA JANINA SYNAGOGUE (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREECE; NEW YORK CITY; GREECE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); TURKEY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ATHENS, GREECE (92%); 

SUBJECT: JEWS; HISTORY; SYNAGOGUES; MUSEUMS JEWS & JUDAISM (94%); RELIGION (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (87%); YOM KIPPUR (78%); HISTORY (77%); ROSH HASHANAH (77%); HOLOCAUST (77%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (74%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (70%); NATURAL DISASTERS (53%); 

PERSON: ALLON, JANET

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



549 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: EARNING IT;
Goal Line to Bottom Line: Degrees in Sports Management

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE

 BODY:
AMARA E. WOODCOCK is an avowed sports fanatic. So it did not take her long to enroll in the bachelor's degree program in sports management at Seton Hall University in South Orange, N.J.
"I was dissatisfied with my first choice and saw the program as a way to pair my love of sports with a career in management," said Ms. Woodcock, 21, who is a senior at Seton Hall. "This is also an up-and-coming industry." 
 The university began the program in its business school three years ago because sports now "is a lot more about dollars, and our students need to go into it with a whole different set of skills," said Ann M. Mayo, the director of the Center for Sports Management. Courses range from sports law and the economics of the sports industry to sports financing. An undergraduate student in the program finishes with a bachelor's degree in business administration with a major in sports management.
This program differs from the usual management program in that the core courses teach students how to apply management skills to areas that are particular to sports, like collective bargaining, sponsorships and endorsements, Dr. Mayo said.
"Students will come out with a broad set of basic skills and a specialty," she said.
That appeals to David R. Shipitofsky, a 21-year-old senior.
"I love sports," he said. "And how many jobs are there that you can talk about last night's game without getting in trouble with the boss?" Besides, he said, "if it doesn't work out, I have all the basic courses to fall back on."
Such business school programs are becoming increasingly common on campuses, reflecting a major move beyond degree programs in physical education for those who want to make sports their vocation. And more and more students are betting that a sports management degree will improve their odds of landing a job.
The competition for employment is fierce, and starting pay is often low. Craig N. Tartasky, vice president of E. J. Krause & Associates, a sports conference and management consulting firm in Bethesda, Md., said the starting salary for a college graduate with a sports management degree could be $20,000 or less, and positions are typically tied to sales. In addition, students who get jobs can anticipate working long hours. With luck, the best of those hired can move up quickly, he added, perhaps to $45,000 a year after a few years. Of course, for the truly successful, salaries in the stratosphere are not impossible.
Students who enroll in sports management programs, while avid fans, are not frustrated athletes, Dr. Mayo said. The draw, she said, is working in a field that "is a little more glamorous and fun."
Other educators agree. Today, 200 colleges and universities nationwide offer undergraduate degrees or courses in sports management, up from 20 in 1985, according to estimates from the North American Society for Sport Management, an academic and research group based at the University of New Brunswick in Canada. Among the earliest to establish programs were Ohio University and the University of Massachusetts at Amherst.
Some schools also offer master's and Ph.D. degrees. Some even have a combination course that grants an M.B.A. in sports management and a law degree. Amy C. Johnson, 21, is pursuing such a combination at Seton Hall. "If I wanted to make money, I would become a tax attorney," she said. "But I would rather do something I like, that interests me."
The growing number of programs, many sports industry executives say, is as much a response to student demand as a way to capitalize on the growth of the sports industry over the last dozen years.
Mr. Tartasky said other factors have included the boom in sports channels and programs on cable television, and corporate America's realization that sports sponsorships, advertisements and team ownership can be very profitable. Yet other elements are the expansion of major and minor league teams and the creation of new leagues like the Women's National Basketball Association and Major League Soccer.
The new job opportunities go beyond managing professional and amateur teams. They include working in public relations, labor relations, apparel licensing and advertising, negotiating sponsorship agreements, organizing events and managing stadiums and arenas. Which is not to forget sports representation, an occupation that gained fame through Tom Cruise's portrayal of a sports agent in the movie "Jerry Maguire."
Whatever number of jobs are available in sports, industry executives say, the total is far smaller than that for other growing industries, like computer programming, and far fewer than the number of people chasing them.
A sports management degree helps, but by how much?
"The degree is not nearly as important as the person's personality, passion for sports and practical experience," said William Allard, president of Proserv, the large sports management and marketing agency in Washington.
Many universities have structured their programs with that in mind, placing students in internships to gain firsthand knowledge of how the industry runs. That is the case at the University of Massachusetts, "where internships are the core," said William A. Sutton, an associate professor in the sports management program.
Just as important, he said, is what the faculty members can offer to students from their own work experience and contacts. "Having the degree is not a lock on a job, by any stretch of the imagination," he said.
Seton Hall's program also focuses on internships. Last summer, Mr. Shipitofsky worked for the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, making ticket arrangements for events at the Meadowlands. Ms. Woodcock has done office work at Seton Hall's Sports Information Center and production management at MTV Sports. This semester, both she and Mr. Shipitofsky are interns in marketing and promotions for the New Jersey Devils.
Ms. Woodcock said she used to fret over "how she would stand out" in such a crowded job market. But she thinks her degree and internships will give her an edge. Breaking into the sports industry, after all, is not a cakewalk, especially for women. "I won't lie," Ms. Woodcock said. "There are days it disturbs me that people don't take me seriously."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ann Mayo, director of Seton Hall's sports management program, confers with some of her charges: Amara Woodcock, left, and David Shipitofsky and Amy Johnson, right. (Norman Y. Lono/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: E J KRAUSE & ASSOCIATES INC (52%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (93%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (93%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available SPORTS BUSINESS (96%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SPORTS FANS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (78%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); MANAGER TRAINING (78%); CORE CURRICULUM (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (66%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (66%); 

PERSON: MARIE-GEORGE BUFFET (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



550 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 1; Automobiles

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: BEHIND THE WHEEL/Mercury Grand Marquis;
Rear Drive but Refusing to Retire: A Case of Modern Maturity

BYLINE: By LEONARD M. APCAR

 BODY:
MY first thought as I slid behind the wheel of a tan Mercury Grand Marquis: "Detroit sure doesn't make cars like this anymore." But it does. The front bench seat, split into two sections, is as long and supple as a sofa. One's legs stretch out in a space that is deep and wide, and the top of the dashboard, which swoops from pillar to pillar, has the look of a surfboard. Up front is a powerful V8 and in the back, the traditional gearing for rear-wheel drive.
My second thought: "Does anybody buy these?" Sure, the Grand Marquis is commonly used by car services in New York City and its similar sibling, the Ford Crown Victoria, is ubiquitous as a taxi. Police departments around the country snap up the Crown Vic, too. But do hard-working Americans, faced with an array of four-wheel-drive sport utilities, snazzy front-drive sedans and smart neo-luxury cars, sign the papers to drive away in what amounts to an updated version of a family car of the 1960's? 
 You bet they do. Ford sold more than 200,000 copies of the Grand Marquis and Crown Vic last year, comparable to the sales of all Chrysler-brand cars, and many of those went to repeat buyers. They like the old-style 4.6-liter V8 with its 190 horsepower and the room for six people. They love the monstrous trunk.
Consumer Reports and other car-buying guides recommend the Grand Marquis for reliability, safety and value. Nicely equipped, the sticker price on the spiffier LS version I drove approached $27,000. But a little haggling and a $1,500 rebate, which expires on Tuesday, can whittle that down considerably.
And for all the acceptance of front-wheel drive, its advantages in snow and its compact design, rear-wheel drive is still preferred by many purists who like the handling and control it provides. Indeed, it is still the powertrain of choice for the fussy engineers responsible for high-performance automobiles like Jaguars, BMW's and Mercedes-Benzes. They like it for its weight distribution and its superb handling in high-speed turns.
Climb in, rev the engine and step on the gas. The hood rises up, you sink back in the plush seat and the rear wheels literally push you down the road. It's a thrill some people will never part with. To them, everything else is just mass transit.
While General Motors and Chrysler have abandoned the market for V8-powered, rear-drive sedans, Ford carries on. With the Lincoln Town Car, Grand Marquis and Crown Victoria, it has catered to a niche that is very profitable -- and made more so by G.M.'s withdrawal from the segment last year. In fact, these are among the few car lines that make money for Ford.
And the company fully intends to keep making them. A restyled 1998 Town Car arrives on Nov. 26, and the modestly freshened '98 Grand Marquis and Crown Victoria, with new roof lines and different front and rear styling, will be available in late December. You can expect more drastic changes in about four years.
For now, the Grand Marquis is a lot of old-fashioned car. I found it easily carried six people, as advertised. On highways, particularly straight ones, it made driving effortless and comfortable, especially with the optional "twin comfort seats" with big armrests and power lumbar support for the driver. Wind noise at highway speeds was surprisingly low for a large car with a generous silhouette. The ride, while soft, was not so mushy that I felt I was bouncing down the road.
And though this is a big, old-fashioned car, it doesn't quite drive like one. Piloting one of Detroit's big old boats used to make you feel you were maneuvering an aircraft carrier. But with a touch of aerodynamic styling the view over the hood is complete, and good visibility to the rear makes parallel parking simple -- even though, at nearly 18 feet, this is one of the longest cars on the road.
Where handling suffered was on the twists and turns. This is no rival to the performance sedans of BMW, Mercedes and Infiniti. The Grand Marquis tends to sway and buck into a turn at even modest speeds. Some of that is because the chassis is bolted to the frame, an old-fashioned, two-piece design that has been largely replaced by "unit body" construction in which the floor, roof and pillars make up the frame.
Mercury offers a handling package that includes 16-inch wheels, a tuned suspension and stabilizer bars that should help the car feel more like one harmonious unit, but this is still a large cruiser, not a driving machine. (Ford says it is making the handling of the 1998 version more crisp.)
Inside the big Mercury, comforts abound. On a hot summer day in California, where the temperature was 60 degrees at sunrise and exceeded 100 by midafternoon, the automatic air-conditioning system cooled the entire cabin quickly and consistently. The electronic instrument panel included two trip odometers, which keep fuel economy separate from day-trip mileage, and the dash included two cup holders. For storage there were compartments in the front doors and pockets behind the front seats. The lockable glove box was good sized; someone had remembered to rig it up to drop slowly and quietly, a nice detail.
And the trunk was practically a bottomless pit. At 20.6 cubic feet, the trunk of the '97 model is second only to the Town Car, which golfers celebrate for its ability to tote four bags of clubs. On a family trip, the Grand Marquis swallowed two large suitcases, two garment bags, a set of golf clubs, a modest-sized cardboard box and four small duffel bags. No wonder traveling salespeople love this trunk.
In the 1998 redesigns, the Town Car's trunk will lose nearly two cubic feet of cargo room. The way the rear window slopes down cuts into space at the back of the trunk. The '98 Mercury's rear window design is similar but the trunk will turn out to be the same size as the '97.
When I tested this car, I tended to notice who else was driving them. And virtually all the drivers I spotted looked as if they were, well, enjoying their retirement -- or getting ready for it. Ford acknowledges that the average buyer is up there in years, reflecting the car's appeal to a generation that grew up in roomy, rear-drive cars. The disadvantage is that they won't be buyers forever.
But there is one advantage to having customers with extra time on their hands. On next year's auto show circuit, enthusiastic Grand Marquis owners will be at the exhibits, Ford says, to talk about how much they like their Mercurys.
 
INSIDE TRACK: A car for the ages.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sales rose for the '97 Grand Marquis, left. The look is a bit different for '98, right, and the handling has been tweaked.
 
Table: "The Last of Detroit's Rear-Drive, V8-Powered Sedans" lists price and features of the '97 Ford Crown Victoria, '98 Lincoln Town Car, '98 Mercury Grand Marquis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SEDANS (89%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); POLICE FORCES (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



551 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING IT;
Roping Them In, With Pomp and Deep-Fried Alligator

BYLINE: By AMY HARMON

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO

 BODY:
THE Dunn cabernet is flowing, the antelope is to die for, Willie Nelson is about to take the stage and, all in all, the 1,900 attendees of the 27th Montgomery Securities annual investment conference here are in a darn good mood.
"Hey, it's a bull market for growth stocks," said Gary DiSilvestri, a money manager from Stamford, Conn., as he practiced lassoing a cowgirl named Theresa Ogas, imported for the occasion from the Riata Ranch in Exeter, Calif. 
 Mr. DiSilvestri was correct: Montgomery's growth stock index is up 47 percent since it bottomed out in April. At last year's conference, which followed a summer decline, money managers were slapping one another on the back with far less frequency at the quote machines, several in attendance recalled. And after a six-month recovery, winter brought another down cycle in the technology, health care, media and financial services stocks in which Montgomery specializes.
This led some people to feel a trifle uneasy about the celebratory abandon that marked Montgomery's weeklong event.
"It must be what it felt like in 1929," said the president of a global asset management firm based in New York, who declined to give his name. "You have to wonder how many future cab drivers are in the room. It's crazy, it's very lavish -- but it's part of the game."
Montgomery's conferences, aimed at luring fund managers from the East Coast and keeping them away from Bay Area competitors while they're here, are notorious for unabashed excess. But repeat visitors deemed this year's event the most over-the-top to date. Monday night's Western-theme social was followed on Tuesday by a Mardi Gras party complete with deep-fried alligator, the Neville Brothers and fortune tellers. Dana Carvey, the comic of "Saturday Night Live" and "Wayne's World" fame, was the headliner on Thursday night.
Not forgotten were spouses (read: wives, as the crowd was 90 percent men in suits and ties). Their daytime activities included a wine tour of the Napa Valley and lunch at the home of Thomas W. Weisel, Montgomery's chairman, with a guided tour of his art collection by the chief curator of the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art.
But then, the company has cause for a little extra extravagance this year, even beyond the revival of growth stocks. Hugh L. McColl Jr., the Monday keynote speaker and the chief executive of Nationsbank, just paid $1.2 billion to acquire Montgomery -- a premium far greater than that paid by other commercial banks in recent deals to acquire investment banks. Montgomery's 68 partners are expected to collect an average of $17.6 million each.
Mr. Weisel brushes off comparisons to the legendary improvidence of Michael R. Milken's so-called Predators' Balls, noting that the optimistic forecast for growth stocks has its roots in an unvarnished economic analysis that is a far cry from junk bonds.
For one thing, despite their recent ascent, the stocks in Montgomery's index of the 500 fastest-growing companies in the United States are selling at an average of 87 percent of their expected 1998 earnings growth rate. By contrast, those in the S.& P. 500 are at 190 percent of expected growth rates.
Moreover, "accelerated earnings growth and global wage deflation are going to continue to drive stock prices in the growth segments of the U.S. economy," Mr. Weisel said.
Indeed, the institutional investors who jammed the first floor of the Ritz-Carlton here seemed particularly enamored of companies that did away with wages altogether. For instance, Christos M. Cotsakos, chief executive of E-Trade, the Internet brokerage company, was the buzz of the conference after his presentation.
Mr. Cotsakos showcased the firm's advertising campaign, which lampoons investing stereotypes. In one ad, a spoof of the old E. F. Hutton commercials, two women are chatting in a restaurant. One leans over and asks, "So what does your broker say?" As the restaurant falls silent, her companion replies, "I don't use a broker." She uses E-Trade, which has 230,000 accounts and averages 17,000 transactions a day, of which, Montgomery analysts like to point out, "only 14 percent require human intervention." Only about 3 percent of the 60 million retail brokerage accounts in the United States are handled on line, making the field, in Montgomery's eyes, ripe for growth.
Another popular theme at the conference was the growth potential in the privatization of public institutions like schools and prisons. The Corrections Corporation of America, which contracts with governments to manage prisons, and the CBT Group, which develops interactive training software, both drew big crowds. (So did an analyst workshop on semiconductors entitled "Staying Alive." But attendance there may have been bolstered by a strobe-lit performance by Montgomery associates, who, in a takeoff on an Intel TV ad, wore white clean-room suits and danced to music from that disco classic, "Saturday Night Fever.")
"Almost 40 percent of the G.D.P. growth is tied to the infotechnology business," said John K. Skeen, Montgomery's senior managing director of research. "As a result of that, you have very serious investment opportunities."
Mr. Skeen described the mood of the conference as "ebullient" but not "giddy," as the Beverly Hills Predators' Balls of the 1980's were so often described.
"We might happen to have Willie Nelson or Dana Carvey, but there are no limos driving people to these events -- we take buses," he said, referring to the shuttles chartered for the purpose. "I seem to recall in Lalaland they were traveling in sleds with hot tubs in the back."
TO be sure, there was no slacking during the workday among the attendees, whose firms control over $5 trillion of equity investments, and the 235 presenters, whose market value comes to about $1.2 trillion.
"We get to talk to more investors here than in any other forum," said Thomas G. Stemberg, chief executive of Staples, the office-supply retailer, as he hurried from his presentation to the closed-to-the-media breakout sessions, where executives are grilled on all aspects of their business.
Breakfast started at 6:30 A.M. and was cleared promptly at 7:30. Attendees packed the high-technology TV room on the hotel's second floor, where in a feat of extreme multitasking they could watch four presentations simultaneously.
So why not let loose a little in the evenings?
"Is it too much?" asked Ron Jacks, a portfolio manager at Seneca Capital Management, sipping a Dixie beer last Tuesday evening. "If it is, it'll become evident -- five years later."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Greta and Tom Sherby watched Theresa Ogas's rope tricks as she entertained at the annual investment conference of Montgomery Securities in San Francisco. (Anne Dowie for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (75%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: SA BULL NV (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (75%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); WINE (73%); MEN (72%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (65%); ART COLLECTING (64%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



552 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: FUNDS WATCH;
How Less May Be More

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD

 BODY:
Lower costs for investors. Fewer fund groups. And more money invested. That's what today's fund group leaders envision for the mutual fund industry at the close of the century.
The findings were part of a large study conducted over the last two years by Marcia Selz, president and chief executive of Marketing Matrix, a research firm in Los Angeles that specializes in the financial services industry. Ms. Selz talked to 59 executives of fund groups about their industry. 
 The consensus was that fund costs would be much lower over all because of increased competition among fund groups. The executives expect lower annual expenses and smaller management fees, as well as fewer and lower initial sales charges, or front-end loads.
Investors may also help push down fees. "Educated, smarter investors make us watch our prices and fees," one fund leader told Ms. Selz.
A study released last week by Lipper Analytical Services in Summit, N.J., concluded that the fund industry did not now enjoy the economies of scale that would allow fund companies to lower fees charged to investors as assets grow. Nonetheless, "if competitive pressures continue as they have been, mutual fund leaders will find ways to develop economies of scale," Ms. Selz said.
Nearly all the respondents to her study said financial advisers would work on a fee basis by 2005, instead of a transaction basis, creating a more service-oriented business. Advisers will be rewarded for continuing money management performance, rather than for sales alone.
And while investors will allocate a bigger percentage of their investment assets to funds, the industry itself will experience consolidation, executives said. But they disagreed on how the consolidation would occur: Some said smaller companies would be swallowed by larger ones; others said the Internet would build the market for small groups by giving them direct access to investors, leaving the midsized fund families to consolidate into the larger groups.
 
A Scudder Index Fund
Is there no end? Investors' appetite for funds that track the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index seems insatiable, and more fund companies are chasing those dollars. The latest is Scudder, Stevens & Clark.
For its Scudder S.& P. 500 Index fund, the company is tapping the investment skills of Bankers Trust, which also runs a similar fund for Fidelity. But the Scudder fund is more expensive. Its expenses are capped at 0.4 percent until April 30, 1998. That is double the 0.2 percent of the Vanguard Index 500, and more than double the 0.19 percent of Fidelity's fund -- Spartan Market Index. The Scudder fund has a minimum initial investment of $2,500, compared with $3,000 for the Vanguard fund and $10,000 for the Fidelity fund.
 
New Baron Fund
 Baron Small Cap will invest mainly in small companies with market values up to $1 billion. Its manager, Cliff Greenberg, was formerly a manager with HPB Associates. Shares will be available at $10 each through Sept. 30.
 
New Managers
 Scott Satterwhite, former manager of Biltmore Special Values, has joined Artisan Partners as manager of Artisan Small Cap Value, a new fund available by subscription at $10 a share until tomorrow. The fund is scheduled to close to new investors when assets reach $400 million.
Alan Gilston, formerly a portfolio manager at Schroder Capital Management International, has joined Oppenheimer Funds as co-manager of Oppenheimer Discovery with the longtime manager, Jay Tracey.
 
On the Web
The Mutual Fund Channel, a new Internet service, will deliver personalized daily updates on fund performance to subscribers' computers. After telling the service how many shares they own, investors can receive price and value information on up to 20 of their funds. They can also get historical data, profiles, market analysis and news. Data are available on more than 5,800 funds. The performance and ranking data are from Lipper Analytical Services.
Free software to receive this information will be available to subscribers at the Mutual Fund Channel's site on the World Wide Web (www.mutualfundchannel.com) starting on Tuesday and through Back Web Technologies channels (www.backweb.com). System requirements include Microsoft Windows 95 or NT 4.0 and Netscape Navigator 2.0 or higher.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: FMR CORP (85%); LIPPER INC (69%); DEUTSCHE ASSET MANAGEMENT SCUDDER INVESTMENTS (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); INDEX FUNDS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



553 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2790 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Rubin's Long March to China

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin spent the last 10 days in Asia. In Hong Kong, he wrestled with the problems of Southeast Asia's currency crisis, first at meetings of the finance ministers of the world's leading industrial nations, and then at the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. Next he traveled to China's interior to assess its confusing, often contradictory brew of economic changes. David E. Sanger, formerly the Tokyo bureau chief of The Times and now Washington economic correspondent, joined the tour. Following is his day-by-day account:
 
Sept. 19: 'This Could Be a Circus'
When Hollywood makes the inevitable sequel to "Air Force One," maybe the producers should forget about the President. Instead, they can title it "Air Force 86971," for the tail number on the creaky, Eisenhower-era plane taking three of the most powerful policy setters in the global economy to meet their Asian counterparts: Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, his wise-cracking deputy Lawrence H. Summers and the Sphinx-like Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve. 
 O.K., a meeting of finance ministers may not sound like the makings of a box-office bonanza, but imagine the story line: The plane is not seized by a bunch of crazed nuclear terrorists, but instead by wild-eyed bond traders, aided by a cabal of currency traders who, to add a bit of verisimilitude, have just flattened the Malaysian economy.
They demand that Messrs. Rubin, Summers and Greenspan spill their plans for short-term interest rates and the direction of the dollar. As the midair standoff drags on, markets quiver from Bangkok to Berlin. A worldwide recession hangs in the balance.
Well, maybe not. Up here on the real Air Force 86971, everyone is complaining about the cheese on the nachos and the pitiful flying range of the plane, which must refuel three times between Washington and Hong Kong. But that allows time for Mr. Rubin to reflect on the fact that this is his first trip to the world's most populous country -- either in his old life, as an investment banker, or in the five years he has served President Clinton.
"When I was at Goldman," he says, referring to his 26 years at Goldman, Sachs & Company, "there weren't enough commercial transactions in China to even justify a trip. It was all Tokyo, and at the end a little Hong Kong." The world looks very different today. Japan can't seem to dig itself out of its hole. And the boom in Southeast Asia has hit a brick wall, with the currency crisis that started in Thailand spreading like jungle thatch.
So Mr. Rubin's tour is now an urgent repair mission. He wants to use the annual meeting of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund to make sure countries that are opening their financial markets don't backtrack. And in Beijing, he must pave the way for President Jiang Zemin's state visit to Washington next month, the first by a Chinese leader in a dozen years.
Mr. Rubin readily acknowledges that the Administration's interactions with China over the last five years are nothing to crow about. "We can properly be faulted," he says, "for vastly underinvesting in our relationships with Chinese officials up and down the line." It's no surprise, he adds, that "we keep having such a hard time understanding each other."
Such candor in an Administration that often seems to believe its own spin is the key to Mr. Rubin's remarkably good press. Having a few hundred million dollars in the bank gives him, as one Cabinet colleague noted recently, "the security to say exactly what he thinks." He also seems to speak a common language with Mr. Greenspan, who steers clear of reporters on the 20-hour trip as assiduously as Mr. Rubin seeks them out.
As the plane circles halfway around the world, Mr. Rubin huddles with his staff to discuss how to react if anti-Americanism flares in Hong Kong. The Prime Minister of Malaysia, Mahathir Mohamad, will be there, contending anew that American speculators victimized his country by borrowing his currency and using it to drive down his stock market.
Others don't see an American conspiracy in all this, but resent the fact that the United States, while not a major contributor to the $20 billion I.M.F. bailout of Thailand, nonetheless insisted that the Thais endure a strict, Mexico-style austerity plan.
The Japanese, some Treasury officials warn, may try to exploit those emotions to regain influence they have lost during their own recession and banking crisis.
This quiet tug-of-war is a constant subtext of relations in the Pacific -- and trade deficits, interest rates and direct investment are all weapons in the struggle.
"Hoo, boy," Mr. Rubin says. "This could be a circus."
 
Sept. 20: Jet Lag and a Jolt
It is 8 A.M. in Mr. Rubin's suite overlooking Victoria Harbor, and his prediction is coming true. "We've just had a dispute," Mr. Rubin declares as his jet-lagged aides stumble into a staff meeting.
The Japanese, technically the hosts of today's meeting of the Group of Seven finance ministers, are floating a proposal for a special fund to rescue Asian nations caught in the the cycle of currency devaluations and stock-market slides.
It is hardly an act of altruism: Japan's battered banks have lent tens of billions of dollars to build many of the projects throughout Asia that are now crashing.
Mr. Rubin wants to head off the idea fast. It could amount to an "Asia-for-Asians fund," he says, undercutting American interests. And it is far from clear that the Japanese would join Washington in insisting on the full disclosure of financial data before a country could tap the kitty.
But his biggest fear is that the mere existence of such a huge pool of money could create what bankers call a "moral hazard"; investors could sleep soundly, knowing that any Southeast Asian nation that threw economic discipline out the window would be bailed out.
"We need to find a way for investors to take a haircut when this kind of thing happens," said Mr. Rubin, who faced heavy criticism after the bailout of Mexico in 1995 also ended up bailing out the American banks and Mexican millionaires who financed the country's unwise decisions.
Late in the day, Prime Minister Mahathir steals all the headlines, in a fiery speech blaming the "great powers" for his country's crisis and suggesting that currency trading for anything other than facilitating deals between countries is "immoral."
Mr. Rubin gives a cool response, describing currency trading as "integral to a global and modern economy."
Quietly, his aides make a point of telling reporters that Malaysia's central bank was a huge speculator in the currency markets for years -- and seemed unconcerned about the morality of it all while it was winning.
 
Sept. 21: Sizing Up Capitalism
This is supposed to be Hong Kong's big coming-out party as a Chinese city, the first huge international gathering since the July 1 handover. And China's leaders are pouring in to survey their new pearl.
If during the summer there was speculation that Hong Kong would change China more than China would change Hong Kong, here is China's future: With 20,000 bankers in town, luxury hotels have ratcheted up their rates to more than $500 a night.
Across Victoria Harbor, in Manu Melwani's narrow Kowloon tailor shop, the phone rings. "O.K., O.K., O.K, I'll come to him," Mr. Melwani says, exasperation creeping into his voice.
It is Sunday morning, usually time here for a leisurely dim sum brunch, but Mr. Melwani is inundated with orders from customers who want their suits, in the finest British wools, before the end of the World Bank-I.M.F. meetings.
This banker, Mr. Melwani is told over the phone, is special. "This fellow -- Greenberg, Greentree, no here it is, Greenspan -- does he run a big bank?" he asks a customer. Well, not exactly. But he does set interest rates for the United States and, by extension, much of the world.
Mr. Melwani digests these facts for a moment, glances at his wall of fabrics, and concludes: "He'll probably want pinstripes."
 
Sept. 22: China's Economic Lurch
Mr. Rubin is still wrestling with Southeast Asia's problems, but over lunch with the American Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong he takes time out to get his mind around what is happening in the rest of China.
At the Party Congress earlier in the month, the Chinese formally embraced the economy's lurch to what the Chinese are now calling "diversified ownership." (They will not use the word "privatization" in regard to their huge, inefficient state-owned enterprises, and by midweek, Mr. Rubin has shifted his language as well.)
The problem, the executives tell Mr. Rubin, is that no one knows what "diversified ownership" means. Shareholders with real power? Continued government control?
"You have to wonder who is going to be buying all these companies," said Jeffrey S. Muir, director of external affairs in Hong Kong for Seagram Asia Pacific, part of the Canadian beverage and entertainment giant. And if the process is too quick, others warn Mr. Rubin, a result could be huge layoffs and instability in a country where 100 million unemployed and underemployed people already wander the countryside.
There is the usual round of complaints about doing business in the Middle Kingdom -- from corruption to the slow payoff on investments -- and lots of discussion of the precarious condition of China's banking system, which loaned billions to the near-bankrupt state-run industries.
But the Southeast Asian crisis, one banker tells Mr. Rubin, "may turn out to be a blessing for China: they can see what happens when you leave all this unattended."
 
Sept. 23: The Free-Market Waltz
Mr. Rubin wants the reporters traveling with him to understand that he has just won a great diplomatic victory, even if the evidence is scarce. A meeting with Southeast Asia's finance ministers that Treasury officials feared could turn into a debacle -- "let Larry do the food tasting," Mr. Rubin joked -- actually turned out well.
"They all said the same thing," Mr. Rubin declares. "In their view, they have to stay on the path to market liberalization." The ministers agreed to hold a meeting somewhere in Asia, with participants yet to be named, to talk about what to do next. The subtext: America is back in the middle of the game; the steam is out of the Japanese bailout plan.
The session is a reminder that Mr. Rubin and his staff spend an enormous amount of time talking to other finance ministers and central bankers -- most of whom, these days, share a relatively common world view. With some exceptions -- usually to protect their own territory -- they lean toward open markets, competition and deregulation. It is the politicians they work for, and the industrialists who finance elections, who resist market openings. But by and large, such characters are not here.
"Our finance minister can say anything he wants in a closed meeting," noted one Thai official, whose Government was teetering all week. "But what can he say when he gets home?"
In short, finance ministers describe the world of currencies and fiscal policies the way they would like to see it -- and then pray that the markets win out over political opposition. That is true even for Anwar Ibrahim, the Finance Minister of Malaysia and Mr. Mahathir's presumed successor. Meeting with Mr. Rubin, he is backpedaling fast, offering assurances that his country -- whose currency hit a 26-year-low after Mr. Mahathir's Saturday speech -- is not about to ban currency trading.
Mr. Rubin tried to be sympathetic; after all, he has been trotted out more than once to clean up messes after President Clinton's ill-considered comments on currencies.
"I told him," he said later, "that the situation is not completely unfamiliar to me."
 
Sept. 24: Touring the Heartland
Like most visitors to Xi'an, Mr. Rubin tours China's most astounding archeological treasure: the army of thousands of life-size figures that protect the graves of the Chinese emperors.
But he traveled to Xi'an for reasons that have little to do with tourism. The ancient capital is on the edge of central China, not the go-go coast. Xi'an is more staid than Shanghai or Guangzhou, but it's learning.
Cars choke the downtown as Mr. Rubin's motorcade wends past ramshackle markets and loose chickens on the way to the jewelry factory of the Xi'an Diamond Company. The business is one of six experimental companies in the city that are all but completely private, with most employees holding shares that trade on the Shanghai market and enjoying salaries that have vastly improved their living standards.
No sooner is Mr. Rubin in the door than the investment banker in him bursts out.
The chairman, Xu Zonglin, a 41-year-old entrepreneur, boasts that the company had a 60 percent profit margin last year. "Is there an independent accounting firm that checks your books?" Mr. Rubin asks, pressing for more details until it is clear that Mr. Xu's definition of "independent" and Mr. Rubin's are a bit different. Told that the company sells to Italy and buys equipment in the United States, Mr. Rubin asks detailed questions about currency convertibility.
Soon Mr. Xu and Mr. Rubin zip across town to a huge construction site, where the jewelry mogul is building a new factory, one of China's largest jewelry trading exchanges and dormitories.
"How long did it take to get the city's approval for this huge project?" Mr. Rubin asks. "One month," Mr. Xu responds. Among the Americans, eyebrows shoot up.
Lei Bao Yin, the local Communist Party chief, describes all he did to help Mr. Xu move quickly through the bureaucracy."We have noticed some corruption," he says, "but now the Communist Party realizes that anti-corruption is vital to the existence of the Party."
 
Sept. 25: Skepticism in Beijing
In 1989, during the Tiananmen Square protests, People's University in Beijing was a hotbed of anti-Government activity. But today, the students are questioning not the legitimacy of their Government, but the global push -- led by the United States -- to open China's markets.
After listening to a speech by Mr. Rubin, the students -- presumably selected by the university -- ask what he would do about shrinking the state-owned enterprises, and he responds by talking about the need for "a basic safety net," and a program to figure out how workers can "relocate themselves in the economy."
"We have the same problems," Mr. Rubin notes. "But it is the wrong answer to resist change, because you will simply stagnate."
The students are intrigued, but not convinced. "My professor told me that in Mexico there was a lot of suffering a few years ago," says Ye Bihua, a 20-year-old economics major, sounding a lot like critics of the Mexican bailout in the United States. "And I'm afraid that if we let foreign banks come to China too soon, it will cause even more troubles, like Mexico had."
Mr. Rubin ends the day by meeting Zhu Rongji, China's recently-elevated economic czar, in the Great Hall of the People. Gently, he raises the subject of a big pending order for Boeing jets. Mr. Zhu laughs and tells him that he was a lot more diplomatic than Jacques Chirac, the French President, who arrived here recently insisting that China buy 100 Airbus jets.
So what about those Boeings? Mr. Rubin prodded. Mr. Zhu would only hint that another diplomatically convenient order was on the way.
 
Sept. 26: A Jovial President
The big day: Mr. Rubin's limousine zips through the gates of the guarded compound where emperors once frolicked, where Mao Zedong ordered the construction of the giant state factories -- and where Jiang Zemin is now trying to turn an economy around.
Mr. Jiang is waiting for Mr. Rubin in the doorway of the Yingtai, the ornate, 300-year-old guest house where foreign dignitaries are received. "The Treasury Department is always the most important in any country," Mr. Jiang says jovially. "Meeting a Treasury Secretary makes you think you will become rich."
What struck American participants in the meeting was that Mr. Jiang was so casual, even telling self-deprecating jokes about how history may judge his move to freer markets. He spoke about bringing in newer, younger leaders who understood global markets. But he also made it clear that China would move on its own schedule.
"He was often quite philosophical," Mr. Rubin said later, "and he clearly had a plan."
And then the Treasury Secretary's motorcade slipped out of the compound, across Tiananmen Square, where crowds watched the sunset lowering of the Chinese flag, and Mr. Rubin began the long trip back to the Washington fray.

GRAPHIC: Photos: SEPT. 25, BEIJING Like the Great Wall, the issues facing Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin on his 10-day trip seemingly went on forever. (Mark Leong/Matrix for The New York Times)(pg. 1); SEPT. 21, HONG KONG There is much to discuss on Day 2 of the I.M.F.-World Bank meeting. Treasury Secretary Rubin, seated right, holds a late-night post-mortem with his deputy, Lawrence H. Summers, left, and other aides. (Robert Grossman for The New York Times); SEPT. 24, XI'AN Above, Mr. Rubin signs a dollar bill, matching his printed signature. At right, he visits the Xi'an Diamond Company's new factory and accepts a terra cotta soldier as a gift. (David E. Sanger/The New York Times); SEPT. 25-26, BEIJING After a speech at the People's University, the Treasury Secretary, above, hears from students who question the global push to open China's markets. (Associated Press); At left, he tours Tiananmen Square. (Agence France-Presse); Below, Chinese President Jiang Zemin, left, meets Mr. Rubin as the vice chairwoman of the Federal Reserve, Alice Rivlin, looks on. (Reuters)(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); ASIA (95%); HONG KONG (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); TOKYO, JAPAN (72%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (95%); ASIA (95%); HONG KONG (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); TOKYO, JAPAN (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available PUBLIC FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); AIR FORCES (88%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); BOND MARKETS (64%); BONDS (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); TERRORISM (50%); 

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (76%); BILL CLINTON (56%); ALAN GREENSPAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



554 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 162 words

HEADLINE: Food for the Hungry

 BODY:

To the Editor:
"Cutting Waste Can Be a Waste" (Week in Review, Sept. 21) focused on a handful of critics who believe that recovering excess food is a waste of time because it doesn't pay off economically. But that food adds up to 96 billion pounds a year -- nearly a third of the United States food supply. 
I agree that food waste is a sign of our prosperity and agricultural abundance. But amid all this plenty, nearly 12 million Americans may face food insecurity this year.
Food recovery is a highly organized effort to rescue mass quantities of excess, edible food throughout the commercial food chain. There is no large "bureaucracy." This movement is driven by private businesses, charities and citizens, with the encouragement of Government. A strong Federal safety net must always be our first line of defense, but public programs should never be an excuse for private apathy.
 
DAN GLICKMAN
Secretary of Agriculture
Washington, Sept. 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: FOOD FOR THE HUNGRY (84%); FOOD FOR THE HUNGRY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD FOR THE HUNGRY (84%); FOOD FOR THE HUNGRY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); FOOD SECURITY (88%); FOOD CHARITIES (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



555 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: The Nation.;
Hawaii Bucks the Trend on Welfare Reform

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

 BODY:
AS stricter welfare rules sweep across the country, one state after another is celebrating its shrinking rolls. In Wyoming, the number of welfare recipients has declined 68 percent from four years ago. In Oregon, 48 percent. In New York, 12 percent.
Then there's Hawaii. 
 The state is the only one in the nation to record a steady annual increase in the number of welfare recipients since 1993, Federal officials say. When Hawaiians describe the 36 percent change in their welfare population, they're talking increase, not decrease.
"Everyone's asking, 'What's happening in Hawaii?' " said Dennis Arakaki, a Hawaii state legislator who fielded the awkward question over and over again at a recent meeting of state officials from all over the country. "I say, 'Gee, I wish we had better things to report.' Unfortunately, we don't have better things to report."
No one knows exactly why Hawaii has emerged as the exception to the national rule. (Alaska's rolls, which have gone up and down during the same period, are about 5 percent higher than they were four years ago). But the situation seems to stem from a complicated mix of the state's economic struggles and its reluctance to push people off welfare, two factors that also run counter to national trends.
And while welfare experts remain divided about which factor has contributed most to Hawaii's surging caseload, they agree that finding the answer is critical.
Are Hawaiian officials and liberals right to blame the state's sagging economy, warning that other states will suffer similarly if their economies sour?
Or are conservatives right to wag their fingers at the state's politicians for refusing to adopt tough measures that have made it harder for poor people in other states to get welfare and keep it?
"A lot of people from other states are saying, 'We need to know why this is happening so we can avoid it here,' " said Jack Tweedie, who tracks welfare reform for the National Conference of State Legislatures.
Some experts argue that states should worry more about placing people in jobs and less about simply reducing caseloads, which may or may not mean that welfare recipients are actually finding work. The mere thought of rising caseloads gives fiscally-minded politicians the shivers. Under the new welfare law, states receive a fixed amount of Federal money based on previous spending, regardless of how many welfare recipients they serve.
So while states with shrinking welfare rolls now enjoy multimillion-dollar surpluses, Hawaii found itself with slightly less money this year to spend on more people. The state legislature came up with $6 million to fill the gap. "Without that, we would really be hurting," said Kristine Foster, a welfare program administrator at Hawaii's Department of Human Services.
But Ms. Foster defends her state's decision to leave the welcome mat out for Hawaii's needy. In the face of an economic downturn, she says, the traditional, liberal concept of government support for the poor is an ideal worth clinging to.
"People say we're too generous, we're too nice," Ms. Foster said. "But a lot of people here feel that welfare reform is very punitive. We did not want to mirror that.
"We're trying to make people self-sufficient, but we're not interested in driving people to destitution," said Ms. Foster, who says she has no interest in pushing people off the rolls without some assurance that they have found work.
 
They Give at the Office
Ms. Foster blames the rise in welfare recipients -- which surged from 54,511 to 73,893 between 1993 and 1997 -- on the tourism slump that began in the 1990's and left the state's economy sputtering while much of the nation moved from recession to resurgence. About 6 percent of Hawaii's households receive welfare, slightly above the national average.
But she also acknowledges that Hawaii's liberal eligibility rules played a role. While other states force applicants to search for work before handing them a check, Hawaii still gives out benefits on the first day an eligible applicant walks into the welfare office.
The state has also encouraged welfare recipients to stay on the rolls even after they find low-paying jobs, offering them reduced benefits to supplement their low salaries.
Last December, Hawaii switched course, introducing a tougher policy that slashed benefits by 20 percent to those welfare recipients who fail to find jobs within two months.
 
Velvet Glove
Ms. Foster said the stricter rules and an improving economy persuaded an additional 1,100 people to find work and helped slow the rise in the caseload. This year, she expects the number of people on public assistance to increase by only 1 percent.
Conservatives say that proves their point: that tough action, instead of letting families languish in government-sponsored dependency, reduces welfare rolls. "When you don't get tough, people stay on welfare," said Douglas J. Besharov, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative research organization in Washington. "The velvet glove just doesn't hack it."
But Hawaiian officials, who have historically held liberal views on social policy, say they're not ashamed of their more traditional approach. Their goal, they say, is not to simply push people off the rolls. Their goal is to push people into jobs. And on that count, they seem to be succeeding.
Under the new Federal welfare law, states must have 25 percent of their welfare recipients working this year. Despite the rise in caseload, Hawaii will meet the new Federal work participation rates. Twenty-seven percent of the state's welfare recipients are already working, Ms. Foster said, compared to 10 percent in 1995.
And this, some liberals say, should be the true measure of welfare reform: the number of people moving from welfare into work, not the number of people who have simply vanished from the rolls.
"The real problem is that everyone's competing to be the state with the biggest caseload decline," said Jodie Levin-Epstein, senior policy analyst at the Center for Law and Social Policy, a liberal research organization in Washington.
"Caseload decline can mean good things if it means that people are getting into jobs," she said. "But that's not necessarily the case."

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the capitol in Honolulu, a woman with her grandson protest proposed welfare cuts. (David Scull)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); HAWAII, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); TRENDS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); CONSERVATISM (69%); LIBERALISM (69%); NEWS BRIEFS (67%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



556 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 4; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
Struggling to Scare A Contented World

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
PRESIDENT CLINTON has long been seen as an instinctive politician, one with a talent for sensing a public yearning and turning it to political advantage. So why, when Americans are blithely pumping record amounts of gasoline into their Blazers, Jeeps, and not-so-mini-vans, is he preparing to campaign to cut the nation's use of fuel?
Mr. Clinton says his goal is to reduce the threat in coming decades of droughts, coastal floods, and famine from global warming -- a warming of the atmosphere caused by rising concentrations of gases, especially carbon dioxide, released when fuels and forests are burned. He plans to play host at a climate conference at Georgetown University next week to publicize the issue, and he invited dozens of television weather forecasters to meet with him and Vice President Al Gore at the White House Wednesday, also to discuss global warming.
Around Washington, where hot, sticky summers are commonplace, those seeking a political explanation for everything say that global warming simply is a safe haven for a second-term President who is eager to divert attention from more uncomfortable subjects, like campaign financing or his personal life. 
 But scientists and officials involved in the intensifying international debate on how to deal with global warming say it has taken the United States far too long to put the issue front and center, particularly because this country is the biggest source of heat-trapping gases, and because the spread of American-style consumerism to developing nations is likely to create the biggest source of the gases in the next century.
A strong consensus has built among scientists that global warming, although not a certainty, is a sufficiently serious threat to justify taking some action. Without concrete action by the United States, climate policy experts say, the rest of the world -- which is eager to replicate America's high-revving, energy-hungry economy -- will be unlikely to conserve coal or oil for the sake of the shared atmosphere.
President Clinton's decision to tackle the issue now, some of these experts say, was largely prompted by the need to build public support before he fulfills a pledge to commit the United States to firm limits on future greenhouse emissions. Specifics are expected to be announced by the White House next month and made final at an international climate meeting in Kyoto, Japan, in December.
That pledge came after Mr. Clinton became the focus of increasingly harsh criticism from countries like Britain and Germany, which have pushed ahead with environmental programs to cut their output of carbon dioxide.
But finding ways to convince the American public of the seriousness of the climate threat will be no mean feat. This is particularly true with the nation feeling flush, with gasoline and oil relatively cheap, and with most of the more obvious environmental problems either solved or being attacked.
Mr. Clinton had a much easier sell in his last big environmental policy move -- toughening standards for two familiar pollutants, soot and smog. Soot and smog are a visible blight that kills old people and asthmatic children.
 
Bubbles in Beer
But carbon dioxide is far harder to paint as a villain. It is, after all, the same invisible stuff that makes the bubbles in beer. And, unlike smog or water pollution -- where solid evidence has been plain for all to see -- global warming is a looming, complicated problem that never quite seems to arrive. In other words, a nightmare for a politician.
There will never be a day when newspaper headlines proclaim "Earth Warms -- Floods, Famine Erupt," climate experts say. Even the particularly nasty storms, floods, and droughts of recent years, although consistent with the theory, can never be directly ascribed to human meddling with the atmosphere. Indeed, some recent work suggests that variations in the sun's brightness could account for some warming.
Mr. Clinton will have to overcome inertia that is being fed by industry. Despite a few recent converts, like British Petroleum, most industries that either produce fossil fuels or rely on them still contend that the science is uncertain and are lobbying for more research before action is taken to cut greenhouse pollution.
Seth Dunn, a climate and energy analyst at the Worldwatch Institute, a private environmental group, said that a key to any initiative this fall will be to show the economic sense of using fuels sparingly and developing new sources of energy that do not add to the atmosphere's greenhouse burden. An enormous market for such technologies is already building overseas, and could easily spread here as well, he said.
One of Mr. Clinton's soldiers in his environmental campaign is Mr. Gore; the prospect of a hothouse planet was a central theme of his best-selling book, "Earth in the Balance" (Houghton Mifflin, 1992). Another is Timothy E. Wirth, Undersecretary of State for Global Affairs. Mr. Wirth is a veteran of the communications wars over global warming. As a Senator, he staged one of the first Congressional hearings on the subject during the scorching summer of 1988.
To get the point across at the time, staffers called the National Weather Service to be sure the hearing date would be a hot one. "We had it on that day, and opened all the windows," Mr. Wirth recalled. The greenhouse effect became big news. This time, he said, sweaty hearings won't be enough. He said the Clinton Administration is planning to invoke the fate of future generations, just as he did to spur proposed solutions to the budget deficit.
To prepare for his improbable climate campaign, Mr. Clinton has been boning up both on the science, and on ways to explain it.
 
Quivering Canaries
When some of the country's leading climate specialists gathered at the White House in July for a meeting with Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore, they provided a host of simple ways to illustrate the problem.
Dr. Stephen H. Schneider, a Stanford University biology professor, invoked the image of canaries carried into coal mines to warn of noxious gas. "The canary in the cage is starting to quiver," Dr. Schneider said.
Mr. Clinton slowly repeated the phrase, as if testing it for future use.

GRAPHIC: Photos: 1910 -- The Grinnell Glacier in Glacier National Park, where Al Gore recently discussed global warming, before the melting. (Elrod/Glacier National Park Archive); 1931 -- Photographed from the same vantage point 21 years later, a clearly smaller glacier. (Hileman/Glacier National Park Archive); 1997 -- The glacier this year; having receded 3,100 feet in a century, it is expected to disappear within 30 years. (Fagre/Glacier National Park Archive)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: KINKI, JAPAN (51%); 

COMPANY: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); KINKI, JAPAN (51%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available GLOBAL WARMING (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TRENDS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DROUGHT (77%); EMISSIONS (77%); FAMINE (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); GREENHOUSE GASES (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); WEATHER (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (57%); COASTAL AREAS (56%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



557 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: DIARY

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN

 BODY:

WALL STREET
Travelers to Buy Salomon In $9 Billion Stock Deal
Travelers Group, a sprawling ensemble of financial services companies, agreed to acquire Salomon Inc., the Wall Street powerhouse that owns Salomon Brothers, for more than $9 billion in stock. The deal was a crowning achievement for Sanford I. Weill, Travelers' chairman. By combining Salomon, which is strong in bonds, with its Smith Barney brokerage, Travelers will rival Wall Street leaders like Merrill Lynch, American Express and Citicorp, as well as the biggest financial firms in Europe and Japan. Warren E. Buffett, who controls almost 20 percent of Salomon, will exchange his holding for a 3 percent stake in Travelers -- still significant for so large a company. The deal is likely to touch off another round of mergers among insurance concerns, brokerage firms and commercial banks.
 
THE ECONOMY
First Fear, Then Hope
Durable goods orders rose 2.7 percent last month, well above analysts' expectations, to a record of nearly $186.6 billion, the Commerce Department said. The increase, the third consecutive monthly advance, reflected booming demand for electronic products. That report, combined with a report from the Labor Department that jobless claims fell unexpectedly by 2,000 the previous week, to a seasonally adjusted 306,000, renewed fears that the Federal Reserve might push up interest rates to ward off inflation. But on Friday the Commerce Department reported that the economy grew a bit more slowly in the second quarter than previously estimated. Gross domestic product, the broadest measure of national economic activity, grew at a 3.3 percent annual rate in the quarter, down from the 3.6 percent rate reported a month ago. The new figure eased the fears of a rate increase.
 
MARKETS
Recovering From a Slide
The slower economic growth, in turn, reinvigorated financial markets. Bond prices were up, sending their yields lower. The 30-year Treasury bond ended the week at 100 5/32, to yield 6.36 percent, down 1 basis point. That helped stocks recover on Friday from a three-day slide. The Nasdaq index hit a record high of 1,689.18, before ending the week at 1,682.24, up 1.87 points. Propelled by a surge of 74.17 on Friday, the Dow Jones industrial average closed at 7,922.18, up 4.91 points for the week.
 
COMPUTING
I.B.M. Holds the Chips
I.B.M. plans to make chips early next year that are 40 percent more powerful than the most advanced chips now made commercially. The computer maker said it had solved a fundamental problem, enabling it to use microscopic copper wiring on silicon chips, instead of the aluminum now used. The new process will also cut chip-making costs by 20 to 30 percent. Separately, Intel, which supplies the chips that are the brains of 80 percent of the world's personal computers, said the F.T.C. was investigating whether it engaged in any practices that would deter computer makers from using competitors' chips. Intel is cooperating. But no matter who makes the chips, employers want to be sure they are used for their benefit. Many are cracking down on employees who use office PC's to play games or send personal E-mail.
 
PEOPLE
Family Values Win
Brenda Barnes resigned as president and chief executive of Pepsi-Cola North America, citing family reasons. "Every time you would miss a child's birthday, or a school concert or a parent-teacher discussion, you'd feel the tug," said Ms. Barnes, who has three children, aged 10, 8 and 7. Pepsico, the parent company, named Philip A. Marineau, the former Quaker Oats executive who was praised for the success of Gatorade but held responsible for the decline of Snapple, to replace her. He is quitting as president of Dean Foods. . . . William H. Joyce, chief executive of Union Carbide, made a seemingly heroic gesture: If the company fails to earn $4 a share in 2000, he will return his base salary. But some compensation experts were not impressed. He'll be paid the salary, which amounts to only 20 percent of total compensation, and if the earnings fall short of the target, an amount equal to the salary will be deducted from other compensation . . . Ron Carey, the teamsters president, asserted that he was a victim, not a participant, in improper fund-raising. Three top aides have pleaded guilty; he accused them of betrayal.
 
CABLE TV
The Rates Keep Climbing
Cable television rates are spiraling upward, and two consumer groups, the Consumer Federation of America and Consumers Union, blamed the F.C.C., saying that it failed to keep a rein on an aggressive industry. Cable rates have risen at three times the inflation rate since the telecommunications law was passed in early 1996, the groups said. They asked the commission to freeze rates and to overhaul its formula for determining reasonable rates.
 
TOBACCO
Business Better Than Usual
Tobacco industry profits could soar under terms of a legal settlement proposed in June by 40 state attorneys general and cigarette makers, according to a new analysis by the F.T.C. It said the tobacco companies could reap as much as $123 billion in additional profits in the next 25 years if the settlement plan were adopted as drafted. It found that the real cost to industry would be about $207 billion, not the stated $368.5 billion value of the settlement. On the other hand, a Stanford University economist, Jeremy I. Bulow, calculated that the industry could easily live -- and conceivably thrive -- with President Clinton's alternative plan, which calls for raising cigarette prices as much as $1.50 a pack to discourage teen-age smoking.
 
HEALTH CARE
3 H.M.O.'s Back Regulation
Three big health maintenance organizations joined two consumer groups in calling for more regulation of managed health care, saying that all health plans should be subject to "legally enforceable national standards." Until now, H.M.O.'s had generally sought voluntary, not governmental, standards. But three nonprofit H.M.O.'s with a total of more than 10 million members -- Kaiser Permanente, based in California; HIP Health Insurance Plans, based in New York, and the Group Health Cooperative of Puget Sound, based in Seattle -- said regulation was needed to restore the confidence of many patients.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Brenda Barnes; Sanford Weill (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)
 
Graphs show annual rate of change in the value of the gross domestic product, 1995-97; Price increase of cable service, since 1992.
 
Drawing by Tom Bloom

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); AXP (NYSE) (57%); INTC (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (93%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS HOLDINGS INC (93%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (57%); INTEL CORP (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ACQUISITIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); COMPUTER CHIPS (84%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); MERGERS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); DURABLE GOODS (75%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (74%); FACTORY ORDERS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (67%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); INTEREST RATES (65%); COMPUTER MAKERS (62%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); 

PERSON: SANDY WEILL (73%); WARREN BUFFETT (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



558 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: Punitive Damages;
Crime Keeps On Falling, but Prisons Keep On Filling

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD

 BODY:
IT has become a comforting story: for five straight years, crime has been falling, led by a drop in murder.
So why is the number of inmates in prisons and jails around the nation still going up? Last year, it reached almost 1.7 million, up about seven percent a year since 1990. 
 The question is not merely a trick quiz, because the costs of running America's constantly expanding prison system -- now more than $30 billion a year -- have begun to impose an enormous burden on state governments.
Already, California and Florida spend more to incarcerate people than to educate their college-age populations. In California, where the number of prisoners has grown from 19,000 two decades ago to 150,000 today, the state now faces a crisis because it is caught between voters' refusal to approve more money for prison construction and an expected huge influx of inmates over the next few years as more and more tough sentencing laws take effect. The California Department of Corrections has projected that it will run out of space in barely more than two years. The North Carolina legislature recently adopted sentencing guidelines for judges based on a computer model showing how much bed space is available in the state's prisons, much like a hotel reservation system.
 
Growth Industry
Some poor towns, from Tupper Lake, N.Y., in the Adirondacks to Edgefield, S.C., are cashing in on the prison boom, having successfully competed to be the sites of new prisons, with all the jobs they bring, just as states have dueled with each other for new German or Japanese automobile factories. Since 1990 alone, the number of prison and jail guards nationwide has increased by about 30 percent, to more than 600,000.
Of course, the huge increase in the number of inmates has helped lower the crime rate by incapacitating more criminals behind bars, though there is no generally accepted way to measure the impact; crime rose sharply in the mid- and late 1980's, for example, even as the rate of imprisonment rose much faster.
But a growing number of criminologists say they are troubled by evidence that the spiraling growth of prisons is also causing unintended consequences that may actually contribute to increased crime as well as undermine families and inner-city neighborhoods.
 
Home and Back
Foremost among these developments, the experts say, is that the prison boom has created its own growth dynamic. The larger the number of prisoners, the bigger the number of people who will someday be released, and then, either because of their own criminal propensities or their experience behind bars, will be likely to commit new crimes and to be rearrested. A growing number of these former inmates are being reincarcerated for parole or probation violations, often a result of failing a urine test for drugs.
The number of criminals being sent to prison for the second or more time has increased steadily, rising to 35 percent of the total number of admissions in 1995 from 18 percent in 1980, said Allen J. Beck, chief of corrections statistics at the Bureau of Justice Statistics, the statistical branch of the Justice Department.
As the number of prisoners continues to grow, some neighborhoods and cities feel dramatic effects. A study of Washington, D.C., issued last month found that half of black men there between the ages of 18 and 35 are under the control of the criminal justice system on any given day, either in prison or jail, or on probation.
 
Vanishing Stigma
"This suggests to me that we are weakening the role of the criminal justice system," said Alfred Blumstein, a criminologist at Carnegie Mellon University, because it was meant to deter crime by stigmatizing people with the threat of imprisonment. "But we have now locked up so many people that we have lost the stigmatizing effect."
At the same time, Mr. Blumstein said, by imprisoning such a large number of people, especially young black males, "we have disrupted families and built up strong connections between criminal groups in prison and on the street."
"All this contributes to high rates of crime in inner-city communities," Mr. Blumstein said.
There are several reasons why the prison population is continuing to surge even as crime rates around the nation have fallen, but at their heart is an often misunderstood truth, said Franklin Zimring, director of the Earl Warren Legal Institute at the University of California at Berkeley. "The change in the number of inmates tells us more about our feelings about crime and criminals" and about changes in sentencing laws than it does about crime rates.
Sometimes the disparities in rates of imprisonment have no more apparent explanation. North Dakota and South Dakota, for instance, are similar in their social, economic and racial makeup and have similar crime rates. But while North Dakota has a prison incarceration rate of only 90 per 100,000 people, South Dakota imprisons 279 per 100,000.
 
Parole? No.
The prison population also continues to grow because sentences have increased for many crimes and parole boards have also become much more sensitive to the public's demand for harsher treatment of criminals. As a result, release rates of those prisoners eligible for parole have declined to 31.2 percent in 1995 from 37 percent in 1990, and inmates therefore are spending more of their sentences behind bars, Mr. Beck said.
Another key factor is that drug arrests are not counted in the Federal Bureau of Investigation's annual crime report. It includes crimes from murder to burglary, but not drug offenses, because they are not considered to have victims or likely to be reported to the police.
While other crimes have been declining, Mr. Beck said, the number of those arrested for drug offenses jumped 27 percent between 1990 and 1995. In fact, Mr. Blumstein said, criminals sentenced for drug offenses account for about half the growth in the prison population over the last 15 years.
John DiIulio Jr., a professor of politics and public affairs at Princeton University, said that in the past he believed most of those sentenced for drug offenses had also committed other crimes, often violent crimes, but new research he has conducted in New York State suggests that at least 25 percent of new inmates now are "drug-only offenders," people who have never been charged with any other type of crime.
"I think what we are seeing is an increase in drug-only offenders, and this is unfortunate," Mr. DiIulio said.
 
Paying the Bills
California, with the largest number of prisoners, is facing the biggest challenge. In the last 20 years, California has built 21 new prisons but added only one university to what was once hailed as the world's best public university system. And while the share of the state budget going to the university system has fallen to 8 percent from 12.5 percent in 1990, the proportion for corrections has risen to 9.4 percent, up 4.5 percent, an amount that educators point out is identical to the loss in their funds. In the meantime, California's universities have had to lay off 10,000 employees, many of them professors, while in the same period the number of state prison guards has increased by 10,000.
"This is a crisis," said Barry Munitz, the chancellor of the California State University system. "And the reason it is a crisis is that in California we capped government revenue with Prop 13, so every decision about spending is a tradeoff."
"To me, you pay now for college, or you pay dramatically more later for prisons," for people who don't get an education and wind up committing crimes, said Mr. Munitz. "The state sends us $6,000 per student," he pointed out, "but it pays $34,000 a year for a prison inmate."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Life behind bars, for more and more men, has become a way of life. Shower rooms at the Rikers Island jail in New York. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. 1); In Beeville, Tex., a former naval station is now prison space. (Greg Smith/Saba)(pg. 4)
 
Chart: "The Inmate, Population Grows, as Crime Recedes"
Serious crime is down, but the number of prison inmates is growing. Some reasons are longer sentences, a decrease in release rates and an increase in reincarcerations. Graphs track serious crime cases, Federal and State prison inmates, jail inmates awaiting trial or sentenced to one year or less, amount of time served, release rates, and rearrests, from 1990 through 1996. (Sources: Federal Bureau of Investigation; Bureau of Justice Statistics)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (70%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS & REHABILITATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS & REHABILITATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (70%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available PRISONS (92%); SENTENCING (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (78%); PROBATION (78%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); PAROLE (78%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); DAMAGES (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (72%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); APPROVALS (68%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (66%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



559 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Slowly, U.S. Is Returning Some Envoys To the Sudan

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 26

 BODY:
Revising its strategy of treating the Sudan as a complete pariah state, the Clinton Administration decided this week to put a handful of diplomats back in Khartoum to press the North African nation to stop harboring Palestinian, Lebanese, Egyptian and Algerian terrorists.
The Sudan's Islamic Government welcomed the announcement as a victory in its efforts to soften the American diplomatic line against it. But Administration officials said that sending diplomats back to the Sudan would allow the United States to increase pressure on Khartoum. 
 The United States says the Sudan is guilty of promoting slavery, torturing Christians, conspiring to plan the bombing of the United Nations headquarters and other New York City landmarks in 1993 and participating in an assassination attempt on President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt in 1995.
"With a permanent presence, we can nudge and push and argue," said Timothy M. Carney, the United States Ambassador to the Sudan, who was removed from Khartoum, the capital, in February 1996 with his staff of 24 diplomats and Marine Corps guards.
Up to eight American officials, though not Mr. Carney, will return to Khartoum over the next few months to investigate human rights abuses, monitor and encourage peace talks between the Government and a rebel army operating in the southern Sudan, and to push Khartoum to fulfill its recent public promises to oppose terrorism, State Department officials said.
Administration officials said the new embassy staff also would be able to gather intelligence on a number of terrorist groups they say are operating out of the Sudan, including the Lebanese Party of God, or Hezbollah; Hamas, and the Palestinian Islamic Jihad.
The question of whether it is better to isolate or to talk with hostile states like the Sudan, Iran, Libya or North Korea is as old as diplomacy itself. No easy answers have emerged.
In early 1996, John M. Deutch, who was then the Central Intelligence Agency's director, persuaded the Secretary of State, Warren Christopher, to remove American diplomats from Khartoum, citing rising security concerns. Over the last nine months, a consensus emerged within the State Department and the C.I.A. to reopen the diplomatic mission, Administration officials said, but two senior members of the National Security Council staff argued against reversing policy.
"The question was whether we would be giving the regime too much comfort," Mr. Carney, a consistent proponent of engagement with the Sudan, said in a telephone interview.
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright broke the deadlock this month, Administration officials said, after concluding that the Sudanese Government's more moderate public stance over the last year should be tested. But to make sure that Washington's intentions are not misunderstood, the Administration will increase levels of nonlethal military aid to Ethiopia and Eritrea, two countries fighting insurgencies supported by the Sudan, said a State Department official, who spoke on condition of anonymity.
The Administration is also considering new economic sanctions against Khartoum as well as renewed diplomatic efforts to persuade France and other European countries not to develop their economic relations with the Sudan.
Mr. Carney said he would not return to Khartoum, so the embassy will be staffed by lower-ranking diplomats. Instead, he will continue to shuttle between his home in Nairobi, Kenya, and Khartoum, as he has since he was withdrawn.
Mahdi Ibrahim Mohamed, the Sudan's Ambassador to Washington, said he viewed the Administration's willingness to put diplomats back in Khartoum as a major development toward improving relations. "This is a natural step in the direction of deepening the dialogue," he said.
Asked if his Government would now respond to American concerns about the Sudanese Government's alleged encouragement of terrorism, he said, "I don't want to be dragged into issues that only perpetuate hostilities between our two countries."
Mr. Mohamed's repeated pleas for warmer relations since his arrival in Washington in February 1996 have been part of a concerted effort by the Sudan to promote a more moderate image. Last year, the ruling National Islamic Front deported Osama bin Laden, a Saudi-born financier of extremist groups, and also turned the famed terrorist known as Carlos the Jackal over to France.
Mr. Carney noted that the Sudan had indicated that it was ready to sever its relations with other terrorists, but that its "efforts have been discreet and not insistent." With a permanent American diplomatic presence in the Sudan, he said, "We will press Khartoum to make good on its continual public statements that it opposes terrorism."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SUDAN (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EGYPT (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); LEBANON (93%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); ERITREA (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SUDAN (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EGYPT (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); LEBANON (93%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); ERITREA (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); KHARTOUM, SUDAN (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); TERRORISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); RELIGION (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); ASSASSINATION (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); HAMAS (77%); HEZBOLLAH (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); TORTURE (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); ARMIES (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); PEACE PROCESS (68%); ARMED FORCES (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); 

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



560 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World;
You're Not Bad, You're Sick. It's in the Book.

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:
EXPERTS warn that road rage is at epidemic levels on America's highways. In a recent study, the American Automobile Association found a 51 percent increase since 1990 in incidents of motorists behaving in an overtly hostile manner.
Crazy drivers, one might say. Precisely, says Dr. Arnold Nerenberg, a clinical psychologist in Whittier, Calif., who has a weekly radio program in which he discusses road rage as a certifiable mental illness. 
 With advocates like Dr. Nerenberg and help from state and Federal research grants intended to combat the increase in highway fatalities attributed to aggressive driving, road rage may be a disorder whose time has come. Dr. Nerenberg and other therapists firmly believe that road rage is on its way to certification as an official mental disorder in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders.
 
Hundreds of Disorders
The D.S.M, as insiders call it, is the 886-page clinical bible put out by the American Psychiatric Association and used by psychiatrists and other therapists to identify a set of behaviors as a mental illness. If road rage is ultimately included in the revisions of the D.S.M. that are now being reviewed, it will join more than 300 other disorders certified as mental diseases.
The D.S.M., currently in its fourth edition, classifies serious mental illnesses like psychoses and schizophrenia, but critics say it also medicalizes many behaviors once considered traceable to character flaws.
Many new disorders develop powerful lobbies in the therapeutic and political worlds, critics say, because of the D.S.M.'s far-reaching influence on health-care spending. "Inclusion in the D.S.M. is the key that opens the strongbox; you cannot bill for treatment without using it," said Dr. Thomas S. Szasz, a Syracuse psychiatrist and the author of "The Myth of Mental Illness," the landmark 1961 book that argued that psychiatry consistently expands its definition of mental illness to impose its authority over moral and cultural conflict.
Americans spend nearly $1 trillion annually on health care, and the mental health industry is lobbying the Federal and state governments to require health insurers and health maintenance organizations to cover treatment for mental disorders on a par with physical disease and injury. Critics maintain that the D.S.M. is a powerful marketing machine that slices off ever-greater chunks of money from overall health care spending.
"There is a clear motive for defining new mental disorders and marketing psychotropic medications for adults," said Herb Kutchins, a professor of social work at California State University in Sacramento and the co-author, with Stuart A. Kirk, of the forthcoming "Making Us Crazy: D.S.M. -- the Psychiatric Bible and the Creation of Mental Disorders," (Free Press). Mr. Kutchins noted that as recently as 18 years ago, the D.S.M. had only 106 mental disorders, while in the mid-19th century, before the D.S.M., the Federal Government recognized only one: idiocy/insanity. Now, he added, less money is available to treat those with serious, debilitating mental illnesses whose sufferers have little clout.
 
Legal Benefits
D.S.M. certification of a disorder can also have legal benefits. Recently, after a young woman in New Jersey was charged with suffocating her newborn baby in a bathroom while attending her senior prom, some therapists suggested that women charged with killing infants shortly after birth might be suffering from "brief psychotic disorder with postpartum onset," which the D.S.M. says is characterized by "emotional turmoil" following childbirth. (Postpartum syndrome has sometimes been invoked successfully as a legal defense.)
To argue its way into the D.S.M., an aspiring disorder needs voluminous field research indicating that it exists as a set of pathological symptoms by a significant number of people. An ardent lobby among therapists is essential, as is a campaign of publicity in the press.
Road rage disorder is the current favorite in the pack of hopefuls jockeying for position. "Road rage disorder has been put into play," said Dr. Nerenberg. As he defines it, road rage is "showing anger toward another driver" for something that driver did on the road, and is characterized by such reactions as rude gestures, hostile stares, shouting, horn-blowing and aggressive maneuvering. "If they do that two or more times a year, it is considered road rage -- a mental disorder," he said.
Dr. Nerenberg, who recently testified at Congressional hearings on highway safety, said his research showed that more than half of Americans suffer from road rage disorder at one time or another.
 
Emerging Candidates
Another candidate for certification as a mental illness is pre-menstrual dysphoric disorder, which afflicts some women as a severe form of pre-menstrual stress and "cripples them emotionally," according to a study published last week in the Journal of the American Medical Association. The study, which said sufferers can be significantly aided by taking an antidepressant, was financed by Pfizer Inc., which makes the antidepressant Zoloft.
Meanwhile, other therapists have recently made well-publicized claims that attention-deficit disorder, once primarily diagnosed in children, has begun showing up in large numbers of adult patients.
Some disorders lose political support and disappear as cultural forces clash with therapeutic claims; homosexuality, for example, was listed as a mental disorder until 1980. Another example is self-defeating personality disorder, which used to be most often diagnosed in women. Among its symptoms in the previous edition of the D.S.M.: choosing "people and situations that lead to disappointment." It was dropped when the latest D.S.M. appeared in 1994.
Still, new hopefuls surface regularly. Among them is jury-duty disorder, defined last year by the Bulletin of the Academy of Psychiatry and the Law as a psychiatric disease reported by people who have suffered sexual problems, heart palpitations, phobic reaction, depression and anorexia following stressful jury duty.
And foreign disorders may be coming our way, Mr. Kutchins suggests. Last year, for example, the British Medical Journal published a study detailing lottery stress disorder, characterized by a "delusional belief" that a ticket is a winner and a sharp "deflation of mood" when it isn't.
The National Institute of Mental Health estimates that one-third of Americans suffer from a clinical mental disorder in any given year and that more than half will have one during their lifetime. Defenders of current mental-health policy say accepting that removes the stigma from seeking treatment.
Mr. Kutchins, however, said the price was high. "If full parity comes about and only half of the people who would qualify for a D.S.M. disorder seek professional treatment," he said, "the tab has been estimated at about $75 billion a year."
Dr. Szasz says the D.S.M. has ingeniously made itself indispensable and probably indestructible. "The diagnosis in the D.S.M. is absolutely essential, because all mental health care and third-party insurance payment depends on what code you put down," he said. "It's completely impossible to get off this tiger."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In "Falling Down," Michael Douglas played a man unhinged by a traffic jam and beset by debilitating rage. (Arnold Kopelson/Warner Brothers)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (91%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (91%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (91%); SIC4729 ARRANGEMENT OF PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE ASSOCIATION (91%); AMERICAN PSYCHIATRIC ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN PSYCHIATRIC ASSOCIATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PSYCHIATRIC ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN PSYCHIATRIC ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available MENTAL ILLNESS (93%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (91%); PSYCHIATRY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (90%); ROAD RAGE (90%); LOBBYING (89%); MENTAL HEALTH (77%); PSYCHOLOGY (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); SCIENCE FUNDING (75%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (72%); NEWS BRIEFS (70%); WRITERS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (56%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



561 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1549 words

HEADLINE: Panama Leader Accused of Cronyism Over Appointees to Run the Canal

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: PANAMA

 BODY:
As a presidential candidate in 1994, Ernesto Perez Balladares was burdened by voters' misgivings about his party's unsavory ties to the deposed dictatorship of Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega. To allay those fears, he promised that, if elected, he would treat the Panama Canal not as the spoils of victory, but as the jewel of the national patrimony.
Now, having announced his choices for the board of directors that will run the vital waterway after the United States hands it over to Panama in 1999, Mr. Perez Balladares is being accused of breaking his word. Among his nominees to what will be an 11-member board are four members of his own or his wife's family, including a first cousin, a son-in-law and the spouses of two other cousins. 
 In addition, Mr. Perez Balladares has appointed one of the chief fund-raisers of his election campaign, a businessman famous for being embroiled in lawsuits. Other selections include two leading members of the Revolutionary Democratic Party who served General Noriega as his Foreign Minister and Interior Minister, and the son of Mr. Perez Balladares's own former Foreign Minister.
Reaction to the President's appointments among opposition groups, unions and the press has been caustic and angry. A cartoon published in the country's leading newspaper, La Prensa, early in September showed Mr. Perez Balladares greedily stuffing himself with pieces of a birthday cake labeled "Canal" as a voice calls out, "Darling, your relatives have arrived," while four other hands reach for portions.
In an editorial, the newspaper reproached Mr. Perez Balladares for violating "a tacit understanding among the leaders of all parties that the Canal is to be placed above and beyond the political fray" and "out of the reach of ignoble appetites." With the naming of the new board, the newspaper continued, "the Canal has been converted into a fount of juicy sinecures for the relatives and associates of the President."
As required by a pair of treaties signed 20 years ago, the waterway is currently managed by the Panama Canal Commission, an American Government agency whose board has five American and four Panamanian members. At noon on Dec. 31, 1999, that panel will give way to the Panama Canal Authority, to be directed by the all-Panamanian board appointed by the Government here.
Shipping companies and foreign governments have never questioned the ability of ordinary canal employees, whose professionalism and dedication to the waterway were demonstrated during the Noriega dictatorship. Already, more than 92 percent of the waterway's 9,800 workers, including more than two-thirds of the pilots who steer ships through the canal, are Panamanians.
Nor have the qualifications of the Panama Canal's administrator, Alberto Aleman Zubieta, been challenged. A Panamanian engineer educated in the United States, Mr. Aleman was appointed last year, and has been praised as a capable and impartial civil servant by shippers concerned about the canal's transition from American to Panamanian hands.
But shippers, diplomats, canal employees and their unions have not expressed the same confidence in Mr. Perez Balladares's decision to turn to relatives, friends and political associates to set canal policy.
"This sends the wrong signal to everyone who uses the canal and wonders if Panama can run it as efficiently and honestly as the Americans," said a European shipping company executive who attended a congress on the future of the canal held here Sept. 7 to 10.
Jorge E. Ritter, whom Mr. Perez Balladares appointed in July as Minister of Canal Affairs and has named to head the future Panama Canal Authority, did not respond to requests for an interview regarding the board's composition. But in an interview late last year, he argued that while "being a friend of the President cannot be the only credential, neither should it be an impediment."
In addition, Joe R. Reeder, the American chairman of the Panama Canal Commission, said in early September that some of the local criticism of Mr. Perez Balladares's choices was unfair and misdirected. Several of the nominees, he pointed out, already serve as members of the commission or the technical or legal working groups that are overseeing the transition.
"I know almost all of them, and I couldn't be more pleased," he said. "In a nation of under three million people, there are many relationships among the established families. But I think the key is the quality and background these individuals bring as successful businessmen and bankers already involved intimately in the business of the canal."
 On Sept. 15, in a move that analysts of canal affairs called surprising, Mr. Reeder announced that he was resigning. His successor is expected to be named in October.
But the prominence of Mr. Ritter, who served first as Panama's Ambassador to Colombia and then as Foreign Minister when General Noriega was in power, is itself seen by many here as a sign of politicization of the canal's administration. Though regarded as enjoying the President's confidence, Mr. Ritter is neither an engineer nor a transportation expert, and testimony during General Noriega's 1991 trial in Miami implicated him in the sale of a car to a member of a Colombian drug cartel.
"We still have to show him where Miraflores is," a union official said in jest, referring to a set of locks just north of the capital. When the United States ran the canal alone, the official said, the board "used to have people who had something to do with transportation, who didn't draw a blank when you said the word 'ship.' "
Concerns about nepotism have been fed by a recent controversy in which a company owned by a cousin of the President, Nicolas Gonzalez Revilla, acquired a virtual stranglehold on television broadcasting in Panama. Mr. Perez Balladares is also a shareholder in the company, Medios Panamenos, which originally owned just one of the country's three networks.
Over the last year, however, Mr. Gonzalez Revilla has gained control of a second network and the country's only cable television service. Press reports here have suggested that the acquisitions were completed and approved with unusual swiftness so that they would not run afoul of a new anti-trust law that, in effect, prevents the emergence of any serious rival.
During the same period, the Government also canceled the license it had awarded to a company that had outbid Mr. Gonzalez Revilla for authorization to offer satellite dish service here. That process, which local press reports said was rife with irregularities, has greatly enhanced the profitability and value of Medios Panamenos, diplomats and bankers here said.
More recently, the Government has been embroiled in a dispute over oddities in the privatization of two ports at either end of the Panama Canal. Last year, five American companies were passed over in favor of a Hong Kong company, Hutchison Whampoa, after a bidding process that the American Ambassador here, William Hughes, criticized as "unfair" and "lacking in transparency."
Now, it appears that Hutchison Whampoa may have also been granted 106 acres of valuable real estate set aside for a railway modernization project being undertaken by an American railroad company. The director of the National Port Authority, Hugo Torrijos, did not respond to requests for an interview to discuss the confusion, but news reports here say that developers of a new airport and a shopping mall may also have claims to pieces of the same parcel.
The United States Transportation Secretary, Rodney Slater, here during the congress on the future of the canal, said Panama had shown signs of responding "to some of the questions that have been raised there." But, he said, "Those are the things people will continue to monitor and focus on."
Amid these controversies, Mr. Perez Balladares, who is scheduled to leave office on Sept. 1, 1999, is attempting to have Panama's Constitution amended so that he can be re-elected. Ever since the country gained its independence from Colombia 94 years ago, no President has been allowed to succeed himself in office.
Under the current Constitution, Mr. Perez Balladares would have to wait two terms, or 10 years, before being eligible to run again. But the Legislative Assembly, which his party controls, is expected to approve soon a proposal that would set a date for a referendum sometime next year on whether Mr. Perez Balladares can remain in office for a second consecutive term, until 2004.
Almost as soon as it takes control of the canal, Panama will have to decide whether to build a new set of locks to accommodate increasing traffic -- a project expected to cost at least $6.5 billion -- and which construction companies should be given the task. There are also proposals afoot, shippers and canal workers say, to privatize some potentially lucrative canal services, such as maintenance.
"Whoever is in power for the next term will have the opportunity to take some big decisions and grant some important contracts," said Ricardo Arias Calderon, a former Vice President and a leader of the opposition Christian Democratic Party. "That generates economic power, and if not done transparently, offers ways to favor certain economic interests and law firms."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Ernesto Perez Balladares has been faulted for naming relatives and friends to run the canal. He spoke recently in Panama City. (Associated Press)
 
Map of Panama showing the Panama Canal: The United States is to hand over the Panama Canal in 1999.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PANAMA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: PANAMA CANAL COMMISSION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: PANAMA CANAL COMMISSION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PANAMA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); BOARD CHANGES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (76%); MARINE SHIPPING (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); FUNDRAISING (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



562 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1555 words

HEADLINE: Scholar Takes On His Toughest Study of Race

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

DATELINE: DURHAM, N.C.

 BODY:
For John Hope Franklin, the problem was maddening: the orchids he was trying to grow 37 years ago in the window box of his Brooklyn apartment either died or failed to bloom. His solution was typical of his approach to a lifelong study of race relations in America: he read everything he could on the subject.
"They're not tough to grow," he said in an interview about his collection of beautiful but temperamental flowers -- including pink doritinopsis and spidery brown and yellow brassidium thriving in his greenhouse. 
 "They enjoy a reputation of being tough," Mr. Franklin added, "the kind of reputation that some people enjoy: being tough when they really aren't."
His successful cultivation of orchids -- including one he developed and named for himself -- may be reflective of his methodical ways. But now, as a professor emeritus at Duke University who wrote "From Slavery to Freedom," which remains the seminal book on African-American history 50 years after it was published, he has taken on a new challenge. It is one that could prove the most daunting of his 82 years: helping to solve the country's vexing racial problems.
As chairman of the advisory board for President Clinton's Initiative on Race and Reconciliation, Mr. Franklin is not lowering expectations.
"I hope it will turn the corner for this nation once and for all with respect to the question of race," he said of the panel, which is to conclude its work in a year and issue recommendations for an action plan by the President, Congress and the American people.
"I don't mean it will all be solved by that time," Mr. Franklin continued. "But I hope it will have the significance of turning the corner so we can look back and say this was the decisive moment, this was the watershed. That's a lot to ask for, but that's what I'm asking."
 President Clinton, in a speech on Thursday in Little Rock commemorating the 40th anniversary of the integration of Central High School there, urged that Americans "not replace the tyranny of segregation with the tragedy of low expectations." Mr. Clinton, who would like to make a turning point in race relations a legacy of his Presidency, may attend the panel's next meeting on Tuesday, Administration officials said.
Despite such an ambitious goal, the seven people on the panel -- three whites, two blacks, one Asian-American and one Hispanic member -- has gotten off to a slow start and has been criticized for not representing a sufficient diversity of political opinion.
Although Mr. Franklin and the other board members were named in June, the White House has yet to fill the panel's 25 to 30 staff jobs. Their only meeting so far, held in mid-July in a conference center across from the White House, was taken up by a wandering discussion of the many issues and institutions the board might examine, including enforcement of civil rights laws, the criminal justice system, education, environmental racism, health services and immigration.
Christopher Edley, a professor at Harvard Law School who is a consultant to the board, "respectfully" suggested that it face the question of how "not to turn this into a commission about everything." The board settled on exploring the effects of race on education and economic opportunities -- at least at the start.
Conservative critics fault the Administration for stacking the board with people whose positions on race relations mirror its own, like support for preference-based affirmative action programs.
"I'm not sure one more commission, having one more discussion with itself, will change America's future," said Speaker Newt Gingrich, who did not respond to Mr. Franklin's overture to Congressional leaders for guidance and suggestions.
Mr. Franklin is unapologetic about the panel's makeup.
"I don't think it's characteristic of Presidents to appoint a representative body that will constitute a debating society," he said. "He wants to get something done. I don't remember President Reagan saying, 'Now that I've appointed one conservative to the Supreme Court, let me go and find a liberal to balance that.' "
Considering the barbs and the panel's confused start, one wonders why Mr. Franklin even took on the job. At his age, he could be pursuing his favorite pastimes, tending his flowers or fishing in a tranquil pond, contemplating nothing more weighty than whether the bluegills are biting crickets or angle worms.
"I hope I still have my mental faculties and I hope I have some of my physical stamina," he said. "But if I have some time left, I can see no better way to spend it than to try to do something about this problem that has deeply affected me personally and this nation throughout the years."
A tall, angular, chocolate-brown man with large hands and the elongated fingers of a basketball player or a concert pianist, Mr. Franklin seems to have the mental acuity and physical endurance of someone 30 years younger.
He gave up jogging five years ago, but still works out on an exercise bicycle and walks briskly for two miles, three times a week. He still enjoys cooking, making everything, including pancakes, from scratch. "There are no mixes allowed in the house," said his son, John Whittington Franklin, a program manager at the American Folklife Center at the Smithsonian Institution.
In between speaking, lecturing, reading and coordinating the work of the advisory board, Mr. Franklin is writing another history book -- his 13th -- this one on runaway slaves. After he finishes that work, he says, he wants to write an autobiography.
"He has boundless energy," said Walter Brown, his friend for more than 50 years and his fishing buddy since Mr. Franklin moved to North Carolina in 1980. "He's a man who can shift gears readily; that may be be part of the secret to his survival and his mental health."
But President Clinton did not select him to head the panel merely for his vigor. Mr. Franklin and others think he was chosen because the President felt that relations between the races could not be understood or improved without some knowledge of history.
"So many books come out these days that assume racism is a dead issue, that it is, in effect, history and let's move forward," said Eric Foner, a professor of history at Columbia University. "I don't think we should wallow in history. But I think you can't understand the current racial situation without some understanding of history. So the choice of a historian to head this committee is a wise one."
In Mr. Franklin's case, he has lived, not just studied, the history of black people in America.
He worked with Thurgood Marshall in 1953, writing briefs in the historic desegregation case, Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka, Kan. And he marched with Martin Luther King Jr. in Montgomery, Ala., in 1965.
As a 10-year-old boy in Rentiesville, Okla., he fretted with his mother over the fate of his father, a lawyer who was caught in the infamous 1921 race riot in nearby Tulsa when mobs of whites, jealous of the economic success of blacks in north Tulsa, went on a rampage, killing blacks, pillaging and burning buildings, even dropping dynamite from airplanes. More than 100 blacks were killed. The elder Franklin was spared, but his office was destroyed.
Mr. Franklin attended the segregated Booker T. Washington High School in Tulsa. While white students at a nearby high school were taught French, Spanish and calculus, the youngsters at Booker T. Washington were offered typing, shorthand, auto mechanics and home economics.
Asked how racism had most affected him, Mr. Franklin, who has traveled extensively, lamented his lack of facility in any foreign language. "I felt it deeply when I went to France and Germany and Austria and Italy to lecture, and to the Soviet Union and to China," he recalled with a sigh. "And across town, they were teaching modern foreign languages, but not in my high school."
Despite these setbacks, Mr. Franklin has displayed a surprising lack of bitterness throughout most of his life. Indeed, when "From Slavery to Freedom" was published in 1947, reviewers noted its lack of rancor or polemics. It was, some reviewers and historians said, black history without a chip on its shoulder.
The tone of the book became more critical in later years, Mr. Franklin said, as it went through several editions -- it is in its seventh printing -- and the state of race relations changed. His pessimism reached its low point between the third edition, which was published in 1967, the year of the riots in Newark and Detroit when black-white relations became intensely polarized, and the fourth edition printed in 1974.
"I wasn't very happy about what I was seeing," he recalled. "And I thought those editions reflected my unhappiness."
As he has aged, however, he says he has softened. He is worried about the stalling of black progress but says he is no longer despairing.
"Over all, I think the book might reflect cautious optimism," he recently told reporters at a symposium at Duke commemorating the 50th anniversary of its publication.
"I think that's where I stand today with respect to the President's initiative on race, and where we are in the history of African-Americans. I'm cautiously optimistic about the future, which means that I have some reservations and a lot of caveats."

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Hope Franklin sets ambitious goals, whether the work involves race relations or his prized orchids. (Karen Tam for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Chart/Photos: "Advising the President on Race"
The advisory board for President Clinton's Initiative on Race and Reconciliation contains six members besides John Hope Franklin.
 
Suzan D. Johnson Cook
Senior pastor, Bronx Christian Fellowship Church; first female chaplain of New York City Police Department; a White House Fellow in 1993-1994.
 
"I think the discussion is definitely multiracial. I think what we were trying to factor is to make sure we don't leave out the historical perspective on how we got here and that there is a time line and a journey that brought us to this point. And we can't ignore the journey, but we must also not stay at this point, but go forward."
 
Robert Thomas
President and chief executive, Nissan Motor Corporation U.S.A.; created partnership with the Los Angeles Urban League to increase opportunities for women and members of minority groups in the automobile industry.
 
"For America to be strong in the global marketplace as we go into the next century, we've got to be certain that we don't have any racial or diversity issues that divide us and weaken us."
 
Thomas H. Kean
President, Drew University in Madison, N.J.; chairman of President Clinton's NationalCampaign to Prevent Teen Pregnancy; former Republican Governor of New Jersey.
 
"As we look around at the country we love, we see schools that are more segregated in my state than they were 30 years ago. We see neighborhoods that continue to be made up of simply one ethnic group or one race. We see clubs and we see even churches where we don't have a chance to co-mingle with people who are not like us."
 
Angela E. Oh
Los Angeles lawyer specializing in criminal defense; well-known advocate in the Asian-American community; appointed to a special crisis committee set up after the Los Angeles riots in 1992.
 
"As we move through this process of dialogue I just want to make sure that we go beyond the black-white paradigm. We need to go beyond that because the world is about much more than that, and this is sort of the next horizon."
 
Linda Chavez-Thompson
Executive vice president, A.F.L.- C.I.O.; 29 years experience in the labor movement; worked in cotton fields in Texas as a youth and later
organized workers throughout the Southwest.
 
"To those who believe the battle against discrimination has been won, I say, look at the realities of paychecks and power."
 
William F. Winter
Former Democratic Governor of Mississippi who fought for equal opportunity and better relations between the races; currently in private law practice.
 
"Most white people seem to think we've come further than most black people think we have. The twin goals of achieving racial equity and the elimination of racial prejudice continue to recede before all the advances that we have made. The fault line of race is the paramount factor in keeping us from realizing our full potential as a people." (pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); DURHAM, NC, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: AFL-CIO (59%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (56%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (59%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (56%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); DURHAM, NC, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available RACE & RACISM (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); HISTORY (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); SLAVERY (67%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



563 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1609 words

HEADLINE: LEADERS OF G.O.P. SEEK TO OVERHAUL FEDERAL TAX CODE

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 27

 BODY:
On the third anniversary of their Contract with America, Republican leaders in Congress have begun a concerted drive to move beyond their signature issue of tax cuts and shift the national debate to a radical revision of the tax code.
The push toward fundamentally revising the progressive income tax, or scrapping it altogether, comes as the Republican Party begins an intense internal debate over a fiscal agenda to follow the balanced-budget agreement. It also reflects the fact that pollsters say voters are becoming less responsive to simple promises of tax cuts. 
 "As we've talked to citizens in the last few months about where to go beyond the Contract, over and over people have said to us, 'Don't just cut taxes -- reform the system,' " said Speaker Newt Gingrich in a telephone interview.
To lay the groundwork, Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the majority leader, and Representative W. J. Tauzin of Louisiana, announced this week that they were embarking on a three-city "Scrap the Code" tax tour in October. The pair plan to debate the merits of Mr. Armey's proposal for a flat tax and Mr. Tauzin's call to substitute a national retail sales tax for the income tax.
Even inside the Republican Party, this promises to be a divisive debate. House Republican leaders acknowledge that no consensus yet exists among their members on what kind of tax revision to embrace.
Some wary Republicans remember how Steve Forbes's call for a flat tax came under attack in the 1996 Republican primaries by critics saying it would sacrifice billions in Federal revenue and help the wealthy at the expense of the middle class.
And because Mr. Gingrich has also pledged that the party will push for a new tax cut every year, his remarks have sent Republicans in the House and Senate rushing to promote a favorite idea for consideration, even though most targeted tax breaks would be eviscerated under any radical tax revision.
Republicans are also split over whether to push the tax revision issue forward next spring in time for the 1998 midterm Congressional elections or wait for the Presidential campaign two years later. To force the tax issue to the top of the Presidential agenda, several House Republicans have already introduced bills to have the Federal tax code simply expire in 2000 or 2001.
"The ultimate goal, obviously, is to have radical tax reform," said Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the House majority whip. "We have not decided exactly how you get there."
The ferment inside the G.O.P. comes at a time when the nation looks toward a balanced budget at century's end.
With majorities of both political parties in Congress having voted for the plan to erase the Federal deficit by 2002 and to trim taxes, Democrats have cut into the Republicans' traditional advantage on fiscal issues.
Moreover, some Republicans say that 16 years after Ronald Reagan rode into office as the apostle of slashing taxes, pollsters are finding cynicism about tax cuts.
"What pollsters are telling us," a House Republican aide said, "is that the tax cut issue doesn't pack the punch it once packed, but Republicans would be foolish to walk away from the tax cut issue because it's ours and we should keep it."
In a recent 222-page advice manual he sent to Republican lawmakers, Frank Luntz, a consultant who helped craft the Contract with America, described taxes as "the perennial G.O.P. issue, an issue we can never, ever afford to cede to the Democrats."
He said he had found "enormous political support" for "tax reform." But he warned that because former President George Bush and President Clinton had both made tax pledges that they broke, "the public just doesn't trust politicians who promise tax cuts."
In addition, he said: "Our success has shot us in the foot. We did such a good job expressing the urgency of balancing the Federal budget that any talk of tax 'cuts' makes the public think about the balanced budget. Where the alleged 'cuts' are going to come from?"
Mr. Luntz advised Republicans to talk about tax relief instead of tax cuts and to campaign against the Internal Revenue Service.
Another factor driving the G.O.P. debate, lawmakers say, is the belief that the booming economy will probably bring in more tax revenue in the next few years than had been projected in the balanced-budget agreement. That has started lawmakers in both parties thinking about the politics of a surplus.
Some Republicans have been arguing that at least some part of any surplus money should go to pay off not just the deficit, but the national debt. Representative Mark W. Neumann, a Wisconsin Republican, has proposed capping spending below revenue and dedicating two-thirds of the surplus to debt reduction and a third to tax reduction.
Other Republicans continue to focus on tax-cutting. House sophomores are proposing the elimination of the so-called marriage penalty, under which many married couples who file jointly are pushed into higher tax brackets because of their combined income. Several House freshmen said that they were crafting a tax cut plan for 1998.
Senator John Ashcroft of Missouri has a proposal to let people deduct from their taxable income the part of their payroll taxes that goes to Social Security. "Frankly, at a time when a political party is in the majority, it's time for it to broaden its base, not just to reinforce its base," Mr. Ashcroft said.
But the longer-term goal, party leaders say, is to shift the debate toward the radical revision of the nation's tax system.
"I think the first thing we need to do is to have a rock-solid opinion in the country that the current system is so flawed that it can't be fixed and that it needs to be replaced," said Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, chairman of the House Republican Conference. "And there's a national discussion that needs to go on to validate that that's in fact the case."
Part of that discussion began this week when the Senate Finance Committee held hearings on the I.R.S. The panel heard emotional testimony from four taxpayers, including a retired priest who was wrongly assessed $18,000 in taxes from his mother's estate and a California woman who struggled with the agency for 17 years over a mixup about her husband's identity.
On Thursday, Mr. Armey and Mr. Tauzin, wearing tags proclaiming "Scrap the Code," announced their tax tour to Columbus, Ohio, Atlanta and Chicago and theatrically tossed tomes containing the Federal tax code into a large garbage can. Pointing to the Senate hearings, Mr. Armey said: "You want a civilized agency, you've got to have a civilized code. The current code is an abomination. The American people do not want it. The American people should be rid of it."
Mr. Tauzin, who supports a national retail sales tax, condemned the income tax as "too complex, too misunderstandable, too incomprehensible for anyone.
"You know what someone once said?" Mr. Tauzin asked with relish. "The hardest thing to understand is the United States income tax system. And you know who said it? Albert Einstein. Albert Einstein couldn't understand this tax code."
In the past, Republican leaders had acknowledged that they had no hope of pushing through a fundamental change in the tax code as long as President Clinton was in the White House.
Mr. Clinton dismissed the flat tax in a television interview last year, saying, "I have never seen a single tax rate that did not either raise taxes on everybody that was making less than $100,000 a year or leave us with a much bigger deficit." And Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, Mr. Clinton's most influential economic adviser, staunchly defends the progressive income tax system.
Not all Republicans have an appetite for getting into a veto fight with Mr. Clinton next year over the tax code, uncertain whether the debate would help them in 1998 or backfire.
And even without opposition from Democrats, the Republicans would have a difficult time transforming theoretical approaches to changing the tax code into reality. The practical difficulties of shifting from one tax system to another would be enormous in an economy as big and complex as the United States, economists say. The scramble for preferential treatment among interest groups would be intense if the old system were to be thrown out. In the past, flat tax proposals have brought demands for the preservation of popular tax breaks like the mortgage-interest deduction for homeowners.
Aware of the potential difficulties, some Republican leaders are cautious about getting ahead of public opinion. "Some have said that if the time is right, we move this summer, but I can't believe the time would be right this summer," Mr. DeLay said.
One of the most ardent Congressional proponents of a national sales or consumption tax is Representative Bill Archer of Texas, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, which oversees tax matters. Even so, he passed up the chance to go on the road to debate with Mr. Armey.
"I have been very reluctant to do this because I would prefer to see us resolve our differences within the party and have a unified approach to the people," he said. "To me, we should be focusing on a process that would bring about that decision."
But Mr. Gingrich says he thinks the time could be ripe to act as early as next spring. "Tax reform becomes our answer to campaign finance reform because what people really mean is they don't want a lot of high-paid lobbyists running around getting paid to pressure the system," he said.
"The country's sick of lobbyists," he said, "and nothing will do more to lead to unemployment of lobbyists."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available TAXES & TAXATION (95%); TAX LAW (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); TAX REFORM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); SALES TAX (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (56%); 

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



564 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 1; Classified

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
SWIG, RICHARD

 BODY:
SWIG-Richard. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) express profound regret at the loss of Richard Swig of San Francisco. Chairman of the board of the Northern California chapter of the ATS for the past decade, Mr. Swig was fervent in his support of Israel and education and research at the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology. He served on the Technion International Board of Governors and the ATS Board of Regents. Together with his wife, Roselyne, he established the Roselyne and Richard Swig Sports Hall and supported the Baltimore Aerospace Laboratories, the Trauma Helicopter Development Project and other programs at the Technion. In recognition of his commitment, Mr. Swig was awarded an Honorary Fellowship from the Technion in 1995. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Roselyne Swig and to the entire Swig family. American Society for Technion-Israel Institute of Technology Irving A. Shepard, President Ben Z. Sosewitz, Chariman of the Board Melvyn H. Bloom, Executive Vice President Sidney Konigsberg, Northern California Chapter President Jack Kadesh, Northwest Region Director
SWIG-Richard. The leadership and staff of the State of Israel Bonds organization mourn the passing of our dear friend and supporter Richard Swig of San Francisco. His life was a model of philanthropic and humanitarian devotion and he will be greatly missed. A longtime friend of the Israel Bonds organization, his inspired leadership and generous support spurred our San Francisco campaign to new heights in raising investment funds for Israel's economic development. In all areas of endeavor, Richard Swig set the standard to be emulated. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Roselyne "Cissie" Swig and the entire family. Gideon Patt President William Belzberg Chairman of the Board Burton P. Resnick National Campaign Chairman David B. Hermelin International Chairman Susan Weikers-Volchok International Campaign Chairman Michael Siegal North American Campaign Chairman Milton Jacobs San Francisco General Chairman
SWIG-Richard L. The American Friends of The Hebrew University deeply mourn the passing of Richard L. Swig of San Francisco. His leadership in his community, devotion to Israel and passion for life serve as an inspiration for us all. He was a loyal supporter and friend of The Hebrew University, and he and his family are among our Benefactors and Founders. We express our most sincere condolences to his wife, Cissie, and his entire family. The American Friends of The Hebrew University Keith L. Sachs, President Lawrence Newman, Chairman of the Board Adam B. Kahan, Executive Vice President
SWIG-Richard L. Ben-Gurion University of The Negev and its American Associates mourn the passing of prominent Philanthropist and Jewish community leader, Richard Swig of California. We extend heartfelt condolences to Roselyne Swig, his wife of 47 years, and their children, Rick, Susan, Marjorie and Carol; his brother-in-law, Richard Dinner; his sister-in-law, Charlotte Shultz, and the entire Swig family, who are longtime friends and generous supporters of Ben-Gurion University of The Negev. Professor Avishay Braverman, President, BGU Harold L. Oshry, Chairman Kenneth L. Tucker, President
SWIG-Richard L. The members of the Weiler and Arnow families are saddened by the death of our associate and partner of many years. We extend our sincere sympathy and condolences to his wife, Roselyne, his children, and all of the members of the Swig and Dinner families. The Weiler and Arnow Families

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Paid Death Notice

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR TECHNION-ISRAEL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR TECHNION-ISRAEL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PHILANTHROPY (87%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (71%); HELICOPTERS (70%); 

PERSON: SWIG, RICHARD

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 1997



565 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 1; AutomobilesSection 11;Page 1;Column 1;Automobiles

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: BEHIND THE WHEEL/Mercury Grand Marquis;
Rear Drive but Refusing to Retire: A Case of Modern Maturity

BYLINE: By LEONARD M. APCAR By LEONARD M. APCAR

 BODY:
MY first thought as I slid behind the wheel of a tan Mercury Grand Marquis: "Detroit sure doesn't make cars like this anymore." But it does. The front bench seat, split into two sections, is as long and supple as a sofa. One's legs stretch out in a space that is deep and wide, and the top of the dashboard, which swoops from pillar to pillar, has the look of a surfboard. Up front is a powerful V8 and in the back, the traditional gearing for rear-wheel drive.
My second thought: "Does anybody buy these?" Sure, the Grand Marquis is commonly used by car services in New York City and its similar sibling, the Ford Crown Victoria, is ubiquitous as a taxi. Police departments around the country snap up the Crown Vic, too. But do hard-working Americans, faced with an array of four-wheel-drive sport utilities, snazzy front-drive sedans and smart neo-luxury cars, sign the papers to drive away in what amounts to an updated version of a family car of the 1960's? 
 You bet they do. Ford sold more than 200,000 copies of the Grand Marquis and Crown Vic last year, comparable to the sales of all Chrysler-brand cars, and many of those went to repeat buyers. They like the old-style 4.6-liter V8 with its 190 horsepower and the room for six people. They love the monstrous trunk.
Consumer Reports and other car-buying guides recommend the Grand Marquis for reliability, safety and value. Nicely equipped, the sticker price on the spiffier LS version I drove approached $27,000. But a little haggling and a $1,500 rebate, which expires on Tuesday, can whittle that down considerably.
And for all the acceptance of front-wheel drive, its advantages in snow and its compact design, rear-wheel drive is still preferred by many purists who like the handling and control it provides. Indeed, it is still the powertrain of choice for the fussy engineers responsible for high-performance automobiles like Jaguars, BMW's and Mercedes-Benzes. They like it for its weight distribution and its superb handling in high-speed turns.
Climb in, rev the engine and step on the gas. The hood rises up, you sink back in the plush seat and the rear wheels literally push you down the road. It's a thrill some people will never part with. To them, everything else is just mass transit.
While General Motors and Chrysler have abandoned the market for V8-powered, rear-drive sedans, Ford carries on. With the Lincoln Town Car, Grand Marquis and Crown Victoria, it has catered to a niche that is very profitable -- and made more so by G.M.'s withdrawal from the segment last year. In fact, these are among the few car lines that make money for Ford.
And the company fully intends to keep making them. A restyled 1998 Town Car arrives on Nov. 26, and the modestly freshened '98 Grand Marquis and Crown Victoria, with new roof lines and different front and rear styling, will be available in late December. You can expect more drastic changes in about four years.
For now, the Grand Marquis is a lot of old-fashioned car. I found it easily carried six people, as advertised. On highways, particularly straight ones, it made driving effortless and comfortable, especially with the optional "twin comfort seats" with big armrests and power lumbar support for the driver. Wind noise at highway speeds was surprisingly low for a large car with a generous silhouette. The ride, while soft, was not so mushy that I felt I was bouncing down the road.
And though this is a big, old-fashioned car, it doesn't quite drive like one. Piloting one of Detroit's big old boats used to make you feel you were maneuvering an aircraft carrier. But with a touch of aerodynamic styling the view over the hood is complete, and good visibility to the rear makes parallel parking simple -- even though, at nearly 18 feet, this is one of the longest cars on the road.
Where handling suffered was on the twists and turns. This is no rival to the performance sedans of BMW, Mercedes and Infiniti. The Grand Marquis tends to sway and buck into a turn at even modest speeds. Some of that is because the chassis is bolted to the frame, an old-fashioned, two-piece design that has been largely replaced by "unit body" construction in which the floor, roof and pillars make up the frame.
Mercury offers a handling package that includes 16-inch wheels, a tuned suspension and stabilizer bars that should help the car feel more like one harmonious unit, but this is still a large cruiser, not a driving machine. (Ford says it is making the handling of the 1998 version more crisp.)
Inside the big Mercury, comforts abound. On a hot summer day in California, where the temperature was 60 degrees at sunrise and exceeded 100 by midafternoon, the automatic air-conditioning system cooled the entire cabin quickly and consistently. The electronic instrument panel included two trip odometers, which keep fuel economy separate from day-trip mileage, and the dash included two cup holders. For storage there were compartments in the front doors and pockets behind the front seats. The lockable glove box was good sized; someone had remembered to rig it up to drop slowly and quietly, a nice detail.
And the trunk was practically a bottomless pit. At 20.6 cubic feet, the trunk of the '97 model is second only to the Town Car, which golfers celebrate for its ability to tote four bags of clubs. On a family trip, the Grand Marquis swallowed two large suitcases, two garment bags, a set of golf clubs, a modest-sized cardboard box and four small duffel bags. No wonder traveling salespeople love this trunk.
In the 1998 redesigns, the Town Car's trunk will lose nearly two cubic feet of cargo room. The way the rear window slopes down cuts into space at the back of the trunk. The '98 Mercury's rear window design is similar but the trunk will turn out to be the same size as the '97.
When I tested this car, I tended to notice who else was driving them. And virtually all the drivers I spotted looked as if they were, well, enjoying their retirement -- or getting ready for it. Ford acknowledges that the average buyer is up there in years, reflecting the car's appeal to a generation that grew up in roomy, rear-drive cars. The disadvantage is that they won't be buyers forever.
But there is one advantage to having customers with extra time on their hands. On next year's auto show circuit, enthusiastic Grand Marquis owners will be at the exhibits, Ford says, to talk about how much they like their Mercurys.
 
INSIDE TRACK: A car for the ages.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sales rose for the '97 Grand Marquis, left. The look is a bit different for '98, right, and the handling has been tweaked.
 
Table: "The Last of Detroit's Rear-Drive, V8-Powered Sedans" lists price and features of the '97 Ford Crown Victoria, '98 Lincoln Town Car, '98 Mercury Grand Marquis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO FORD MOTOR CO (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SEDANS (89%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); POLICE FORCES (69%); 

PERSON: APCAR, LEONARD M

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



566 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign DeskSection 1;Page 9;Column 1;Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Slowly, U.S. Is Returning Some Envoys To the Sudan

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 26

 BODY:
Revising its strategy of treating the Sudan as a complete pariah state, the Clinton Administration decided this week to put a handful of diplomats back in Khartoum to press the North African nation to stop harboring Palestinian, Lebanese, Egyptian and Algerian terrorists.
The Sudan's Islamic Government welcomed the announcement as a victory in its efforts to soften the American diplomatic line against it. But Administration officials said that sending diplomats back to the Sudan would allow the United States to increase pressure on Khartoum. 
 The United States says the Sudan is guilty of promoting slavery, torturing Christians, conspiring to plan the bombing of the United Nations headquarters and other New York City landmarks in 1993 and participating in an assassination attempt on President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt in 1995.
"With a permanent presence, we can nudge and push and argue," said Timothy M. Carney, the United States Ambassador to the Sudan, who was removed from Khartoum, the capital, in February 1996 with his staff of 24 diplomats and Marine Corps guards.
Up to eight American officials, though not Mr. Carney, will return to Khartoum over the next few months to investigate human rights abuses, monitor and encourage peace talks between the Government and a rebel army operating in the southern Sudan, and to push Khartoum to fulfill its recent public promises to oppose terrorism, State Department officials said.
Administration officials said the new embassy staff also would be able to gather intelligence on a number of terrorist groups they say are operating out of the Sudan, including the Lebanese Party of God, or Hezbollah; Hamas, and the Palestinian Islamic Jihad.
The question of whether it is better to isolate or to talk with hostile states like the Sudan, Iran, Libya or North Korea is as old as diplomacy itself. No easy answers have emerged.
In early 1996, John M. Deutch, who was then the Central Intelligence Agency's director, persuaded the Secretary of State, Warren Christopher, to remove American diplomats from Khartoum, citing rising security concerns. Over the last nine months, a consensus emerged within the State Department and the C.I.A. to reopen the diplomatic mission, Administration officials said, but two senior members of the National Security Council staff argued against reversing policy.
"The question was whether we would be giving the regime too much comfort," Mr. Carney, a consistent proponent of engagement with the Sudan, said in a telephone interview.
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright broke the deadlock this month, Administration officials said, after concluding that the Sudanese Government's more moderate public stance over the last year should be tested. But to make sure that Washington's intentions are not misunderstood, the Administration will increase levels of nonlethal military aid to Ethiopia and Eritrea, two countries fighting insurgencies supported by the Sudan, said a State Department official, who spoke on condition of anonymity.
The Administration is also considering new economic sanctions against Khartoum as well as renewed diplomatic efforts to persuade France and other European countries not to develop their economic relations with the Sudan.
Mr. Carney said he would not return to Khartoum, so the embassy will be staffed by lower-ranking diplomats. Instead, he will continue to shuttle between his home in Nairobi, Kenya, and Khartoum, as he has since he was withdrawn.
Mahdi Ibrahim Mohamed, the Sudan's Ambassador to Washington, said he viewed the Administration's willingness to put diplomats back in Khartoum as a major development toward improving relations. "This is a natural step in the direction of deepening the dialogue," he said.
Asked if his Government would now respond to American concerns about the Sudanese Government's alleged encouragement of terrorism, he said, "I don't want to be dragged into issues that only perpetuate hostilities between our two countries."
Mr. Mohamed's repeated pleas for warmer relations since his arrival in Washington in February 1996 have been part of a concerted effort by the Sudan to promote a more moderate image. Last year, the ruling National Islamic Front deported Osama bin Laden, a Saudi-born financier of extremist groups, and also turned the famed terrorist known as Carlos the Jackal over to France.
Mr. Carney noted that the Sudan had indicated that it was ready to sever its relations with other terrorists, but that its "efforts have been discreet and not insistent." With a permanent American diplomatic presence in the Sudan, he said, "We will press Khartoum to make good on its continual public statements that it opposes terrorism."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SUDAN (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EGYPT (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); LEBANON (93%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); ERITREA (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HEZBOLLAH; ISLAMIC JIHAD; HAMAS (ISLAMIC FUNDAMENTALIST MOVEMENT) HEZBOLLAH (84%); AL-ISLAMI AL-JIHAD (59%); HAMAS (59%); AL-ISLAMI AL-JIHAD (59%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH; ISLAMIC JIHAD; HAMAS (ISLAMIC FUNDAMENTALIST MOVEMENT) HEZBOLLAH (84%); AL-ISLAMI AL-JIHAD (59%); HAMAS (59%); AL-ISLAMI AL-JIHAD (59%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SUDAN; MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; SUDAN (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EGYPT (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); LEBANON (93%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); ERITREA (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); KHARTOUM, SUDAN (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE; SUDAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US RELIGION (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); TERRORISM (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); HAMAS (89%); HEZBOLLAH (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); ASSASSINATION (77%); FUNDAMENTALISM (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); TORTURE (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); ARMIES (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); PEACE PROCESS (68%); ARMED FORCES (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); 

PERSON: CARNEY, TIMOTHY M (AMB); KRAUSS, CLIFFORD HOSNI MUBARAK (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



567 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 4; Foreign DeskSection 1;Page 16;Column 4;Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1549 words

HEADLINE: Panama Leader Accused of Cronyism Over Appointees to Run the Canal

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: PANAMA

 BODY:
As a presidential candidate in 1994, Ernesto Perez Balladares was burdened by voters' misgivings about his party's unsavory ties to the deposed dictatorship of Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega. To allay those fears, he promised that, if elected, he would treat the Panama Canal not as the spoils of victory, but as the jewel of the national patrimony.
Now, having announced his choices for the board of directors that will run the vital waterway after the United States hands it over to Panama in 1999, Mr. Perez Balladares is being accused of breaking his word. Among his nominees to what will be an 11-member board are four members of his own or his wife's family, including a first cousin, a son-in-law and the spouses of two other cousins. 
 In addition, Mr. Perez Balladares has appointed one of the chief fund-raisers of his election campaign, a businessman famous for being embroiled in lawsuits. Other selections include two leading members of the Revolutionary Democratic Party who served General Noriega as his Foreign Minister and Interior Minister, and the son of Mr. Perez Balladares's own former Foreign Minister.
Reaction to the President's appointments among opposition groups, unions and the press has been caustic and angry. A cartoon published in the country's leading newspaper, La Prensa, early in September showed Mr. Perez Balladares greedily stuffing himself with pieces of a birthday cake labeled "Canal" as a voice calls out, "Darling, your relatives have arrived," while four other hands reach for portions.
In an editorial, the newspaper reproached Mr. Perez Balladares for violating "a tacit understanding among the leaders of all parties that the Canal is to be placed above and beyond the political fray" and "out of the reach of ignoble appetites." With the naming of the new board, the newspaper continued, "the Canal has been converted into a fount of juicy sinecures for the relatives and associates of the President."
As required by a pair of treaties signed 20 years ago, the waterway is currently managed by the Panama Canal Commission, an American Government agency whose board has five American and four Panamanian members. At noon on Dec. 31, 1999, that panel will give way to the Panama Canal Authority, to be directed by the all-Panamanian board appointed by the Government here.
Shipping companies and foreign governments have never questioned the ability of ordinary canal employees, whose professionalism and dedication to the waterway were demonstrated during the Noriega dictatorship. Already, more than 92 percent of the waterway's 9,800 workers, including more than two-thirds of the pilots who steer ships through the canal, are Panamanians.
Nor have the qualifications of the Panama Canal's administrator, Alberto Aleman Zubieta, been challenged. A Panamanian engineer educated in the United States, Mr. Aleman was appointed last year, and has been praised as a capable and impartial civil servant by shippers concerned about the canal's transition from American to Panamanian hands.
But shippers, diplomats, canal employees and their unions have not expressed the same confidence in Mr. Perez Balladares's decision to turn to relatives, friends and political associates to set canal policy.
"This sends the wrong signal to everyone who uses the canal and wonders if Panama can run it as efficiently and honestly as the Americans," said a European shipping company executive who attended a congress on the future of the canal held here Sept. 7 to 10.
Jorge E. Ritter, whom Mr. Perez Balladares appointed in July as Minister of Canal Affairs and has named to head the future Panama Canal Authority, did not respond to requests for an interview regarding the board's composition. But in an interview late last year, he argued that while "being a friend of the President cannot be the only credential, neither should it be an impediment."
In addition, Joe R. Reeder, the American chairman of the Panama Canal Commission, said in early September that some of the local criticism of Mr. Perez Balladares's choices was unfair and misdirected. Several of the nominees, he pointed out, already serve as members of the commission or the technical or legal working groups that are overseeing the transition.
"I know almost all of them, and I couldn't be more pleased," he said. "In a nation of under three million people, there are many relationships among the established families. But I think the key is the quality and background these individuals bring as successful businessmen and bankers already involved intimately in the business of the canal."
 On Sept. 15, in a move that analysts of canal affairs called surprising, Mr. Reeder announced that he was resigning. His successor is expected to be named in October.
But the prominence of Mr. Ritter, who served first as Panama's Ambassador to Colombia and then as Foreign Minister when General Noriega was in power, is itself seen by many here as a sign of politicization of the canal's administration. Though regarded as enjoying the President's confidence, Mr. Ritter is neither an engineer nor a transportation expert, and testimony during General Noriega's 1991 trial in Miami implicated him in the sale of a car to a member of a Colombian drug cartel.
"We still have to show him where Miraflores is," a union official said in jest, referring to a set of locks just north of the capital. When the United States ran the canal alone, the official said, the board "used to have people who had something to do with transportation, who didn't draw a blank when you said the word 'ship.' "
Concerns about nepotism have been fed by a recent controversy in which a company owned by a cousin of the President, Nicolas Gonzalez Revilla, acquired a virtual stranglehold on television broadcasting in Panama. Mr. Perez Balladares is also a shareholder in the company, Medios Panamenos, which originally owned just one of the country's three networks.
Over the last year, however, Mr. Gonzalez Revilla has gained control of a second network and the country's only cable television service. Press reports here have suggested that the acquisitions were completed and approved with unusual swiftness so that they would not run afoul of a new anti-trust law that, in effect, prevents the emergence of any serious rival.
During the same period, the Government also canceled the license it had awarded to a company that had outbid Mr. Gonzalez Revilla for authorization to offer satellite dish service here. That process, which local press reports said was rife with irregularities, has greatly enhanced the profitability and value of Medios Panamenos, diplomats and bankers here said.
More recently, the Government has been embroiled in a dispute over oddities in the privatization of two ports at either end of the Panama Canal. Last year, five American companies were passed over in favor of a Hong Kong company, Hutchison Whampoa, after a bidding process that the American Ambassador here, William Hughes, criticized as "unfair" and "lacking in transparency."
Now, it appears that Hutchison Whampoa may have also been granted 106 acres of valuable real estate set aside for a railway modernization project being undertaken by an American railroad company. The director of the National Port Authority, Hugo Torrijos, did not respond to requests for an interview to discuss the confusion, but news reports here say that developers of a new airport and a shopping mall may also have claims to pieces of the same parcel.
The United States Transportation Secretary, Rodney Slater, here during the congress on the future of the canal, said Panama had shown signs of responding "to some of the questions that have been raised there." But, he said, "Those are the things people will continue to monitor and focus on."
Amid these controversies, Mr. Perez Balladares, who is scheduled to leave office on Sept. 1, 1999, is attempting to have Panama's Constitution amended so that he can be re-elected. Ever since the country gained its independence from Colombia 94 years ago, no President has been allowed to succeed himself in office.
Under the current Constitution, Mr. Perez Balladares would have to wait two terms, or 10 years, before being eligible to run again. But the Legislative Assembly, which his party controls, is expected to approve soon a proposal that would set a date for a referendum sometime next year on whether Mr. Perez Balladares can remain in office for a second consecutive term, until 2004.
Almost as soon as it takes control of the canal, Panama will have to decide whether to build a new set of locks to accommodate increasing traffic -- a project expected to cost at least $6.5 billion -- and which construction companies should be given the task. There are also proposals afoot, shippers and canal workers say, to privatize some potentially lucrative canal services, such as maintenance.
"Whoever is in power for the next term will have the opportunity to take some big decisions and grant some important contracts," said Ricardo Arias Calderon, a former Vice President and a leader of the opposition Christian Democratic Party. "That generates economic power, and if not done transparently, offers ways to favor certain economic interests and law firms."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Ernesto Perez Balladares has been faulted for naming relatives and friends to run the canal. He spoke recently in Panama City. (Associated Press)
 
Map of Panama showing the Panama Canal: The United States is to hand over the Panama Canal in 1999.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PANAMA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: PANAMA CANAL COMMISSION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: PANAMA CANAL COMMISSION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PANAMA; PANAMA CANAL AND CANAL ZONE; PANAMA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: NEPOTISM; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; ETHICS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); BOARD CHANGES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (76%); MARINE SHIPPING (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); ETHICS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); FUNDRAISING (68%); 

PERSON: PEREZ BALLADARES, ERNESTO (PRES); ROHTER, LARRY

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1997



568 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Poland Achieves Politics as Usual

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: WARSAW

 BODY:
THE change of government in Poland from the remodeled former Communists to the heirs of the fiercely anti-Communist Solidarity movement was surprise enough in last week's elections. But will this mean much difference in the direction of increasingly prosperous, westward-looking Poland? Probably not.
The big news was not so much the results of the vote but the widespread feeling that Poland had achieved a milestone in the deepening of its democratic process. 
 If a mature democracy is marked by broad consensus on most issues, Poland seems to be fast approaching adulthood. George Wallace used to say about the big American political parties, "Not a dime's worth of difference." Indeed, some in the Polish press equate the two major parties to American counterparts: for shorthand, the former Communists, paradoxically, are referred to as the Republicans (supported by big business) and Solidarity as the Democrats (supported by trade unions).
The difference in the origins of Poland's two main political parties could not be more stark: they were, to begin, Communists and anti-Communists. But each side -- in Solidarity's case it is not so much a party as an umbrella for more than three dozen groups -- has been nudged toward the center. Both sides agree that Poland's security depends on membership in NATO and its economic well-being on entry to the European Union.
Within these broad strands of agreement, there are, of course, differences on how to achieve them.
Solidarity's supporters tend to work in heavy industry and agriculture, two sectors that will be adversely affected by integration into Europe. Hence, Solidarity is more Euro-skeptical. As it proceeds with Poland's accession to NATO, Solidarity will tend to follow Washington's lead rather than voices from the European capitals.
At home, Solidarity voters were expressing discontent with a judicial system subject to political pressure from the last four years of rule by the former Communists and a civil service packed with recruits from the old guard. Some politicians, helped by having cronies at the helm of big industries, controlled whole chunks of the economy, a situation that rankled.
 
The Big Two
On these and similar issues, the voters made their choices. But many, demonstrating that they had learned much about the realities of political parties, abandoned smaller parties they had favored in the past and chose instead between the big two.
"This is real progress," said Wojciech Pawlak, the president of OBOP, the major Polish polling organization. "Voters realized that the smaller parties are irrelevant." Thus, Poland has moved from a series of fragmented Parliaments in the first few years after the fall of Communism to a "fairly non-representative Parliament" in the last four years to a "most representative Parliament," Mr. Pawlak said.
More than 30 percent of the voters in the 1993 parliamentary elections voted for small parties that did not get more than 5 percent of the total -- the threshold for representation in Parliament. This time, some minor parties joined forces with Solidarity; those that still insisted on fielding candidates were virtually ignored by the voters.
There were other tactical moves by the increasingly sophisticated electorate. Some who opposed the return of the former Communists voted for Solidarity, even while they really preferred the centrist Freedom Union party, led by Leszek Balcerowicz, to insure a big margin for Solidarity. As it turned out, Solidarity won with 34 percent, followed by the former Communists, known as the Left Democratic Alliance, with 27 percent. The Freedom Union, the choice of the emerging business and professional class, intellectuals and former dissidents, received 13 percent. Solidarity and Freedom Union started negotiations after the vote about the shape of the coalition government they plan to form.
It took little time for the former Communists to understand that they had been badly beaten. They announced that they would form a "loyal opposition" in Parliament, an important promise if Poland's current economic growth -- an annual rate of about 6 percent -- is to be maintained.
President Aleksander Kwasniewski, a telegenic 47-year-old former Communist, who enjoys high ratings, seemed disappointed, though not chagrined, that his popularity did not translate into more votes for his party. He sounded almost enthusiastic about the prospect of cohabitation with a government from the opposite side of the political spectrum, and admonished his own party leaders for running a "nothing" campaign.
The conclusion seemed to be that this was yet more proof of how discerning Polish voters had become since their first heady days of democracy. It was only seven years ago that an unknown Canadian businessman with Polish roots, Stanislaw Tyminski, promised instant wealth to Poles and defeated the well known Polish Catholic intellectual Tadeusz Mazowiecki in the first round of the presidential elections.
Last week's surprise could hardly compare. And as if to show that Poland had become an exceedingly normal country, foreign investment interests, which had generally preferred the former Communists, seemed unfazed by the Solidarity victory. "Who won?" asked an American banking executive in Warsaw after being been locked in meetings the day after the election. The result, he conceded, was unlikely to have an effect on his booming business.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Poland's parliamentiary elections have become an event reminiscent of American democracy. At the Freedom Union headquarters, balloons bloomed near a campaign poster of the party leader, Leszek Balcerowicz (Associated Press). Two nuns, below, marked ballots in Warsaw. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: POLAND (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: POLAND (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); WARSAW, POLAND (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available POLITICS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); LABOR UNIONS (53%); 

PERSON: GEORGE CORLEY WALLACE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1998



569 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: High-Technology Job Fair Is Now an Industry in Itself

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
Allied Signal Aerospace has a chronic need for embedded software developers, people who write the programs that are already installed when someone buys a computer. That is why Christopher A. Lewis, a senior staffing consultant, was at a Tech Expo job fair recently, schmoozing and collecting resumes.
"The competition for these people is so intense, that even if I only hire two of them, it's worth it," he said. 
 The Metropolitan Museum of Art only needed a couple of people to run its data systems. But it took a booth anyway at the most recent fair held by Net Result Technical Job Fairs Inc. "The fair puts our name out as a bona fide employer for high-tech people," said Peggy Saldok, the museum's deputy administrator for human resources.
People in other professions can bemoan corporate cutbacks. But when it comes to people with technological skills, the supply never seems to approach demand.
All of which may cause nightmares for information technology managers. But it is the stuff of the sweetest dreams to one of the latest nascent industries to spin off from the high-technology world: job fairs.
"This business is just exploding," said Richard Johnson, president of Net Result.
It is also getting cutthroat. Some job fair entrepreneurs seem to wait until a competitor has advertised a fair, then schedule theirs a day earlier. And corporate recruiters report that when they participate in one fair, they inevitably are offered a steep discount at competing ones.
The ploy can work. Manpower Technical Services went to a recent Tech Expo fair because "they cut us a very good deal," said Karl Muhlbauer Jr., a recruiter at Manpower.
The concept of a job fair -- a place where job seekers and recruiters meet and greet in a trade-show-like atmosphere -- is nothing new. Universities use them to place graduates. Corporations hold them in collaboration with professional associations of women, minorities or other groups that are underrepresented in the work force. Many newspapers, The New York Times among them, now hold job fairs as a free service for major advertisers.
But none of those fairs are held for profit, and few focus exclusively on technology jobs. Until recently, the for-profit segment of the market also catered primarily to companies looking for sales and office staff.
Not anymore. One by one, longtime job fair companies like the Lendman Group in Virginia Beach, Va., which started holding sales and clerical fairs in 1964, and Tech Expo in New York, whose parent Job Expo International started with sales fairs in 1992, have branched into technology jobs. And myriad newcomers like Net Result have sprung up solely to match programmers, software engineers and such with new homes.
The fairs generally cost less than $30,000 each to hold. Companies pay $2,000 to $4,500 to participate -- less than the cost of a prominent major-market newspaper ad. "We don't find price resistance," said Ernest M. Lendman, chairman of the Lendman Group, which recently raised its rate by $500, to $4,250.
Virtually no one knows how many job fair companies there are. But the ranks are clearly swelling.
"I cannot tell you how much correspondence and mail we get wanting us to attend fairs," said Jennie L. Mays, manager of experienced professional recruiting at I.B.M., which participates in 6 to 10 fairs a month.
Clearly, the fairs meet a need. The New York Times used to get about 70 exhibitors at each of its four annual fairs. More than 100 companies showed up for its fair last Thursday.
For applicants, the fairs provide a way to interact with dozens of potential employers, and a safe way to check what is out there, whether they have the right skills, and if they are being paid enough.
"I haven't been job hunting, but I'm here to see if I should be," said one young jeans-clad man who dropped in on the Tech Expo fair.
The fairs have multiple lures for corporations, too. Good fairs will expose a company to 2,000 technology candidates. They let recruiters measure the salaries they offer against that of the competition. And, they provide leads to clients. "The job fairs let us meet people we might hire, and people who might hire us," Mr. Muhlbauer of Manpower said.
Of course, all that is predicated on a well-attended job fair. One bad showing, and corporate clients move on for good. "I have no use for a fair that pulls 200 people," said Mr. Lewis of Allied Signal, who has whittled down the number of fairs he attends.
Setting up a successful job fair can be like walking a minefield. Pick the wrong space, and applicants will not show up, as Westech Expocorp discovered when its fair at the inconveniently situated Javits Center in Manhattan pulled about a quarter of the traffic that Tech Expo's same-day fair commanded at the centrally situated Sheraton Center.
Advertise in too narrow a venue -- say, newspapers to the exclusion of the Internet or commute-time radio shows -- and the applicant pool will be equally small.
"You need to reach the person who isn't looking to answer an ad," said Fred Faltersack, Westech's president.
But perhaps most important, try to run a high-technology fair in low-technology mode, and failure is assured. Until recently, a job fair company only provided exhibit space, a private area to interview promising candidates, and maybe a free lunch or afternoon snack. It would include each company's name in pre-fair advertising and in employment guides handed out to candidates.
Nowadays, practically every job fair company has its own World Wide Web site, and many have links to large Internet career sites like Career Mosaic. Companies and applicants alike post information about themselves a week or so before the fair. Some job fair companies even hold reduced-fee virtual fairs, in which companies and applicants can interact without coming to the fair.
The job fair companies keep the postings on the net for a couple of weeks after the fair. They also gather resumes at the fairs, and provide them to participating corporations either as hard copies or CD-ROM's.
The technological bells and whistles cost money, and not all of the added costs can be passed on in higher prices. Inevitably, many job fair companies have left the business. Even the survivors are finding their profit margins shaved razor thin. "If three or four companies don't pay, there goes my profit," said Bradford Rand, president of Tech Expo, which expects revenues of nearly $3 million this year, twice last year's number.
Not surprisingly, many of the job fair companies are looking for merger partners to get expansion capital.
"Our revenues are $13 million a year now, but with the right capitalization we could do $100 million," said Mr. Lendman, who is in merger talks with a media company.
Last year, Central Newspapers Inc., which publishes The Indianapolis Star and The Arizona Republic, bought 80 percent of Westech. The new parent's deep pockets let Westech, which is based in Santa Clara, Calif., and had concentrated on the West and Southwest, purchase Target Career Fairs, an East Coast company. The combined company will hold nearly 70 job fairs this year, and bring in close to $32 million.
"It made no sense to add to the East Coast competition when we could hook up with a strong competitor," Mr. Faltersack said.
It was probably a wise decision. Despite the nasty competition, the job fair companies are developing their cadre of loyalists. "We stick to the fairs that are proven draws," Ms. Mays of I.B.M. said. "A $500 discount doesn't make a difference."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Job fairs are the latest growth sector in technology. A job seeker talked with a potential employer earlier this month at a fair in Woburn, Mass. (Ed Quinn for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

CITY: VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: ALLIED-SIGNAL AEROSPACE CO (59%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (57%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (57%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (94%); EMPLOYMENT (93%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (92%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (89%); TRADE SHOWS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); EMBEDDED SYSTEMS (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); ENGINEERING (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (68%); 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H ANN LIVERMORE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1997



570 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: Offerings Of Equity Scheduled This Week

 BODY:
The following equity and convertible debt offerings are expected this week:
American Italian Pasta Co., Excelsior Springs, Mo., an initial public offering of 5.9 million class A shares, 4.7 million in the United States and Canada. Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Co. 
 Bell Canada International Inc., Montreal, an initial public offering of 18 million of shares. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Best Software Inc., Reston, Va., an initial public offering of 3.7 million shares. Hambrecht & Quist.
Budget Group Inc., Daytona Beach, Fla., 4.5 million class. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Cognicase Inc., Montreal, an initial public offering of 2.8 million shares. Volpe, Welty & Co.
Coho Energy Inc., Dallas, 8.6 million shares. Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Co.
Corixa Corp., Seattle, an initial public offering of 2.8 million shares. Lehman Brothers.
Cost Plus Inc., Oakland, Calif., 2.7 million shares. BT Alex. Brown.
Deltapoint Inc., Monterey, Calif., 2.2 million shares. H. J. Meyers & Co.
Diversified Corporate Resources Inc., Dallas, 1.1 million shares. Cruttenden Roth Inc.
Engel General Developers Ltd., Haifa Bay, Israel, an initial public offering of 3 million shares. Friedman, Billings, Ramsey & Co.
Flextronics International Ltd., Bedok Industrial Estate, Singapore, 1.8 million ordinary shares, 1.3 million in the United States and Canada. Montgomery Securities.
Gulf Indonesia Resources Ltd., Jakarta, Indonesia, an initial public offering of 21 million shares, 10.5 million in the United States and Canada. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Heartland Bancshares Inc., Franklin, Ind., 1.1 million shares. Roney & Co.
Ivex Packaging Corp., Lincolnshire, Ill., an initial public offering of 8.4 million shares, 6.7 million shares in the United States and Canada. Merrill Lynch & Co.
Marquee Group Inc., New York, 7.5 million shares. Prudential Securities.
National Research Corp., Lincoln, Neb., an initial public offering of 2.1 million shares. William Blair & Co.
Omega Orthodontics Inc., Acton, Calif., an initial public offering of 1.8 million shares and warrants. National Securities.
Omega Research Inc., Miami, an initial public offering of 3.7 million shares. Robertson, Stephens & Co.
OSI Systems Inc., Hawthorne, Calif., an initial public offering of 3.7 million shares. Robertson, Stephens & Co.
Petersen Companies, Los Angeles, an initial public offering of 6.3 million class A shares, 5 million in the United States and Canada. Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Co.
Recovery Network Inc., Santa Monica, Calif., an initial public offering of 1.9 million units, consisting of 1 common share and 1 redeemable warrant. Whale Securities Co.
RSL Communications Ltd., Hamilton, Bermuda, an initial public offering of 7.2 million shares, 5.8 million in the United States and Canada. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Southern Electronics Corp., Atlanta, 3 million shares. A. G. Edwards & Sons.
SPR Inc., Oak Brook, Ill., an initial public offering of 2.6 million shares. Smith Barney.
Super-Sol Ltd., Petah Tikva, Israel, an initial public offering of 6.5 million American depository shares, each representing 5 ordinary shares, 3.9 million in the United States and Canada. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
UTI Energy Corp., Houston, 5.9 million shares. Prudential Securities.
Willbros Group Inc., Panama City, Panama, 3.9 million shares. SBC Warburg Dillon Read & Co.
Source: MCM Corporatewatch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (95%); MS (NYSE) (95%); BCE (TSX) (72%); BCE (NYSE) (72%); GSK (NYSE) (70%); GSK (LSE) (70%); BIOC (EGX) (70%); AI (NYSE) (68%); FLEX (NASDAQ) (68%); NRCIB (NASDAQ) (65%); NRCIA (NASDAQ) (65%); OSIS (NASDAQ) (63%); SED (NYSE MKT) (60%); SAE (TASE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (95%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (95%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (95%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (95%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (95%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (95%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (95%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (91%); SIC2098 MACARONI, SPAGHETTI, VERMICELLI & NOODLES (91%); SIC5734 COMPUTER & COMPUTER SOFTWARE STORES (72%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (72%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (72%); NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (71%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (71%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (70%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (69%); SIC7361 EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES (69%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (69%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (69%); NAICS334418 PRINTED CIRCUIT ASSEMBLY (ELECTRONIC ASSEMBLY) MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS322211 CORRUGATED & SOLID FIBER BOX MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2679 CONVERTED PAPER & PAPERBOARD PRODUCTS, NEC (66%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (66%); NAICS561910 PACKAGING & LABELING SERVICES (66%); SIC2671 PACKAGING PAPER & PLASTICS FILM, COATED & LAMINATED (66%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (65%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (65%); NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (64%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (64%); NAICS334517 IRRADIATION APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (63%); SIC3826 LABORATORY ANALYTICAL INSTRUMENTS (63%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (62%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (61%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (60%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (60%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (93%); INDONESIA (88%); BERMUDA (72%); ISRAEL (70%); SINGAPORE (55%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); QUEBEC, CANADA (88%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (57%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (56%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (54%); LINCOLN, NE, USA (54%); HAMILTON, BERMUDA (51%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (95%); MORGAN STANLEY (95%); AMERICAN ITALIAN PASTA CO (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (82%); BEST SOFTWARE INC (72%); BCE INC (72%); BUDGET GROUP INC (71%); COGNICASE INC (71%); COHO ENERGY INC (70%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (70%); DIVERSIFIED CORPORATE RESOURCES INC (69%); CRUTTENDEN ROTH INC (69%); ENGEL GENERAL DEVELOPERS LTD (69%); H J MEYERS & CO INC (69%); DELTAPOINT INC (69%); COST PLUS INC (69%); ARLINGTON ASSET INVESTMENT CORP (68%); FLEXTRONICS INTERNATIONAL LTD (68%); GULF INDONESIA RESOURCES LTD (67%); REYNOLDS FOOD PACKAGING LLC (66%); RONEY & CO (66%); HEARTLAND BANCSHARES INC (FRANKLIN INDIANA) (66%); IVEX PACKAGING LLC (66%); WILLIAM BLAIR & CO LLC (65%); NATIONAL RESEARCH CORP (65%); OMEGA RESEARCH INC (64%); ILINC COMMUNICATIONS INC (64%); OSI SYSTEMS INC (63%); PETERSEN COS INC (63%); RECOVERY NETWORK INC (62%); RSL COMMUNICATIONS LTD (61%); SED INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS INC (60%); SPR INC (60%); SHUFERSAL LTD (60%); HAMBRECHT & QUIST CALIFORNIA (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); STEPHENS & CO INSURANCE SERVICES INC (52%); WHALE SECURITIES CO LP (51%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (93%); INDONESIA (88%); BERMUDA (72%); ISRAEL (70%); SINGAPORE (55%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); QUEBEC, CANADA (88%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (57%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (56%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (54%); LINCOLN, NE, USA (54%); HAMILTON, BERMUDA (51%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (93%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); COMMON STOCK (89%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (77%); MARINE MAMMALS (75%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (72%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (71%); SUBSCRIPTION WARRANTS (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1997



571 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Microsoft vs. Netscape: The Border War Heats Up

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Sept. 28

 BODY:
The software war between Microsoft and Netscape escalates this week, as each company moves more aggressively onto the other's technological turf.
The Microsoft Corporation plans to ship to customers the long-delayed fourth version of its Internet Explorer browser software. The program is designed to give users almost seamless integration between the World Wide Web and the desktop display of the personal computer. 
 In fact, so tightly does the new Microsoft software link the Internet to the P.C.'s hard disk that some industry executives and consumer advocates see the program as raising troubling new questions about the vast economic clout wielded by the Redmond, Wash., software giant.
The Netscape Communications Corporation, meanwhile, hopes to blunt the impact of Microsoft's rollout by demonstrating its own Web-to-P.C. integration software on Monday at an industry trade show here. Code-named Aurora, the program is designed as a component of Netscape's Communicator Web-browser software and is intended to offer users a smoother ride between the Internet and files stored on their own P.C.'s.
With Microsoft the dominant provider of P.C. operating system software and Netscape still the leader in Web-browser software, each company is trying to use its own foothold to get a leg up on the competition. Microsoft, in effect, is trying to subsume Internet navigation into the P.C. operating system. Netscape's approach is to try to make operating the P.C. and surfing the Internet virtually synonymous.
Consumer advocates are increasingly concerned about Microsoft's power over ever-broader swaths of the software business. Earlier this month, for example, Ralph Nader met with the three top officials in the Justice Department's antitrust division in an effort to convince them that Microsoft's monopoly over personal computer operating system software is detrimental to the public.
"We think it's an outrage that the Justice Department hasn't taken action to stop Microsoft," said James Love, director of Mr. Nader's lobbying group, the Consumer Project on Technology.
Microsoft's Internet Explorer 4.0 will be distributed by computer makers and Internet service providers and will be accessible free from Microsoft's World Wide Web site beginning on Tuesday. The program is a precursor to the Windows 98 operating system, which Microsoft plans to introduce next year and which is to completely integrate the desktop personal computer and the Internet.
Although Netscape still has a significant lead, controlling 70 to 75 percent of the browser market, Microsoft is intent on shipping tens of millions of copies of its new browser.
The most visually striking aspect of the new software is what Microsoft is calling the Active Desktop, which adds an array of 30 corporate logos to the basic control panel or P.C. "dashboard."
The feature makes it possible to reach many popular Internet locations with a single mouse click. Company logos on the new dashboard include those of the Walt Disney Company, Time Warner, America Online, National Geographic, Pointcast, Intuit and others -- including Corbus, the electronic photograph archive owned by Microsoft's chairman, William Gates.
Such prime placement on the Active Desktop screen, tantamount to an advertisement, is likely to mean that the Web sites of these companies will get even heavier traffic.
Microsoft executives said that the company had not charged money for placement on the Active Desktop and that a user would be able to delete the logos, if desired. But critics are saying that the display screen will nonetheless become an electronic choke point that gives Microsoft and its allies powerful control over which information on the Internet is seen by the most Web travelers.
"The question is, 'Who owns your keyboard and the pixels on your screen?' " said Daniel Nachbar, director of the Public Software Institute, a public-interest group in Amherst, Mass. "Do you or do the producers of information?
Mr. Nachbar said his organization was in the early stages of designing an alternative browser that will have the equivalent of a "mute" button to block out Internet advertisements.
The heated competition between Microsoft and Netscape over the browser market is turning out to be more beneficial to advertisers than to consumers, Mr. Love said.
But Microsoft executives contend that the newest version of its Internet Explorer actually gives users more and easier options for customizing the software to their own needs.
"You can either add or delete things with a single click of the mouse," said Yusuf Mehdi, director of marketing for Microsoft's Internet software division. "We're giving users an unprecedented amount of control over the information on the Web that they've never had before." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (95%); AOL (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (95%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP; NETSCAPE COMMUNICATIONS CORP MICROSOFT CORP (95%); AOL INC (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP; NETSCAPE COMMUNICATIONS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB INTERNET BROWSERS (91%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (76%); CONSUMER LAW (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (72%); COMPUTER MAKERS (72%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (72%); TRADE SHOWS (69%); LOBBYING (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); 

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN RALPH NADER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1997



572 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1464 words

HEADLINE: At F.C.C. Confirmation Hearings, Emphasis Will Be on Competition

BYLINE: By SETH SCHIESEL 

 BODY:
When William E. Kennard, President Clinton's nominee for the chairman's post of the Federal Communications Commission, sits down at his Senate confirmation hearing on Wednesday, the biggest implicit question may not be his fitness for the job but whom he will listen to in Washington once he gets it.
It is close to a foregone conclusion within the capital's telecommunications fraternity that absent a bombshell revelation, Mr. Kennard and the three other people who have been nominated to the F.C.C. will be approved by the Senate Commerce Committee. As is often the case within the Beltway, the essential politicking over the nominations occurred before they were even announced. 
 But Mr. Kennard's hearing on Wednesday, and those tomorrow of the other commission nominees -- Harold Furchtgott-Roth, Michael Powell and Gloria Tristani -- are nonetheless expected to be among the best attended, and most closely watched, confirmation proceedings of the year.
In the wake of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, which was meant to open most parts of the communications industry to competition, the F.C.C. has become perhaps the most prominent regulatory panel in Washington.
But it is the act's failure to create such widespread competition, at least so far, that is expected to have the senators exercised on Wednesday. They will want to know what Mr. Kennard, the F.C.C.'s general counsel, intends to do about it. And some may try to influence his thinking.
"I don't think this hearing will be about whether Bill Kennard has the qualifications," said Scott Blake Harris, a former head of the F.C.C.'s international bureau. "This will be a hearing where the senators share their concerns about the Telecom Act of 1996."
Mr. Kennard declined to be interviewed for this article.
The F.C.C. has regulatory responsibility for a broad swath of the economy. But despite concerns about the growing concentration of ownership of radio and television stations and debates about the responsibilities of broadcasters to provide digital broadcasts and public service programming, many politicians and regulators are more worried by the absence of competition in most local telecommunications markets.
Nearly 18 months after the act was signed into law, the rich competition that the bill's proponents predicted would emerge in local telephone and cable television markets has not developed. Most Americans live in a world where there is one local telephone company and one cable television provider.
Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona and chairman of the Commerce Committee, has been a blunt critic of the law, which he says gave the F.C.C. too much power over the entry of companies into new lines of business. Rather than embrace competition, in Mr. McCain's view, the F.C.C. has impeded it.
"The telecommunications reform act has been over all a failure," he said in a telephone interview last week. "We've got rising cable rates, rising long-distance rates, mergers instead of competition, failure of parts of the telecommunications industry to get into others.
"I'd like to see a much less bureaucratic commission," he added, "a commission that will implement the Telecommunications Act so they don't get their actions stayed in court every time."
As the commission's top lawyer, Mr. Kennard has led a general counsel's office that has won about 85 percent of its cases in Federal appeals court -- an impressive record for an agency that finds almost every decision of consequence drawing an appeal from one disgruntled faction or another. Yet the Kennard record has not spared the commission the derision of some members of Congress for losing a case brought by dozens of states after the F.C.C. invoked the Telecommunications Act in trying to dictate how local phone monopolies should open their networks to competitors.
In July, the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit in St. Louis ruled that states have the right to set essential terms of competition within their borders.
The issue is not going away, however. The decision by the appeals court has not deterred the commission from continuing to pursue the Federal approach to deregulating the telecommunications industry that was charted by Reed E. Hundt, its departing chairman and a close adviser to Vice President Al Gore. One of the chief concerns of the Commerce Committee's Republican majority is how Mr. Kennard, a Democrat, intends to deal with state regulators.
On Friday, Mr. Hundt's F.C.C. overruled regulations in Texas that it described as standing in the way of competiton. The commission rejected regulations that would have prevented large long-distance carriers in Texas like the MCI Communications Corporation from offering local telephone service in areas served by tiny local companies.
The commission also struck down a Texas regulation that would have required large long-distance carriers to build extensive local networks of their own rather than simply reselling a local phone company's service.
Congress "wanted us to guarantee that states truly have a level playing field," Mr. Hundt said. "We have done that."
Friday's actions are almost certain to draw fire from local telephone companies and their supporters in addition to Republican members of the committee, who tend to be sympathetic to the rights of state and local governments.
"The commission is going to have to have some sort of realization that local governments will have a big part to play in their policy," said Senator Conrad Burns, Republican of Montana, who is a member of the committee.
State and local governments, meanwhile, tend to be more sympathetic than the F.C.C. toward the regional Bell companies, which are big local employers and taxpayers.
Representative W. J. Tauzin, the Louisiana Republican who leads the House subcommittee on telecommunications and who wields influence on telecommunications issues in both houses of Congress, is also one of the F.C.C.'s chief critics. "They are setting the bar for Bell entry into long-distance unnecessarily high," Mr. Tauzin said. "There is a reluctance within the F.C.C. itself to get this competition going because it makes them less relevant."
But criticizing the F.C.C. is not only a Republican sport. Sen. Ernest Hollings, Democrat of South Carolina and the ranking minority member of the Commerce Committee, defends the Telecommunications Act as "a good bill" but is also critical of the F.C.C.'s posture. "We've got to break that lawyer approach," he said.
But the commission does have its defenders on Capitol Hill. Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, who is Mr. Tauzin's Democratic counterpart as the ranking minority member of the House telecommunications subcommittee, said the Bell companies, not the F.C.C., were to blame for the slow pace of competition.
"I don't think anyone anticipated the vehement opposition that the regional Bell companies would mount to any meaningful competition in their local marketplace," he said. "We're trying to break down a 100-year-old monopoly in the local loop and it's not going to be surrendered easily."
As F.C.C. chairman, Mr. Hundt has put a low priority on catering to Capitol Hill. But Mr. Kennard, whom Mr. Hundt named the commission's general counsel in 1993, appears to have avoided being tarred by association with his boss, even by some of the commission's harshest critics.
"He is extremely intelligent," Mr. Tauzin said. "It would be wrong to judge him on the basis of his service to Reed Hundt. I'm prepared to encourage his confirmation."
Senator McCain was more circumspect in his praise.
"Would he have been my nominee? No," he said. "I have real questions about his underlying philosophy, but I do not see a reason to disqualify him -- yet."
Mr. Kennard was widely seen as a compromise candidate. Senator Hollings originally supported one of his former aides, Ralph Everett, for the chairman's post, while Vice President Gore had backed Kathleen Wallman, a former head of the commission's Common Carrier Bureau, who is now a White House lawyer.
Mr. Furchtgott-Roth, chief economist for the Commerce Committee, is one of two Republican nominees for the commission and was tapped by Trent Lott, the Senate majority leader, said people on Capitol Hill who insisted on anonymity.
Senator McCain chose the other Republican nominee for the five-member commission, Mr. Powell, the chief of staff of the antitrust division at the Justice Department and a son of Gen. Colin Powell.
Ms. Tristani, a Democratic telephone regulator from New Mexico, is perceived by many in Washington as a representative of the interests of rural states.
The fifth member of the commission is Susan Ness, a Democrat, who is retaining her seat.

GRAPHIC: Photo: William E. Kennard, F.C.C. nominee (Dennis Brack/Black Star)(pg. D1)
 
Chart: "Consolidation in Television and Radio Industries"
A wave of buyouts and acquisitions was prompted by the Telecommunications Act of February 1996, which expanded the number of radio and television stations that a company is allowed to own. Such transactions grew from $1 billion in 1991 to $25.4 billion in 1996, though they have slackened somewhat in 1997. Changes in the membership of the Federal Communications Commission may change the pace of the trend. Chart shows figures for some major group owners that have grown significantly in the 1990's. (Source: Broadcasting & Cable Magazine)(pg. D10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION FCC CO LTD (90%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES ; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); POLITICS (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (87%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (87%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LAWYERS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (64%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (60%); 

PERSON: SCHIESEL, SETH; KENNARD, WILLIAM E; MCCAIN, JOHN (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); FURCHTGOTT-ROTH, HAROLD ; POWELL, MICHAEL; TRISTANI, GLORIA JOHN MCCAIN (78%); MICHAEL I ROTH (78%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1997



573 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1721 words

HEADLINE: Mayday! Mayday! We're Leaking Visuals!;
A Shakeout of the Special Effects Houses

BYLINE: By KRIS GOODFELLOW 

 BODY:
In Hollywood, the place where art and technology intersect with commerce, no one looks twice when a spacecraft flashes across the horizon or a ship is gored by an iceberg. In the contorted reality here, what threatens life is a dearth of spectacular events.
The everyday reality of economics, though, has dealt devastating blows to this community of special effects companies this summer, in spite of record box-office takes. 
 According to The Hollywood Reporter, this year's crop of summer movies took in a record $2.246 billion compared with $2.166 billion last year. But that has not prevented some effects houses that worked on these films from being crippled by financial blows. In several such cases, inexperience and over-reaching led companies to promise far more than they were able to deliver, and to spend more than they could afford trying to meet their obligations.
The resulting tornado of red ink has brought destruction that has touched both the independent visual effects houses and those developed in-house by Hollywood studios.
In June, Warner Digital Studios, which worked on shots for such Warner Brothers movies as "Batman and Robin," announced it was closing less than two years after its birth. A total of 150 jobs were eliminated. Then in August, Digital Domain, known for its work on movies like "Apollo 13," and "Dante's Peak" announced lay offs: 31 people were let go. Capping off the summer implosion, Boss Film Studios, known for its work on "Ghostbusters" and "Air Force One" announced just before Labor Day that it was closing down after 14 years, eliminating 90 jobs.
"It has been a quirky business; in fact it may not be a business at all," said Jim Morris, who is responsible for Industrial Light and Magic and for Skywalker Sound as president of Lucas Digital. "In this day and age, the overhead costs are huge. The investment that you have to make in animators and computer hardware and software has gotten exorbitant."
Perhaps the shakeout was inevitable in a business whose twin progenitors -- the film industry and the computer and software industries -- have been characterized by instability, fickleness and grand visions that sometimes are realized and often are not. And, as in Hollywood and Silicon Valley, the financial storms have left some companies stronger than ever, while others have capsized or are trimming their sails.
Take the case of Digital Domain. In the world of visual effects, Industrial Light and Magic rules the kingdom of live action, but Digital Domain has been the most aggressive pretender to the throne. With pirate flag flying high, Digital Domain has built a reputation for its models and its swagger. But at least in the case of "Titanic," its latest project, Digital Domain has faltered when it came to backing up its braggadocio with the on-time, or on-budget, delivery of its work.
In 1993, Digital Domain was founded by Scott Ross, now chief executive, Stan Winston, and James Cameron, the chairman. No one was much surprised, then, when Digital Domain won the bid to work on more than 100 shots for "Titanic," which Mr. Cameron was directing. The deal, at that time, was rumored to be worth about $25 million, according to several competitors of the company. Digital Domain refuses to comment on "Titanic" until after its release.
What happened next would seem a bit more unusual were this not the ever-uncertain effects business.
Mr. Cameron, in his roles as director, producer and writer, proceeded with the shooting of "Titanic" off the coast of Mexico. The warm air meant the absence of the visible puffs of vapor that would have appeared from the mouths of passengers breathing the Arctic air in the northern Atlantic. Upon his return, Mr. Cameron asked Digital Domain to add the breath to the characters aboard the Titanic in dozens of shots.
This, not being the type of work that wins Academy Awards, was farmed out by Digital Domain to another effects firm. Digital Domain, itself, was by this time too busy working on the grand effects shots that make people say "wow." On these, Digital Domain and Mr. Cameron had opted to show off the firm's digital prowess. Delays inevitably resulted.
In a scene shown at the Electronic Theater at Siggraph, the Los Angeles conference for the Special Interest Group on Computer Graphics, Digital Domain dissected just such a shot. The camera swoops over the bow of the Titanic while dozens of passengers and sailors mill about the deck. Amazingly, all of the people in this scene were created digitally and merged with footage of a giant model ship cutting through digital water.
"The camera moves in a way that would have made it impossible" to produce the shot using real people, Mr. Ross said. Even if they had tried using real people "it would have been a nightmare and it probably wouldn't have worked."
While the breath shots are fairly mundane, the shots with the digital characters may well get award nominations -- at a significant, although not publicized cost in time and money. Competitors in the industry, who have long bid against Digital Domain, believe that the price of the effects rose to about $40 million with changes made along the way. Digital Domain declined to comment on costs.
In the end, "Titanic" set off a painful chain reaction at the effects house. Digital Domain was forced to dole out shots to its rival I.L.M. and others. The movie was delayed from an initial July release until Dec. 19. And with most of the staff at work on "Titanic," the company was unable to assemble bids on fall movie projects. Those few staffers who were not involved with "Titanic" were left idle, and because the company could not afford to keep fallow workers on the payroll, 31 people were laid off.
For its suffering, Digital Domain is said to have lost $4 million, again according to competitors. Digital Domain has confirmed that it will not make any money from its work on the movie.
The only good news is that it looks as though the movie will not sink the effects house. It just announced it will work on a fall release called "Red Corner" with Richard Gere. "Titanic" has all the markings of a hit, and the publicity from it could bring back some of the company's familiar swagger.
The problem with accurate bidding is not unique to Digital Domain. Every effects house faces the challenge of converting an artist's conception into a dollar figure. Still, accurate bidding on what it will cost to complete a project is, as in any business, of paramount importance.
"It is almost impossible to predict what a film is going to cost," said John Hughes, president and chief executive of Rhythm & Hues Studios. "In most cases, it's never been done before."
Special effects houses reside on the ragged edge between what is possible and what is practical. They regularly reach out to push the limits of reality -- and even the limits of fantasy. The only certainty for them is that cash flow is cyclical, at best.
The effects houses, most of which are privately held entities, say their profit margins hover around 5 percent. In the rare good year, an effects studio might make 10 percent. Even I.L.M. has had years where it did not break even.
"The effects industry grew up with owner-operators," Mr. Morris said. "They paid their bills and they broke even because they got to do what they loved."
Richard Edlund, the founder and president of Boss Film Studios, had grown tired of this balancing act. A four-time Academy Award winner for his work on the "Star Wars" movies and "Raiders of the Lost Ark," Mr. Edlund left I.L.M. to start Boss.
Over the years, he has run through the money Boss made, and then some. Mr. Edlund lacked the stomach for another tumultuous round of bidding.
"We were not enough in the black to be comfortable," he said.
In a business where the computers required to do the work can cost hundreds of millions of dollars, a hiatus in the steady flow of cash can result in layoffs or closing. When Boss closed, its $20 million cash flow was on par with previous years.
Boss, though, was hounded by a decision it made in 1993 to purchase 30 Silicon Graphics work stations at a cost of several million dollars. The technological shift had rendered at least $6 million in photo equipment obsolete.
Once this digital transition was made in the effects industry, the imperative became to keep revenue flowing in to finance the debt left over from such major capital spending. With a software-loaded work station costing between $50,000 and $70,000, Boss needed to be busy all year around to make the gamble pay off, a stunt few effects houses manage to pull off.
Mr. Hughes explained: "From January through May, we can't find enough people. Then through the rest of the year we can't find enough work."
Mr. Morris said: "Over the past two years there has been a house of cards constructed. The industry didn't evolve organically. All of the people who have hopped into it recently don't realize that companies are not something that turn on like a light switch."
Warner Digital, a newly created division of Warner Brother. studios, was a newcomer that foundered, unable to complete the effects for movies its own studio released.
"We learned the realities of the business as we went along," said Mark Solomon, head of feature post production and visual effects, who helped assemble and disassemble Warner Digital. In contrast, Sony Imageworks, a division of Sony Pictures Entertainment, has proved itself a survivor, growing from about 100 to 300 people in the last year and seems to be in this rocky business for the long haul.
"Industry-wide, there was a surge of work," said Tim Sarnoff, executive vice president and general manager of Imageworks. "The industry took a deep breath. Then the industry exhaled. It is a business where if you aren't willing to keep on breathing, you close or you will not be ready for the next breath we take."
In spite of the consolidations, effects are a part of every movie today. Even this retrenching is seen as a temporary state of affairs.
"Virtually every film has some form of visual effects," Mr. Solomon said. "Writers are coming up with more creative ideas, which is good. But no longer can we say to a writer, 'That can't be done.' Everything can be done."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "It has been a quirky business; in fact it may not be a business at all." -- JIM MORRIS, Responsible for Industrial Light and Magic and Skywalker Sound as president of Lucas Digital. (Sam Morris for The New York Times)
 
Charts/Photos: "Easier Said Than Done"
The escalating ambitions of filmmakers for increasingly striking special effects can create unexpected headaches -- and costs -- for the special effects houses that must carry out the illusions. Here are examples of what it took for the scripted instructions to be translated into the desired visual effect.
 
'AIR FORCE ONE' SCRIPT:
 
EXTERIOR SKY. The C-130 transport pulls into a steep climb Moments later Air Force One impacts.
 
PRELIMINARY STUDIES -- Boss Film Studios' artists required 10 elaborate oil paintings, like the one above, to work out lighting, textures and motion of the debris.
 
THE FILMING -- Shooting the final scene required 20 takes over the course of two to three months.
 
'MEN IN BLACK' SCRIPT:
 
INTERIOR PAWN SHOP -- NIGHT Kaboom! Kay blows Jeebs' head off.
 
PRELIMINARY STUDIES -- Simple sketches were sufficient to work out the basic sequence, in which the character's head disappears, then reappears.
 
COMPUTER RENDERINGS -- To produce the sequence, Industrial Light and Magic designers created a series of realistic computer sketches.
 
THE FILMING -- The preparatory work helped the final sequence come together. But simulating the entire shirt collar while the head disappears, then reappears, proved unexpectedly difficult.
 
Chart: "Costly Illusions"
Special effects houses can expect certain costs when bidding for a job . . .
 
LABOR
Salaries for animators, digital artists, programmers, visual effects art directors
 
TIME REQUIRED
Based on script, storyboard and conversation with director or producer
 
OVERHEAD
Cost of office space and computer equipment
 
SOFTWARE
Cost of developing new software or licensing special programs developed by companies like Pixar
 
. . . but unexpected difficulties can create cost overruns.
 
'AIR FORCE ONE'
Contracts with two special effects houses using different color standards required expensive touch-ups
 
'TITANIC'
Shots on the decks of the Titanic were filmed in warm weather. But artists at the special effects house, Digital Domain, had to insert visible puffs of breath afterward to simulate cold weather 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DDMG (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (85%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DIGITAL DOMAIN MEDIA GROUP INC (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS LAYOFFS (91%); SPECIAL EFFECTS (91%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (90%); POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (76%); ANIMATION (71%); TICKET SALES (71%); US LABOR DAY (71%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (66%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (61%); 

PERSON: GOODFELLOW, KRIS JAMES T MORRIS (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1997



574 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Britain's Financial Times Seeks to Expand in America

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON 

 BODY:
The Financial Times, the salmon-colored newspaper that is a business staple in Europe, is expanding in the United States in the expectation that its international focus will match America's growing interest in overseas markets.
Within a week after the redesigned American edition appeared, The Wall Street Journal expanded its own international coverage with two new pages in the first section. A spokesman for The Journal pointed out that the paper had announced its own expansion before the "F.T.," as it is often called, released its redesigned American edition on Sept. 9. 
 Although The Financial Times has been printed in the United States since the mid-1980's, its North American circulation has reached only about 40,000. Richard Lambert, the paper's top editor, who moved to New York to oversee the redesign, said the paper had set a goal of 100,000 in North American sales by the turn of the century. At that level, he said, the North American edition would turn profitable for the first time.
The Financial Times is owned by the British media concern Pearson P.L.C. The paper sells on the street for $1.50 in the United States, and its worldwide circulation is about 300,000.
"Economics have triumphed," Mr. Lambert said in explaining the boom in financial journalism, and his own paper's emphasis on international business news. "It's clearer now than it was 10 or 15 years ago that governments cannot buck the markets, that capital flows more or less freely, and there are three or four billion more citizens of the free world today than there were 10 years ago in a global market."
Moreover, he said, the New York Stock Exchange now does a tenth of its daily business in foreign securities, while the amount of American investment in overseas markets is likely to double in the next five years.
"For these reasons, we think there is a small but growing demand in the U.S. for our kind of global financial news," Mr. Lambert said.
Although comparisons with The Wall Street Journal are inevitable, Mr. Lambert said, the two business dailies differ markedly. The Financial Times carries about two pages of United States financial news, while the rest of the paper is strongly international in its coverage. The Wall Street Journal, with a domestic circulation of more than 1.8 million, is still heavily focused on American markets and business leaders.
American readers used to the reliance by the American press on authoritative quotations and figures to support an article's conclusions may be struck by the more personal British reporting style of The Financial Times.
In Friday's paper, for example, Nicholas Timmins reported from London that the scale of state regulation over government and industry alike in Britain had become "awesome" and that "a form of Parkinson's Law" (on the tendency of work to expand) was helping to increase regulation as government shrinks, all without supplying a single excerpt from the academic study that was the basis for the article.
Reporters for The Financial Times also offer interpretation and advice in the Lex Column, a back-page collection of short analytical takes on the day's business news that, Mr. Lambert said, has become a staple among readers in Britain.
The newspaper also has arts guides and criticism, and large doses of statistical summaries from around the world, with particular attention to emerging markets.
"If you want to know what has happened around the world, you can look in here and see that the Sri Lankan market has -- let's see -- drifted lower," Mr. Lambert said.
Nothing better illustrated the unsleeping nature of business news for the editor of The Financial Times than the path of its exclusive article on Thursday from London, reporting that the Labor Party Cabinet had shifted in favor of speeding up Britain's entry into the European Monetary Union.
The article ran first in the Tokyo edition of The Financial Times, which is printed half a day ahead of the London edition. In Tokyo, it was picked up by the Dow Jones news agency -- part of same company that owns The Wall Street Journal -- which in turn produced a paragraph, crediting The Financial Times, in an article that appeared in the business section of The New York Times on Friday.
"Isn't that funny?" Mr. Lambert said. "It kind of shows you how global the business world has got."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard Lambert, editor of The Financial Times, in New York. (Jack Manning/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PSON (LSE) (68%); PSO (NYSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (97%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (97%); NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (68%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); EUROPE (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (75%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES (NEWSPAPER); WALL STREET JOURNAL; PEARSON PLC FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (97%); PEARSON PLC (68%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL TIMES (NEWSPAPER); WALL STREET JOURNAL; PEARSON PLC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); EUROPE (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (75%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPERS FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); JOURNALISM (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (65%); STOCK EXCHANGES (63%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (50%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER; LAMBERT, RICHARD

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1997



575 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Patents;
Some new products and approaches for making lice insecta non grata on children's heads.

BYLINE: By Teresa Riordan 

 BODY:
HEAD lice are the unspoken scourge of the school-age set. The tiny critters indiscriminately infest families of all socio-economic backgrounds and would just as soon take up residence in clean hair as in dirty hair. Worst of all, as many parents can testify, they are a resilient species and can keep reappearing despite repeated washings with lice shampoos.
This is because such shampoos, with a mild whose main ingredient is a mild pesticide, attack the nervous system of the mature insects. Nits, or lice embryos, are often unaffected because their nervous system does not begin developing until the third day. Moreover, young lice, called nymphs, molt several times before maturing and can shed the shampoo toxins along with their outer shell. 
 Thus, the National Pediculosis Association advises that the only effective way to get rid of lice is to remove nits by hand. That is easier said than done. But not to fear: a number of patents have been issued recently to simplify this tedious process.
Nits are tiny, rice-shaped, whitish pods that the mother louse cements with a special mucous to a hair shaft near the scalp. Because they are essentially glued to the hair, they do not come off easily. Removing them requires great care and skill: if the nit sac breaks it may spill undetected embryos back onto the scalp.
"The typical head is almost a square-foot of territory," said Harry Upton, founder and president of Care Technologies in Darien, Conn. "You're talking about looking through the scalp in one-inch segments. It can take a long time to do a thorough job."
Mr. Upton has patented an enzymatic hair gel that loosens the nit's grip on the hair shaft. "It doesn't kill them, but it breaks the bond and makes them easier to remove," he said.
The gel is applied to wet hair after it has been treated with a shampoo that kills adult lice. Unlike the shampoos, however, it has no risk of toxicity, according to Mr. Upton. "It's as safe as soap and water," he said.
Care Technologies -- whose Web site at http://www.clearcare.com features enlarged photographs of lice and nits -- has a product on the market called Clear Lice Egg Remover. Mr. Upton received patent 5,547,665.
 
A Way to Know If a Nit Is Dead
Miriam Sheftel, a homemaker in Newton Centre, Mass., thought she was through with dealing with lice once her three children were grown. But then her eldest child, Rachel, became a schoolteacher. "She started getting it from her students," said Ms. Sheftel, who has recently patented a lice product that she jokingly refers to as Rachel's Revenge.
Ms. Sheftel has come up with a way to tell whether a nit is alive or dead once the head has been washed with a lice shampoo. The nit is dropped into a vial containing a yellowish chemical solution. If the nit turns blue it is dead. If it does not, it is alive.
Ms. Sheftel points out that a school nurse will normally send a child home if a nit has been discovered. "This way, the nurse could just drop the nit into the vial," she said. "And if it turned out to be dead, the parents would be saved a trip back to school to pick the child up."
Ms. Sheftel and David Kagan, of Lakewood, N.J., who helped work out the technical aspects, received patent 5,658,750. Ms. Sheftel said she was hoping to license the patent.
 
Fine-Toothed Comb (With Rotisserie)
Fine-toothed lice combs, designed to pull out nits, have been around for centuries. But Arthur Leman of North Attleboro, Mass., has patented an improvement on the lice comb. It's a lice comb with a large magnifying glass attached. "They're pretty small creatures," Mr. Leman said. "This makes it easier to see them."
Mr. Leman, who received design patent D365,662, sells the lice combs through his company, Health Enterprises.
Other novel lice combs have been invented over the years, including one that worked by electrocuting lice. One problem with this comb, however, was that the nits were unaffected by the electrical current. Now a pair of French inventors, Jean-Pierre Debourg and Daniel Bontoux, have come up with a thermal comb that appears to cook the creatures to death at every stage of their life cycle.
The teeth of the comb, which are heated to more than 165 degrees Fahrenheit, are bracketed by what the patent refers to as "heels." These extensions, which do not conduct heat, are slightly longer than the comb's hot teeth and keep the teeth from coming in direct contact with the scalp and thus, the patent notes, "permit avoidance of burning sensations on the part of the user of the device."
Mr. Debourg and Mr. Bontoux received patent 5,628,332, which was assigned to SEB S.A. of Selongey, France.
Patents are available by number for $3 from the Patent and Trademark Office, Washington, D.C. 20231. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: INVENTIONS AND PATENTS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (92%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); HAIR CARE PRODUCTS (90%); PATENTS (89%); NEW PRODUCTS (79%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PARENTS (77%); BONDS (75%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (71%); PESTICIDES (71%); 

PERSON: RIORDAN, TERESA; UPTON, HARRY; SHEFTEL, MIRIAM; KAGAN, DAVID; LEMAN, ARTHUR; DEBOURG, JEAN-PIERRE; BONTOUX, DANIEL MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1997



576 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: The Talk in the Town Where Whitman Announced: Less Than Solid Support

BYLINE: By JENNIFER PRESTON 

DATELINE: ROSELLE PARK, N.J., Sept. 26

 BODY:
When Gov. Christine Todd Whitman announced her bid for re-election in the spring, she chose this small, middle-class town with a Republican mayor whose voters supported her over Jim Florio four years ago.
But her support among the residents and merchants along Chestnut Street may not be as solid as Mrs. Whitman would hope, with the Nov. 4 election about five weeks away. 
 In dozens of interviews, as many people said they were voting for the Democratic challenger, State Senator James E. McGreevey -- or at least listening to what he had to say -- as said they would vote to give Mrs. Whitman a second term.
"All I know is that my taxes have gone up," Cindy Venturo, 39, said as she waited outside the Robert Gordon Elementary school to pick up her 8-year-old son. But Ms. Venturo went on to say that was not enough to persuade her to vote against her.
"There are a lot of good things she has done, with 'Megan's Law' and trying to protect crime victims," Ms. Venturo said of the law requiring prosecutors to notify communities when some sex offenders are living in their neighborhoods. Ms. Venturo, who handles the bookkeeping at a building supply company, added: "Auto insurance is a problem. But it is going to be hard to fix, no matter who is in office."
Laura Capko, 35, also waiting to pick up her son, said she had already decided that she would not vote for the Governor in November even though she did support her in 1993.
"She is taking away state educational funds from the small towns and that makes our local taxes go up," she said. "My property taxes are $4,600 a year. My car insurance is $4,000. She doesn't seem to get it."
Ms. Capko was one of the people who attended the Governor's campaign announcement in April. But, she said, she went because her son was among the invited schoolchildren. She said that she had listened when Mrs. Whitman cited her tax cuts and the state's booming economy, but that she had come to believe that neither had made a positive difference in her life.
In recent voter surveys, including a New York Times/CBS News poll, voters across the state shared many of the same concerns as the residents here. Polls show that automobile insurance, education and property taxes are the issues they want addressed and that many are unhappy with the way Mrs. Whitman has handled them. The discontent among voters like Ms. Capko is what Mr. McGreevey says he is seeking to tap.
Many of the residents here said they were working harder than ever but were not making enough progress. Some said that even though they did not yet know much about Mr. McGreevey, who is also the Mayor of Woodbridge Township, they thought he understood their plight better.
"I don't know what he'll do for the state, but it seems as if he is more of a working-class kind of person," said Ann Mikos, 58, who described herself as an independent voter.
"My daughter and son-in-law are both living with us so they can save and buy a house," Ms. Mikos said. "She is saving and saving and saving, but just not getting ahead."
But Mrs. Whitman had her supporters, too. Maeve Farley, 63, who was pushing a stroller with her grandson, said she was firmly committed to Mrs. Whitman because of a state program that subsidizes health insurance premiums. "When I lost my husband, I lost our health insurance. The program has helped me out tremendously," she said.
Just off Exit 137 of the Garden State Parkway, Roselle Park has a population of about 12,800 most of whom make their living primarily in retail trade, manufacturing, construction, finance, insurance and real estate.
Although there are slightly more registered Democrats than Republicans here, more than half the voters are either registered as independents or are unaffiliated. The voters here typify the swing voters crucial to both candidates.
According to Mayor Joseph Picaro, a Republican who was elected in 1995 and supports Governor Whitman enthusiastically, the borough's voters tend to lean toward Republican candidates in statewide and Presidential contests, but swing back and forth between the two parties in local elections.
He said he thought that she would win in Roselle Park in November.
Along Chestnut Street, dominated by small business, the Governor gets mixed reviews.
Tony Catucci, 38, who owns the Chestnut Street Supermarket, said he was unlikely to support the Governor. "She has not helped small business," he said. "Property taxes are very high. Business has been on the slow side." At Vito's Hair Styling across the street, Vito Saggese, 62, said he thought Mrs. Whitman was doing a fairly good job. "She has my vote," he said.
Several people said they were supporting Mr. McGreevey because they or their family members belonged to a union.
"She is not too bad," Ed Smith, 68, a retired steamfitter who raised his seven children in Roselle Park, said about Mrs. Whitman. "But she is anti-organized labor, and I have been a labor person all my life."
Carol Cascio, 46, the owner of the Hair Garden, said she would like to see Mrs. Whitman do more to lower property taxes and car insurance. But she said she would vote for her because she saw her as a role model for women. "I think that she is a strong, capable woman, and I like that," Ms. Cascio said. "We've lost Mother Teresa and Princess Diana. We can't lose another strong, capable woman."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; ROSELLE PARK (NJ); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE AND LIABILITY; TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (88%); POLLS & SURVEYS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TAX LAW (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); CHILDREN (68%); SEX OFFENSES (66%); BUILDING SUPPLY (51%); 

PERSON: PRESTON, JENNIFER; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (SEN) MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1997



577 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Excuse Me, Mohamad

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
Malaysia's Prime Minister, Mahathir Mohamad, used the latest World Bank meeting in Hong Kong to denounce the evils of globalization, after Malaysia's stocks and currency were ravaged by global traders. Mr. Mahathir blasted "morons" like George Soros, who speculate in currencies, and he criticized the "great powers," accusing them of forcing Asians to open their domestic markets to global traders and then manipulating their currencies to destroy them as competitors. U.S. Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin listened diplomatically to this outburst. But here's what I suspect Mr. Rubin would have liked to have said to Mr. Mahathir:
Excuse me, Mohamad, but what planet are you living on? You talk about participating in globalization as if it were a choice you had. Globalization isn't a choice. It's a reality. There is just one global market today, and the only way you can grow is by tapping the global stock and bond markets for investment and selling into the global trading system what your factories produce. And the most fundamental truth about globalization is this: No one is in charge, you moron! Global markets are just like the Internet -- every day these markets become more widespread, everyday they weave us more tightly together and no one is in charge -- not George Soros, not "great powers," and not I. I didn't start it, I can't stop it and neither can you. 
You keep looking for someone to complain to, someone to take the heat off your markets. Well guess what, Mohamad, there's no one on the other end of the phone! The global market today is an electronic herd of anonymous stock, bond and currency traders, sitting behind computer screens. The members of this herd live everywhere there is a trading floor, everywhere there is a Bloomberg machine, everywhere that someone with a computer screen and modem can buy and sell Malaysian ringgits, stocks and bonds. (And don't play dumb with me, Mohamad. We both know your Government lost $3 billion speculating on the British pound in the early 1990's.)
The electronic herd cuts no one any slack. It does not recognize anyone's unique circumstances. The herd only recognizes its own rules. But the rules of the herd are pretty consistent -- they stipulate what savings rate your country should have, what level of interest rates, what defict-to-G.D.P. ratio, and what level of current account deficit. The herd feeds in 180 countries, so it doesn't have time to look at you in detail. It makes snap judgments about whether you are living by its rules, and it rewards those countries that are transparent about what they are doing. The herd hates surprises.
For years Malaysia lived by these rules and you attracted massive amounts of foreign investment, which enabled you to raise your per capita income from $350 to $5,000 in four decades. But when you started to break the rules by overspending, the herd sold you out. It stampeded you and left you as electronic road kill. The K.L.C.I. Index, your Dow Jones, fell 48 percent this year and your currency hit a 26-year low. But when that happens you don't ask the herd for mercy, you don't denounce the herd, you just get up, dust yourself off and get back with the flow of the herd.
Sure, this is unfair. In some ways the herd lured you into this problem: It kept offering you all this cheap money and you took it and then overbuilt your dams, your factory capacity and your office towers. But that's what's really scary: The herd is not infallible. It makes mistakes, too. But if your fundamentals are basically sound, the herd will eventually recognize that and come back. The herd is never stupid for long. In the end, it always responds to good governance. Hey, we had similar fluctuations when we were an emerging market, with our railroad busts and booms. You just have to manage them and build in as many shock absorbers as possible.
I know you think that I'm the all-powerful U.S. Treasury Secretary, but Mohamad, I live just like you -- in terror of the herd. I track its movements all day on the Bloomberg machine next to my desk. Those idiots at Time and Newsweek keep puttin' me on the cover, as if I'm actually in charge, and I'm sittin' here terrified that if Congress refuses to grant the President "fast track" authority to expand free trade, the herd is going to turn against me and trample the dollar and the Dow.
And let me tell you a little secret Mohamad: I don't even keep a phone on my desk anymore, because I know better than anyone -- there's nobody to call.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (74%); 

COUNTRY: MALAYSIA (96%); HONG KONG (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD BANK (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MALAYSIA; MALAYSIA (96%); HONG KONG (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CURRENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); BOND MARKETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); BONDS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BRITISH POUND (72%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (72%); TRENDS (68%); MODEMS (66%); INTEREST RATES (60%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; MAHATHIR MOHAMAD (PRIME MIN) THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (58%); GEORGE SOROS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1997



578 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 3077 words

HEADLINE: TAINTED IMPORTS -- A special report.;
Imports Swamp U.S. Food-Safety Efforts

BYLINE: By JEFF GERTH and TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 28

 BODY:
Since the 1980's, food imports to the United States have doubled. But Federal inspections of those imports by the Food and Drug Administration have dropped to less than half what they were five years ago.
Now, public-health scientists say they are seeing more and more outbreaks of disease linked to imported food, particularly fresh fruit and vegetables. 
 These are known to have sickened thousands of Americans, and those reported cases are a small fraction of the actual number of people made ill, according to scientists at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta.
The scientists' list of outbreaks in the 1990's implicates imported foods -- including raspberries from Guatemala and carrots from Peru; strawberries, scallions and cantaloupes from Mexico; coconut milk from Thailand; canned mushrooms from China; an Israeli snack food, and a multinational batch of alfalfa sprouts -- in a variety of infectious diseases.
The increase in imports has strained the nation's food-safety system, said Dr. David A. Kessler, the Food and Drug Administration commissioner from 1990 through February 1997. "We built a system back 100 years ago that served us very well for a world within our borders," he said in an interview. "We didn't build a system for the global marketplace."
Most of the food imported to the United States is wholesome. Consumers, knowing that fresh produce is good for their health, can now buy reasonably priced fruits and vegetables imported from around the world, regardless of the season, and without ill effect.
But the illnesses that have been imported along with some of the produce are an unintended byproduct of the boom in international trade -- a boom long advocated by the Reagan, Bush and Clinton Administrations as crucial to economic growth.
There is "a tension between the two goals of safety and trade," said Mickey Kantor, President Clinton's first trade representative, who helped push global trade to the top of Mr. Clinton's agenda. "You want to open markets but not lower standards. And that's easy to say, but very, very difficult to carry out."
Scientists are recognizing that "free trade may present problems that are associated with food poisoning," said Dr. Marguerite A. Neill, an infectious disease specialist and a member of a Federal advisory panel drafting new food-safety standards. These problems cut both ways: radish sprouts from Oregon seeds sickened people in Japan in March, and South Korea said it detected E. coli bacteria in a shipment of frozen United States beef last week.
The problems imports may pose for American consumers include polluted water used to grow food in third-world nations, faulty safety systems in countries where the foods are produced, and a lack of natural immunity to exotic microbes rarely seen in this country. "Certain viruses, bacteria and parasites may be posing a unique problem in the U.S. because we haven't tended to be exposed to them," Dr. Neill said.
Dr. Yasmine Motarjemi, a World Health Organization food-safety scientist, said the organization also believed that global trade "brings new pathogens into countries which are not immune."
Those problems were foreseeable -- and foreseen.
In 1994, a Centers for Disease Control report said, "As trade and economic developments like Nafta take place, the globalization of food supplies is likely to have an increasing impact on food-borne illnesses."
In 1993, the Food and Drug Administration, in a memorandum citing "enormous inefficiencies in the current food-protection system" and the "ever-increasing challenges" posed by rapidly growing imports, asked the Clinton Administration for legislation giving it power to bar all food -- including fruits, grains, vegetables and fish -- imported from any country with an inferior food-safety system.
The Department of Agriculture has such authority over imported meat and poultry. But the F.D.A. never acquired that power though legislation or executive order.
Dr. Kessler said in an interview that he had told the Bush and Clinton Administrations that the safety system for imported food was inadequate and outdated.
"How is it physically possible to insure the safety of imported food?" he said. "You don't have police power throughout the world. Inspecting at the border has a limited value. You're left with real risks."
Now these risks figure in the political debate about free trade.
The Clinton Administration wants the power to sign new free-trade pacts without Congress's changing the language of those agreements. Opponents of this "fast track" authority raise the food-safety flag. Some food growers say that the risks from imports are insignificant, and that the C.D.C. exaggerates them.
The C.D.C. says diseases borne by domestic and foreign foods kill thousands of Americans and sicken millions, perhaps tens of millions, every year -- mostly the very young, the very old and the very ill. Its scientists say almost none of those cases are ever traced back to their cause. As a result, they say, they lack the data to show how many people get sick from imported food, and whether that food is safer or less safe than domestic food.
Both sides in the fast track debate use the Centers for Disease Control's data to make their cases -- and both sides mischaracterize what the data show, according to the scientists.
Now the Administration is preparing a proposal to address the problems posed by imported food -- nine months after announcing a sweeping food-safety initiative that largely ignored them, and days after a bill to revamp the Food and Drug Administration was passed by the Senate.
 
The Food Chain
Modern-Day Travels Of Tainted Products
The United States has its own food-safety problems at home. Urgent questions about the integrity of America's food supply were raised when three American children died and 144 people were hospitalized after eating fast-food hamburgers in 1993. A reminder of the problem came this summer, when tainted hamburger meat from a Nebraska plant made 16 people sick.
But this spring and last, in an outbreak that attracted less attention, tainted raspberries from Guatemala made thousands of Americans sick. They were victims of a nearly invisible, dimly understood parasite called cyclospora, a species almost never seen in the United States before 1996.
To know the story of raspberries and cyclospora, Dr. Michael T. Osterholm, one of the nation's leading epidemiologists, wrote recently, "is to know food-borne disease in the modern world."
Not a single raspberry grew in Guatemala a decade ago. They grow today because the United States helped introduce them.
In the 1980's, during the height of the Guatemalan Army's campaign against leftist guerrillas, the United States Agency for International Development tried to win over the peasants by introducing them to the riches of global trade. Spurred by the Reagan Administration's Caribbean Basin Initiative, a 1983 free-trade measure that cut or eliminated tariffs on imports, the agency spent tens of millions of dollars promoting "nontraditional" agriculture in Guatemala.
It persuaded rural Guatemalans to switch from planting corn and beans for themselves to growing exotic crops for North Americans. It financed Guatemalan exporters and American importers who bring raspberries and other produce to the United States.
The raspberry trade exploded two years ago. Guatemala shipped less than 4,000 pounds of raspberries to the United States in 1992 -- and about 700,000 pounds in 1996. The growers timed their first harvest of 1996 for late April and early May, when they would have the United States market almost completely to themselves.
But every April and May, when the spring rains come to the highlands, thousands of Guatemalans fall ill. They think something in the water flowing from the mountains makes them sick. And when the raspberries came to the United States in spring 1996, thousands of Americans fell ill as well. Many experienced weeks of misery -- debilitating diarrhea, severe cramps, chills, fever, nausea, weight loss, depression.
The Centers for Disease Control's scientists never found cyclospora on the raspberries, but they found it in the stools of the Americans who ate them. And they are fairly certain that the parasite lay hiding in the water in Guatemala -- the water with which the berries were sprayed and irrigated just before they were picked, shipped and eaten fresh and raw days later in the United States.
The case underscores the C.D.C.'s recent warning that "improving the microbiological safety of drinking water and food production" overseas is crucial "to insure the safety of the increasing amounts of food imported to the United States."
After that experience, American scientists and Guatemalan growers, working together, did everything they could to prevent another outbreak. But when this spring came, it happened again: Hundreds, perhaps thousands, of Americans who ate Guatemalan raspberries fell sick.
The cyclospora case is now the biggest outbreak of food-borne disease in the United States in years. The Centers for Disease Control count at least 2,300 people sickened this year and last. They are "the tip of the iceberg, and we don't know how big the iceberg is," said Dr. Barbara Herwaldt of the C.D.C. The Centers for Disease Control still know little about the parasite. But they established this spring that cyclospora is a common cause of diarrhea in Guatemalan children, and is still present in the water that runs through the highlands. The C.D.C. has shown that a polluted stream in a third world field can spawn a mysterious bug that can sicken a diner in midtown Manhattan.
"We eat out of everybody else's garden now," said Dr. Dan Colley, director of the Centers for Disease Control's division of parasitic diseases. And on an increasingly crowded planet, not everyone's garden is well kept.
When cyclospora struck in the United States again this spring, Guatemalan berry growers acted swiftly. First, they voluntarily suspended their shipments. Then they kicked the C.D.C.'s field investigator off their farms. Then they denounced the American scientists as snipers fighting a trade war on behalf of the growers' California competitors.
Roberto Castenada, vice president of the Guatemalan Berries Commission, said in an interview: "Last year the guerrillas were in the fields asking my workers about their conditions, asking, 'Do you have bathrooms?' And this year, it was the C.D.C. The C.D.C. is killing us. They kill us every time they open their mouths."
Gabriel Biguria, a former president of Gexpront, the Guatemalan agricultural export group, said his country was the victim of an unfair trade practice.
"Cyclospora?" he said. "They can't find it. We find a tremendous possibility that people in California are using this as a very dangerous tool for protectionism. Protectionist forces find bugs or whatever to protect their market. It's a commercial war."
This dispute illustrates how science and politics collide in the arena of trade.
Some of the biggest food-trade fights have centered on the safety of American products. European nations did not want hormone-injected beef or chlorine-rinsed chicken. So far, the United States has won those cases. But now the United States sometimes finds itself on the other side of the fence, fighting with trading partners about the safety standards for their imports.
"Where we see a safety issue, they see a trade issue," said Dr. I. Kaye Wachsmuth, a leading Federal food-safety official.
 
The Inspectors
Import-Ban Power For the F.D.A.
Things were simpler when most of the food Americans ate was grown near their homes. Traditionally, food illness came from under-cooked or mishandled domestic meat and poultry. Today, people depend more on global trade to satisfy their hunger.
"Go to a restaurant and take a look at your supper," said Dr. Robert Tauxe, chief of the food-borne and diarrheal disease branch at the Centers for Disease Control. "How many different continents are on your plate?"
The food chain that fills those plates has become unimaginably intricate.
For example, alfalfa sprouts gave salmonella to hundreds of people in 24 states this year and last. The seeds for those sprouts were bought from Uganda and Pakistan, among other nations, shipped through the Netherlands, flown into New York and trucked around the United States, Dr. Tauxe said.
Previously unknown pathogens are being discovered years after they arrive in the United States. Take the case of the Peruvian carrots, which took years to break.
In a coming issue of the Journal of Infectious Diseases, Dr. Osterholm and his colleagues will report their discovery of a new strain of E. coli bacteria, linked to a shipment of carrots from Peru. It took them six years to connect the new strain to a 1991 outbreak at a Minneapolis convention.
Most of the data on food-borne disease come from a relatively small number of outbreaks at big gatherings -- conventions, restaurants and receptions. Most cases are never reported at all, said Dr. Osterholm, Minnesota's chief epidemiologist.
"If you get an outbreak of 500 people in a state, but no more than a few in any one household, you'll never pick it up," he said.
Because one percent or less of the actual number of outbreaks are reported, analyzed, identified and successfully traced back to the source, the C.D.C. says, its scientists cannot identify the causes of a great majority of food-borne diseases.
International food-borne outbreaks, said Dr. Colley of the Centers for Disease Control, are increasing and "can be expected to worsen as the world moves toward a global food economy."
Detecting microbes at the border is about as effective as detecting illegal drugs.
The Food and Drug Administration's inspectors test an ever-dwindling fraction of the 30 billion tons of food now imported into the United States. The responsibilities of individual inspectors have increased, but their resources have dwindled. They sampled 17,000 food items in 1996, less than one percent of 2.2 million food shipments, down from 30,000 samples, or about 3 percent of 1.1 million shipments, in 1992.
A more fundamental defense -- insuring the safety of food at its source -- does not exist. The F.D.A.'s inspectors can seize suspect imports, but they lack the power to automatically bar imported food just because it comes from a country with an inferior food-safety system.
Congress has never granted them that power. The White House has never publicly asked for it -- until now, as it seeks fast track authority for trade pacts that is being seriously challenged in Congress over food-safety issues. The Administration plans to announce a proposal seeking to give the Food and Drug Administration the new powers this week.
The need has been apparent for years, Federal food-safety officials said. They cited the case of the tainted coconut milk from Thailand. In 1991, frozen coconut milk processed at a Bangkok plant, and exported by a Thai trading company to the United States, set off an outbreak of cholera. The life-threatening disease was thought to have been eradicated in this country.
"The Thai authorities were unaware of the existence of the plant," Dr. Tauxe said. "It was unlicensed, uninspected, unregulated."
Nor is it clear that the new powers the White House is planning to seek would have prevented the outbreak.
"I can't imagine an F.D.A. inspector in every country overseas," said Peggy Foegeding, a principal author of a landmark 1994 study on food-borne pathogens.
The United States is second to none at stopping food-borne disease after it breaks out. The Clinton Administration says it will lift up public-health and food-safety standards around the world until they meet those of the United States, in order to insure the safety of imported food.
But the United States' public-health systems today "cannot properly identify, track and control food-related illness, or prevent, to the extent possible, future cases from occurring," said a Federal report published in May as part of a food-safety initiative now nearing passage in Congress.
 
The Safety Net
Eroding Resources For Surveillance
Some Federal agencies are helping their foreign counterparts improve their public health systems. But "the United States cannot really build public health structures for the world," said Kerri-Ann Jones, a top White House science official.
The Clinton Administration says it wants more surveillance, more research, more F.D.A. inspectors. But "Federal budget constraints will likely prohibit significant funding increases in the future" for the F.D.A., said the food-safety initiative report published in May.
Many state health departments are overburdened and underfinanced, in part because of the AIDS crisis. Twelve states have no system for reporting food-borne disease, largely because of budget restrictions, public health officials say.
And many countries are reducing their own disease-surveillance abilities. "Economic globalization has also increased the need for governmental budget austerity," and countries around the world are cutting spending on public health to streamline their economies, according to a coming study by World Health Organization officials.
Scientists have fought new diseases spread by trade, travel and technology before. One night in 1849, a British doctor, John Snow, had a brainstorm. Having realized that cholera was spread by contaminated water, he ripped the handle off a water pump in a London slum and stopped an epidemic.
Global trade, the gigantic pump bringing the essentials and luxuries of life, and the small but rising threat of disease pose more intricate challenges for scientists.
Dr. Kessler and other prominent scientists, while acknowledging the problems with domestic food, said those challenges could be summarized by two questions:
As the world's nations become more intertwined, interdependent and intensely competitive, will the rest of the world's standards become more like those of the United States, with its relatively safe water, sound hygiene and state-of-the-art science? Or will the United States, despite its high standards, become more vulnerable to the rest of the world's microbes?
"The challenge for the United States," Dr. Kessler said, "is to raise everyone else's standards."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A parasite rarely seen in this country has been traced to raspberries from Guatemalan farms like the one where this woman works. (Nancy McGuirr for The New York Times)(pg. A1); TAINTED FRUIT -- Raspberries from Guatemala have made thousands of Americans ill. Mayan women weeded a raspberry field recently. (Nancy McGuirr for The New York Times)(pg. A10)
 
Graphs: "More Foreign Produce At Local Markets"
The amount of fruits land vegetables imported to the United States has risen in recent years, although tests of imported foods by the F.D.A. have been cut nearly in half. Graph shows examples of rising imports, tracking import figures for a wide variety of fruits and vegetables, from 1990 through 1997. (Source: Agriculture Department)(pg. A10)
 
"BY THE NUMBERS: More Imports, Fewer Tests"
Food imports into the United States have risen while the F.D.A. has reduced the number of imports it examines. Graph tracks dollar amount of agricultural imports (from 1993 through an estimated 1997) and number of imported food and food-related items tested by the F.D.A. (from 1992 through 1996). (Source: Agriculture Department)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); GUATEMALA (93%); THAILAND (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: ;FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); GUATEMALA (93%); THAILAND (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; FOOD CONTAMINATION AND POISONING; SANITATION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; VEGETABLES; FRUIT; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; FOOD; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES ; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (90%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); FOOD SAFETY (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (89%); PRODUCT SAFETY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); E COLI (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (77%); BACTERIA (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (74%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); COLIFORM BACTERIA (63%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (61%); WATER POLLUTION (60%); DISEASE REPORTING (57%); 

PERSON: GERTH, JEFF; WEINER, TIM BILL CLINTON (86%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1997



579 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1453 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST LEADERS TAKING FIRST STEP TO REVIVING TALKS

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Sept. 28

 BODY:
Israeli and Palestinian leaders said today that they expected their meeting with Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright in New York on Monday would lead to the revival of long-stalled committee talks on such issues as the release of Palestinian prisoners and an airport in Gaza.
But both Israelis and Palestinians have cautioned against expecting that the new contacts would lead to a resumption of substantive talks on advancing the peace.
The meeting scheduled for Monday was preceded by several conciliatory gestures from both sides. Today, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told his Cabinet that he had spotted the "first, preliminary steps" by the Palestinian Authority to crack down on Islamic terror groups, which the Prime Minister has set as the condition for continuing the diplomatic process. 
 Mr. Netanyahu, who predicted that the Monday meeting would lead to the resumption of committee talks, also announced that he was releasing $17 million more of the tax money his Government has withheld from the Palestinians since a suicide bombing in July, and that he would allow 8,000 more Palestinian workers back into Israel, bringing the total to 29,000. He had released $47 million of the tax money in two earlier actions, and about $17 million remains unpaid.
The seizure of the funds and the limits on Palestinians allowed to work in Israel had led to serious economic dislocation in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank, and Ms. Albright had specifically criticized the financial punishment during her recent visit as counterproductive.
On the Palestinian side, Yasir Arafat and his Palestinian Authority have stepped up their offensive against militant Islamic organizations, arresting dozens of Hamas leaders in the West Bank and Gaza and closing 16 Hamas welfare organizations in Gaza that, officials said, gave support to Hamas's Qassam military wing, which was responsible for terror attacks.
Ahmed Tibi, an aide to Mr. Arafat, told The Associated Press today that he too expected the meeting in New York to lead to renewed talks.
But all sides cautioned against over-optimism as gloom continued to deepen in the Middle East. In the last week, the Israeli Army was reported to be training for war with the Palestinians, Hamas threatened more attacks, Mr. Netanyahu promised more settlements, and the departing American Ambassador, Martin S. Indyk, sadly acknowledged that "the dream of peace, on some days recently, seems to be turning into a nightmare."
Ms. Albright's meeting in New York with Foreign Minister David Levy and the Palestine Liberation Organization's negotiator, Abu Mazen, was the major fruit of her first official visit to Israel this month.
In a statement from New York, where Ms. Albright has been holding a series of meetings coinciding with the opening of the United Nations General Assembly, the State Department said she had "worked assiduously" over the last few weeks to restart direct talks and hoped that her meeting on Monday would produce results. The department spokesman, James P. Rubin, said in the statement, however, that there was "still a great deal of work to be done in the coming days and weeks if the promise of peace in the Middle East is to become a reality."
The session on Monday is expected to lead to the resumption of meetings of eight joint committees set up to deal with matters like the Gaza airport, Palestinian prisoners, construction of a seaport in Gaza and free transit of Palestinians between Gaza and the West Bank.
Discussions on those issues, all of which were to have been concluded long ago under the Oslo agreements, have started and stopped several times in the stormy history of relations between Mr. Netanyahu and Mr. Arafat. Most recently, they were to resume just before Hamas suicide bombers struck on July 30. A second attack on Sept. 4 further set back the process.
Dimming the chances of significant progress, Mr. Netanyahu has made clear that he is not prepared to halt settlement construction in the West Bank beyond a "time out" of about three weeks during the Jewish holidays now getting under way. And Mr. Arafat has so far rebuffed Mr. Netanyahu's attempt to move directly to "final status" negotiations, forgoing the interim Israeli withdrawals required under the Oslo accords.
After sputtering through the first 10 months of Mr. Netanyahu's administration, talks with the Palestinians stopped completely in March after Israel embarked on the construction of a large housing project in East Jerusalem.
The latest American mediation effort came against a distinctively menacing drumbeat.
According to the Israeli radio, the Israeli Army held exercises in the northern West Bank last week focused on ways to counter a major Palestinian uprising, from the defense of threatened Jewish settlements to full-scale operations in Palestinian-controlled areas. The exercises were held on the first anniversary of the bloody clashes following the opening of a Western Wall tunnel, and were seen as a signal to the Palestinians that Israel stood ready for any level of conflict.
Israeli security officials continued to issue warnings that the same Hamas cell responsible for suicide bombings in July and this month might strike again. Popular gathering places like the Ben Yehuda pedestrian promenade, site of the attack on Sept. 4, and Jerusalem's large Malcha Mall, which is usually packed in advance of the holidays, drew unusually sparse crowds.
The warnings followed the announcement by Mr. Netanyahu last week that four of the five suicide bombers in the last two attacks had been identified by Israeli intelligence as residents of a West Bank village. He triumphantly brandished the disclosure in a number of interviews as proof of his assertion that Mr. Arafat was not combating terror.
Mr. Arafat, who had claimed that the attackers might have come from abroad, now charges that the village in question was under Israeli security control.
Mr. Netanyahu's announcement drew unusually open criticism from Israeli intelligence agencies, which put out a series of leaks in the Israeli press saying that they had counseled the Prime Minister against the early disclosure, and that it may have harmed their investigation by tipping off members of the cell. An official of the Shin Bet secret service was quoted in Haaretz as saying the Prime Minister had created a "terrible problem," and similar charges were published in other newspapers.
Mr. Netanyahu was also reported to have clashed with senior intelligence officials over their assessment of how Mr. Arafat could be made to fight Islamic terrorism. According to Zeev Schiff, a longtime security reporter for Haaretz, senior officers of Shin Bet and army intelligence told the Israeli Cabinet last week that Mr. Arafat had little incentive for cracking down on the Islamic organizations as long as the diplomatic process was stalled and Israel was not keeping its part of the agreements.
The assessment was assailed by Tourism Minister Moshe Katzav, a close ally of Mr. Netanyahu, who declared that the only choice it left the Government was "to change our basic concepts, or resign." Mr. Netanyahu agreed, Mr. Schiff wrote, saying, "I don't accept the military intelligence assessment either."
In the meantime, Hamas issued new threats of violence after a mysterious attack on a senior Hamas official in Amman, Khaled Mashal. Hamas insisted that the attack, which led to the hospitalization of Mr. Mashal, was an assassination attempt, while the Jordanian authorities said it was a fight between his driver and two Canadian citizens.
The dismal state of Israeli-Palestinian relations was the theme of a series of parting interviews by Mr. Indyk, who left Tel Aviv on Saturday after two and a half years as the American Ambassador. Mr. Indyk, who is now Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern Affairs, had been intimately involved in the Oslo process, and though he made little secret of his dismay as the process unraveled, he was unusually blunt in farewell speeches and interviews.
"I leave Israel with a heavy heart," he said in a speech to the Israeli Council for Peace and Security. "Increasingly people have the sense that we are headed back toward conflict, that peace -- real peace -- with the Palestinians is somehow no longer a realistic expectation."
"Somehow, the partnership has to be restored," he said. "Somehow we have to get back to the notion that both sides benefit from the process, that it is not a zero-sum game, that your interests are advantaged by helping the other side achieve their interests."
Mr. Indyk's replacement in Tel Aviv will be Edward S. Walker, currently Ambassador to Egypt. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); 

COMPANY: HAMAS (ISLAMIC FUNDAMENTALIST MOVEMENT) ; PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY ASSOCIATED PRESS (53%); HAMAS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (ISLAMIC FUNDAMENTALIST MOVEMENT) ; PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY HAMAS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; JERUSALEM; WEST BANK; GAZA STRIP; ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS ; TERRORISM; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); RELIGION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); HAMAS (89%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); FUNDAMENTALISM (75%); BOMBINGS (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); ARMIES (71%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (69%); COUNTERTERRORISM (69%); 

PERSON: ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC); SCHMEMANN, SERGE; NETANYAHU, BENJAMIN (PRIME MIN); ARAFAT, YASIR BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (89%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1997



580 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1997

SECTION: Section F; Page 9; Column 1; Science Desk; Health Page

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: Little Talk on Sexual Diseases

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN 

 BODY:
ALTHOUGH more than 12 million new cases of sexually transmitted diseases are diagnosed each year, three million of them among teen-agers alone, a recent survey of women from 18 to 44 years old found that most did not discuss such diseases in their first visits with a new gynecologist or obstetrician.
According to the survey, conducted for the Kaiser Family Foundation and Glamour Magazine, only 15 percent of the 482 women polled had discussed sexually transmitted diseases other than AIDS in their reproductive health visits. The women raised the topic 3 percent of the time, and the doctor or other health professional raised it in 12 percent of the visits. 
 AIDS and H.I.V., the virus that causes the disease, were discussed somewhat more frequently, being raised in 21 percent of the visits, by the patient in 2 percent and by the doctor in 19 percent. By comparison, breast self-examinations and Pap smears were discussed in three-quarters of the visits, birth control in more than half and alcohol use in a quarter.
"I think you can summarize the whole reason people don't talk about sexually transmitted diseases with the word shyness," said Dr. Felicia H. Stewart, the director of reproductive health programs at Kaiser. "Patients are shy about raising the issue and clinicians are shy about asking the questions, so you get a vicious circle of 'don't ask, don't tell.' "
The telephone survey was conducted by Market Facts Inc. in May and June, with a national sample of women who had been to a new gynecologist or obstetrician for the first time within the previous year. The margin of sampling error was plus or minus five percentage points.
According to the survey, only 3 percent of the women believed themselves to be at risk for sexually transmitted diseases. But at the current rates of infection, from a quarter to a half of all Americans will contract a sexually transmitted disease at some point in their lives.
Most of the women surveyed said it was up to the health professional to initiate the topic of sexually transmitted diseases.
The two most common sexually transmitted diseases are chlamydia, which infects four million people a year, and trichomoniasis, which infects three million. Both, left untreated, can cause serious reproductive difficulties. And both are now more prevalent in the United States than in any other industrialized nation.
But according to a previous Kaiser survey, few women are aware of either of the diseases, or their consequences. Less than a quarter of the women, asked what sexually transmitted diseases they were aware of, could name chlamydia, and only 2 percent could name trichomoniasis. And the majority of the women were unaware that such infections increased susceptibility to H.I.V. infection.
Kaiser's surveys have also found that many women believe erroneously that they are automatically tested for a wide range of sexually transmitted diseases as part of their regular gynecological examinations.
The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists' 1996 guidelines for women's health care recommends evaluation and counseling on sexually transmitted diseases as part of the routine assessment of all women under 65.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Gonorrhea Rise in Gay Men
 ATLANTA, Sept. 29 (AP) -- Cases of gonorrhea among homosexual men have more than doubled at some clinics in the United States, suggesting that safe sex is not being taken as seriously now that the AIDS epidemic is slowing, the Government has reported.
"We have heard anecdotes throughout the country that people feel H.I.V. is no longer the threat it used to be," said Dr. Helene Gayle of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. "We look at this as an indicator of the potential that people are returning to unsafe sexual behavior."
Homosexual men accounted for 8.7 percent of all gonorrhea cases in clinics in 26 cities in 1996, up from 5 percent three years earlier, the centers said.
The figures are based on the first 20 men to be found to have gonorrhea in each clinic each month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MFAC (NASDAQ) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (66%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: KAISER FAMILY FOUNDATION; GLAMOUR (MAGAZINE) SYNOVATE INC (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: KAISER FAMILY FOUNDATION; GLAMOUR (MAGAZINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: VENEREAL DISEASES; WOMEN; ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (96%); POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (92%); AIDS & HIV (91%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (90%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (90%); WOMEN (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (78%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); BACTERIA (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); VIRUSES (73%); 

PERSON: LEWIN, TAMAR

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1997



581 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1997

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 2314 words

HEADLINE: THE WARMING WORLD: Coping With Climate Change;
If Climate Changes, Who Is Vulnerable? Panels Offer Some Local Projections

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. STEVENS 

 BODY:
IF mainstream scientists are right in their forecast that the earth will warm up substantially in the decades ahead, what will happen to a place like, say, New England? Will its brilliant fall foliage fade? Its sugar maples migrate to Canada? Its ski slopes turn to slush? Its tourists vanish?
As negotiators from around the world struggle to agree on cuts in emissions of heat-trapping greenhouse gases, scientists are trying to bring the issue of global warming and attendant changes in climate down out of the stratosphere of scientific debate and global diplomacy into the everyday world, where some local officials and citizens are starting to think more about how the predicted changes might affect them. 
 It is not an easy task. Experts find it difficult enough to predict how temperature and climate will change globally if industrial society continues to emit greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide. This is mainly because of imperfections in computer models of the atmosphere on which global predictions are based.
Forecasting the regional and local impact of climate change is even harder because the global models do not deal with climatic change on a regional and local scale very well. To make matters even more difficult, the global environment and human economy interact in complex and often unfathomable ways, creating environmental stresses that could be either worsened or mitigated by alterations in climate.
But nothing prevents scientists from zeroing in on areas and activities that could be vulnerable to the predicted alterations in climate, and they are doing so more intensively.
In the case of New England (and upstate New York), for instance, experts meeting at a federally sponsored workshop at the University of New Hampshire this month said that the predicted changes do indeed pose a substantial, though still potential, threat in coming decades to the region's forests, its winters, its trout fisheries and shoreline developments -- many of the features, in fact, that together largely define the region's character. In some future autumn, the experts said, the landscape might be dominated not by the bright oranges, reds and yellows of maples, but by the duller brown of oaks and hickories that have migrated up from the South.
New England's very "sense of place" may be at risk, said Dr. Steven P. Hamburg, an ecologist at the University of Rhode Island.
But there will probably be gain as well as pain, winners as well as losers, and no country or region is likely to be affected in the same way. This point has been made again and again in the workshops held by the Government's Global Change Research Program. The meetings this year and next are designed to produce in 1999 a national assessment of the impact of climate change.
State and local officials, natural resource managers, businessmen and others who might have to deal with the effects of a changing climate have also been attending the meetings, watching and listening to scientists' slide presentations, and meeting in discussion groups, in the hallways and at the lunch table to exchange thoughts about what it all might mean.
In another forum, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, an international group of scientists that advises the climate negotiators under United Nations auspices, issued a report on Sunday at a meeting in the Maldives identifying potential losses, gains and widely varying effects from climate change in different regions of the world.
On the negative side in North America, for instance, the panel found that forests and their wild inhabitants in the East and parts of the mountain West might not be able to migrate northward or upward fast enough or far enough to adjust to the warming climate. The group further concluded that water shortages in the southern plains could be made worse, that agriculture in the Southeast and southern plains could be at risk, that deaths from extreme heat in Northern cities could increase and that coastal development could be threatened by rising seas.
On the positive side, the panel found that, for example, agriculture in the Northern United States and southern Canada, on the West Coast and in parts of the interior West could benefit, as could the magnificent evergreen forests of the West Coast; that milder winters could cut the number of cold-weather deaths and the cost of heating and snow clearance; and that northern waters could be open for navigation longer. In fact, the report said, the Arctic Ocean might become ice-free, opening a new trade route between Europe and Asia.
American society might be able to cope relatively easily with any single effect of climate change, said Dr. David S. Shriner, an ecologist at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee who was a lead author of the North American chapter of the intergovernmental panel's report. But he said that because there were likely to be several effects, all occurring at the same time, they would pose "increasing challenges" for policy makers, resource managers and citizens, especially because any changes would be difficult to predict.
One measure of the difficulty is that the intergovernmental panel's forecast of global warming specifies a wide range of possible increases in average surface temperature over the next century, from 2 to 6 degrees Fahrenheit; the panel's best estimate is about 3.5 degrees if greenhouse gas emissions are not reduced. Moreover, while the earth's surface has warmed by about 1 degree over the last century, scientists are not sure how much of that is natural and how much has been caused by greenhouse emissions.
Still, there are some early signs of actual climate change, and in some respects they appear in line with experts' admittedly very general notions of what is vulnerable and what is not. A case in point is Alaska, where, scientists at the University of Alaska said, the average warm-season temperature at Fairbanks has risen by nearly 3 degrees Fahrenheit in the last half-century. While the temperature reached 80 degrees for about a week in the early 1950's, it now does so for nearly three weeks. These figures were typical for central Alaska and much of the western North American Arctic, the scientists said.
It is possible that this warming could be an expression of the climate system's natural variability. But it is just the kind of temperature change the intergovernmental panel predicted; the Arctic is expected to warm more than the global average (while the tropics are expected to warm less).
Alaska is already experiencing the low range of the warming the panel predicted for the globe as a whole by the year 2100, Dr. Glenn P. Juday, a forest ecologist at the university in Fairbanks, said at the recent New England workshop. While only time will tell whether the Alaskan warm-up has been caused by greenhouse gases, he said, "the kinds of change you might expect from global warming are happening" in the state right now.
The evidence of Alaskan climate change is substantial, the scientists said: Glaciers have generally receded and typically become about 30 feet thinner in the last 40 years. There is about 5 percent less sea ice in the Bering Sea now than in the 1950's. Permafrost is thawing, and as it does, the ground is subsiding and holes are opening in roads. The thawing has also led to landslides and erosion, threatening roads and bridges and causing local floods.
Traditional ice cellars in northern villages have thawed and become useless. Melting sea ice has made hunting more dangerous for native people. More precipitation falls as rain than snow. But where it remains cold enough to snow, annual snowfall has increased, as would be expected in a generally warmer and therefore moister global atmosphere. The snow also melts faster, at least at low altitudes, and the intergovernmental panel forecasts more running and standing water.
The state's vast evergreen forests, called taiga, are under climatic siege, and Dr. Juday said their growth rate has gone "into the tank," in lock step with the temperature rise.
The new report of the intergovernmental panel said that tundra and taiga in North America may be reduced by two-thirds in the next century and that the southern boundary of the area covered by permafrost should shift northward by about 300 miles over the next 50 years, threatening roads, buildings, pipelines and other structures.
But there is good news for the Arctic, too, and there may be more if the warming is a long-term one. With less snow and more rain in coastal areas, for instance, there are fewer avalanches. The growing season is longer, and the intergovernmental panel says that some of the arctic may eventually open up to farming. Less ice offshore could aid oil and gas production, and warmer water could help fisheries. Heating costs could fall. Tourists could have easier access to the region. Once the permafrost is finished melting, construction should be easier than before.
The Arctic is among the regions most vulnerable to climate change, according to the panel's report. Other highly vulnerable places, it said, include small islands, many of which could be all but inundated by rising seas caused by heat-induced expansion of ocean water and melting ice sheets. The report specifically cited the Bahamas, the Maldives and the Pacific states of Kiribati and the Marshall Islands as examples of the most threatened spots. It said that as much as 80 percent of the Marshalls' territory could be drowned by a one-meter, or 3.28-foot, rise in sea level, which is in the high end of the range predicted by the panel by 2100. (The best estimate is a rise of about a foot and a half by then, with a continuing rise after that.)
Some 70 million people in low-lying areas of Bangladesh could be displaced by a one-meter rise, the panel said. Such a rise would also threaten the coastal zone on which Tokyo, Osaka and Nagoya sit in Japan, not to mention China and the Atlantic and Gulf Coasts of the United States, according to the panel, and salt water could intrude on inland rivers, threatening some supplies of fresh water.
The opposite problem, too little water, could be worsened in arid areas like the Middle East and parts of Africa, according to the intergovernmental panel. Global warming is expected to make droughts more frequent and severe in areas prone to them. Largely for this reason, according to the panel, Africa may be the continent most vulnerable to climate change, because its economy consists largely of rain-fed agriculture and many of its farmers are too poor and ill equipped to adapt.
Australia and parts of Latin America, too, were judged vulnerable to drought, and the panel projected falling agricultural production for some major crops in Mexico, Central America and parts of South America.
On the other hand, increased rainfall in temperate zones, combined with a warmer climate, longer growing seasons and the fertilizing properties of atmospheric carbon dioxide, might spur agriculture there. Much of the increase in precipitation is expected to come not from the steady, gentle rains favored by farmers, however, but from heavy storms that could increase flooding. Evidence of an increase in these heavy storms has already been detected in North America. Northern Europe, according to the panel, may be hit by more floods, while southern Europe is more vulnerable to drought.
In southern Asia, where hundreds of millions of rural dwellers depend on the seasonal flow of water from melting snow and ice in the Himalayas, there might be more water in the short term but less in the long run as glaciers and snow cover shrink.
As many of these examples suggest, much of the potential impact of climate change has to do with changes in the distribution of water around the world; that is, the planetary hydrological cycle involving evaporation of water from the earth's surface, precipitation, freezing and melting. In North America, for instance, water is the common factor tying together many impacts across many regions, the intergovernmental panel found. A warmer climate is expected to affect not only the kinds of weather people experience -- more severe rainstorms and also more severe droughts -- but also the availability of water in many regions. Some are likely to get more, others less.
Climate change may have serious repercussions for human health, said the intergovernmental panel. The ranges of mosquito-borne tropical diseases like malaria, dengue fever and encephalitis and waterborne diarrheal diseases could expand, for instance. And in a more direct effect, heat-related summertime deaths are expected to increase in northern American and European cities, and cold-related deaths to decrease.
The intergovernmental report said the expected net effect on total deaths is unclear in Europe, but a leading American expert on the subject said that in this country, the increase in heat deaths was likely to outweigh the reduction in deaths from cold. The reason, said Dr. Laurence S. Kalkstein of the University of Delaware, is that many cold-season deaths are related to diseases like flu, which are transmitted in closely confined winter quarters. Climate change is not likely to alter that picture of confinement very much in Northern cities, he said.
On the other hand, he told another recent Federal workshop at Pennsylvania State University, summertime heat deaths in Northern cities are almost certain to rise substantially if the climate warms as predicted. First, he said, Northerners are not as acclimatized to heat as Southerners are. Second, Northern buildings, especially in crowded cities, are not constructed to promote cooling. Even air-conditioning is no automatic fix, he said, because many inner-city dwellers cannot afford it. "There is no doubt in my mind that we have a problem," he said.

GRAPHIC: Charts/Map: "Coastal Lands at Risk"
If sea levels rose by 20 inches by the year 2100, as scientists expect, coastal areas would be at risk, Here are some examples of shoreline losses, in square miles. The chart shows the ratio between Wetlands and Drylands in five different regions of the country.
"Projected Loss of Habitat for Brown Trout"
If carbon dioxide doubles by 2050, as some fear, brown trout would lose habitat in some states. The map of the United States shows which states would suffer habitat lose, and what percentage. (Source: Environmental Protection Agency)(pg. F6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ENGLAND STATES (US); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; TROUT; AIR POLLUTION; SURVEYS AND SERIES CLIMATE CHANGE (92%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (77%); EMISSIONS (76%); FISHERIES (75%); NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); 

PERSON: STEVENS, WILLIAM K

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1997



582 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Natural Gas Prices Fall 7.6% On Warm Forecast for U.S.

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Natural gas futures fell sharply yesterday on a forecast of warm weather for the coming week.
Temperatures through next Monday will be above normal in much of the United States, including the Midwest, the biggest market for natural gas, according to the National Weather Service. The forecast came after prices surged 11 percent last week on expectations that inventories were not rising fast enough at the start of the heating season. 
 The forecast of warm weather comes "when the market was wishing for the dawn of a new ice age," said Tim Evans, senior energy analyst at Pegasus Econometric Group in New York.
Natural gas for November delivery fell 24.9 cents, or 7.6 percent, to $3.035 for 1,000 cubic feet on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Prices are still up 9.4 percent this year.
The rise in prices last week came during the first cold snap of the season and as companies that needed gas deliveries next month bought the October futures contract before its expiration on Friday.
On other markets, silver soared to a six-month high and copper rose.
Silver jumped as strong demand drained stockpiles. Inventories in warehouses monitored by the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange are at a 10-month low of 140.7 million ounces, the exchange said Friday after trading. Strong demand for silver for use in jewelry and photographic products has pushed inventories down 30 percent since June.
Silver for December delivery rose 28.3 cents, or 5.9 percent, to $5.105 an ounce on the Comex, the highest closing price for an active contract since April 1.
Copper posted its biggest single-day gain in almost eight months on expectations that demand from Europe and the United States will be robust in the coming months.
A report of an 11 percent rise in machinery orders received at German factories suggested that European industrial demand for copper tubing and wiring would rise.
Copper for December delivery rose 4.25 cents, or 4.5 percent, to 99.45 cents a pound on the Comex. Still, copper prices have fallen 16 percent since June 20 as increased world production caused a jump in inventories. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (51%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (83%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (83%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (51%); MIDWEST USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; GAS (FUEL); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SILVER; COPPER, BRASS AND BRONZE; WEATHER FUTURES (94%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (93%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); ENERGY MARKETS (91%); METALS MARKETS (90%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); SILVER MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); BASE METALS MARKETS (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); COPPER MARKETS (89%); COPPER INDUSTRY (88%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); WEATHER (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1997



583 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1997

SECTION: Section E; Page 2; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: Arts in America;
In Nashville, It's Not the Same Old Song Anymore

BYLINE: By Bruce Weber 

DATELINE: NASHVILLE, Sept. 28

 BODY:
Late Wednesday night, as the tourists, music business executives and the biggest stars in country music celebrated the Country Music Association awards here in renowned venues like Opryland, the Wildhorse Saloon and the Sunset Grill, Ernest Van Trease nursed a beer at Third and Lindsley's, a roomy honky-tonk on the outskirts of downtown.
Mr. Van Trease, 56, who was born here, has played keyboards for Ray Charles for more than a decade. He was among the few dozen jazz fans who stayed up past midnight at midweek to hear the final set of a high-decibel rock-jazz fusion band of considerable skill led by two local brothers, the Wootens, with Reggie on guitar and Joe on keyboards. It was loud, raucous, occasionally dissonant and frequently stirring. It wasn't anywhere near country music, and when a newcomer to the bar, probably the only out-of-towner in the place, expressed surprise, Mr. Van Trease's response was, "Nashville is full of music nobody knows about." 
 As it happens, Nashville is not only full of music nobody knows about, it's more or less empty of the music everybody knows about. People say it all the time: there's nowhere to go to hear top-flight country music.
"If you want to go to a club to hear music, you'll have a hard time hearing country," said Steve Turner, a well-known session drummer who has played behind Dolly Parton and also plays jazz.
There is some hyperbole in this, but the point is that the live music scene in Nashville is not exactly as its reputation would have it. Country music is still the economic foundation of the music business here, of course, but rock, rhythm-and-blues and, increasingly, jazz, have become the staples of nightlife; country is more of an export commodity. Part of the reason, said Tony Brown, country music producer and the president of MCA Nashville, is that most country musicians come to town from elsewhere because they are tired of having to play in clubs.
"They aspire to play sessions," Mr. Brown said. "Here if you play in a club you're probably not good enough to play on recordings." On the other hand, he added, "It's a cool thing to see a successful player at a jazz club, because you know he's doing it for the music."
At the same time, the success of the music industry here has created a vast pool of talented players, country and otherwise, who are here for the work. With 26 record labels in town, each of which has maybe 15 performers in its stable, there is an enormous amount of recording going on in hundreds of studios. For musicians tired of the itinerant life or unable to make ends meet in places like New York and Los Angeles, Nashville is a natural alternative.
"The technology's here and the players are as good as anyplace else," said Jim Hoke, a saxophonist with the rock band NRBQ who led his new nine-piece jazz ensemble, Hoke and the Jump Daddies, into Third and Lindsley's on Thursday. "Plus, you can park your car." And many who work sessions in the studios by day or tour with the country stars who live here, are interested in their off hours in exercising different, noncountry chops. "I came here to play steel guitar 20 years ago," said Mel Deal, the Jump Daddies' guitarist, "and I just got tired of hanging out with those country guys."
A result has been a expansion in the range of local talent. "We have a wonderful musician pool now," said Cliff Richmond, a guitarist and leader of a popular local jazz band, the CliffNotes. Mr. Richmond, who moved here 19 years ago and runs a tutoring business to supplement his income, sees the growing numbers of musicians whetting the local appetite for jazz. "It's like that biological soup that made humans," he said.
No one is saying that jazz is about to replace country music as the local industry. But there are signs that the taste of the town is being modified. A light jazz radio station, WJZC-FM, the city's first (a public station, WMOT, devoted to traditional jazz, is in nearby Murfreesboro) began broadcasting last December, and has steadily increased its audience, said its program director, Billy Shears. This fall, two concerts, one featuring Chick Corea and Gary Burton and the other Herbie Hancock and Wayne Shorter, are booked at the 2,000-seat Ryman Auditorium.
Ron Brice, the owner of Third and Lindsley's, has just expanded his club for the second time, to 225 seats, up from 100 five years ago. And Pino Squillace, owner of Caffe Milano, a year-old upscale downtown club that has presented Branford Marsalis, Bela Fleck and the Flecktones, Nancy Wilson and John Pizzarelli (Chuck Mangione is also to perform), is also expanding. "I remember people saying to me, 'What are you? Nuts? A jazz club in Nashville?"' Mr. Squillace said. "But I always believed there was a place for it. And it worked."
Last weekend, in the wake of the city's biggest annual country music extravaganza, jazz was all over town. At the cavernous Ace of Clubs on Second Avenue, El Bu'ho, a trumpeter also known as Gary Gazzaway who has played with the rock band Phish, led his acid, Latin-tinged electric ensemble; a traditional trio, Birdsong, played the tiny lounge of F. Scott's in the southwestern Green Hills section of town, just around the corner from the famous country songwriters' showcase, the Bluebird Cafe, and there were the Wooten Brothers and the Jump Daddies, a band whose sound is like a melding of the Duke Ellington and Lyle Lovett big bands.
"It's a small scene, but it's pretty good," said Pat McDonald, 31, a drummer for the Wooten Brothers who, very early Thursday morning after the final set, was considering not going to sleep at all; he had to leave at sunup on the bus with Tanya Tucker. "You can't stay alive just playing clubs. But one night a week you get to do something hip."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Off the country road: Hoke and the Jump Daddies, a jazz ensemble, at Third and Lindsley's in Nashville. (Christopher Berkey for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (96%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: COUNTRY MUSIC ASSOCIATION (84%); COUNTRY MUSIC ASSOCIATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNTRY MUSIC ASSOCIATION (84%); COUNTRY MUSIC ASSOCIATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE (TENN); UNITED STATES (96%); TENNESSEE, USA (96%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; COUNTRY MUSIC; JAZZ; ROCK MUSIC; RECORDINGS (AUDIO) COUNTRY MUSIC (94%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); 

PERSON: WEBER, BRUCE MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1997



584 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Pound Is Steadier as Britain Denies Change of Euro Plans

BYLINE: By Bridge News 

 BODY:
The pound steadied a bit yesterday from a sharp selloff on Friday after several British ministers over the weekend denied that there had been a change in the Government's policy on European monetary union.
The dollar was little changed against most other major currencies as traders awaited important economic reports in Japan and the United States as well as a possible move on interest rates by the Bundesbank. 
 The pound was spurred higher by weekend comments from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Gordon Brown, and the Foreign Secretary, Robin Cook, both of whom dismissed as speculation a report that the Government was considering joining the European single-currency union somewhat sooner than expected. Their comments followed a report on Friday in The Financial Times, quoting an unidentified Cabinet minister, that the Cabinet was discussing joining the monetary union shortly after the single currency, the euro, was introduced in 1999.
"I still think the threat of the U.K. going back into the E.M.U. is probably going to hang over sterling," said Bob Steiner, a currency trader at the Mellon Bank.
Also bolstering the pound yesterday were stronger-than-expected British economic data, including consumer credit for August, September money supply and a survey showing a healthy increase in British house prices in September.
The pound rose as high as $1.6206 before settling in New York trading at $1.6093, down from $1.6111 on Friday. The dollar was also quoted at 1.7621 marks, up from 1.7577 marks, and 120.95 yen, down from 121.25 yen.
The dollar remained in a narrow range against most other major currencies.
Today, the Bundesbank will announce the terms for its weekly auction. A move to a variable rate rather than the current 3 percent fixed rate would be seen as the first move toward higher interest rates in Germany. The Federal Reserve's policy-making committee also meets today, though the Fed is expected to leave rates unchanged.
Tomorrow, the Bank of Japan will release its quarterly business sentiment survey, and on Friday, the United States will issue the September employment report. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (57%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (70%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (57%); BANK OF JAPAN (52%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; GREAT BRITAIN; GERMANY; UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES CURRENCIES (95%); MONETARY UNIONS (92%); EURO (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US DOLLAR (77%); CONSUMER CREDIT (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); REAL ESTATE (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); MONEY SUPPLY (72%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (71%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (66%); CONSUMER LENDING (66%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); HOME PRICES (51%); 

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1997



585 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: Albert G. Hart, 88, Monetary Policy Specialist

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL 

 BODY:
Albert Gailord Hart, a former professor of economics at Columbia University known for his research in monetary policy and economic development, died Sept. 19at his home in Sherman, Conn., at the age of 88.
Mr. Hart, a graduate of Harvard College who earned his Ph.D. at the University of Chicago, was widely viewed as a rising star in the profession, turning down a coveted position at Chicago to come to Columbia in 1946. 
 He was best known among his peers for his book "Anticipations, Uncertainty and Dynamic Planning," which was published in 1940. "This was early and very exciting work, incorporating expectations and probability in economic models," recalled Paul Samuelson, the Nobel Prize-winning economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
But Mr. Hart's deepest interests were in more practical aspects of economics. Early in his career, he worked on tax policy for the United States Treasury and the Committee for Economic Development -- in particular on reworking the income tax to make it more equitable. Later he focused on methods for fine-turning the control of the money supply, the Federal Government's key lever in trying to contain inflation and smooth the business cycle. And during the 1960's, he served as a consultant on public finance to the Governments of Chile and Venezuela, as well as to the Organization of American States.
The American Economic Association recognized his achievements in 1963, electing him to the largely honorary post of vice president.
His boundless energy and high-speed chatter gave him a reputation as a campus eccentric. But those who listened respected him for his intellectual insight and generosity. "People wrote books on ideas Albert tossed out," said Shirley Johnson-Lens, a former student of Mr. Hart who now teaches at Vassar College.
He did not confine his enthusiasm to economics. A singer and musician, he was a member of the New Amsterdam Singers and later conducted his own amateur choral groups.
Mr. Hart is survived by Ann Webster Hart, his wife of 61 years, and two children, Stephen Hart of Buffalo and Josephine Hart Bristol of Sherman, Conn.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (70%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (91%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (58%); COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (56%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (56%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (54%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (54%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (54%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (91%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (58%); COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (56%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (56%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (54%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (54%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (54%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (98%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (85%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); CHILDREN (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TAX LAW (68%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (66%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (62%); MUSIC (62%); 

PERSON: HART, ALBERT G; PASSELL, PETER PAUL ANTHONY SAMUELSON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1997



586 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 21; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasuries Mostly Flat; Trading Thin

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Treasury securities ended little changed yesterday in thin volume, as investors and traders awaited news from the Federal Reserve meeting today on monetary policy. Most expected no change.
Beyond the one-day Federal Open Market Committee meeting, market participants are focusing on other events that could influence trading this week, notably a monthly survey on the manufacturing economy from United States factory purchasing executives and the Labor Department's September employment data. 
 The price of the 30-year bond was down 8/32, to 99 29/32. The yield, which rises when the price falls, advanced to 6.38 percent, from 6.36 percent Friday. Shorter-term maturities were unchanged or marginally lower. The Commerce Department's report that August income rose six-tenths of 1 percent and spending gained three-tenths of 1 percent were within expectations, but some market participants used the data as an excuse to take profits. Overnight weakness set the tone for the session.
Today's Fed policy meeting was viewed largely as a nonevent. Almost everyone expects no shift in policy because inflation has still not become an immediate or future threat.
So the market's focus turned to the September manufacturing report by the National Association of Purchasing Management tomorrow and the Labor Department's monthly employment statistics on Friday. More often than not investors will demand a premium if they feel that are taking added risks ahead of market-moving numbers, particularly the employment data, which many view as the key to growth and inflation.
"For the past five years, there has been a major debate among economists, analysts and policy makers about the mystery of strong growth with no inflation." said Kenneth J. McCarthy, founder of the Economic Intelligence Company, a consulting and forecasting firm.
"Yet here we are in what is already the fourth longest economic expansion in the past 15 years, with the lowest unemployment rate since the early 1970's, in an economy that has just recorded the strongest first-half growth in 13 years, and inflation is at its lowest level in 30 years, and it is falling," Mr. McCarthy said.
He said the phenomenon had "caused even such an ardent inflation fighter as Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan to wonder if there isn't something different on today's economy."
Mr. McCarthy said he believed the economy was slowing. "That's why I don't expect Fed to move this year at all," he said. "The economy is repeating a pattern of the past couple of years, where there is a spurt of growth followed by a consolidation."
The last time the Fed raised short-term interest rates was in March, when it moved the target range for the Federal funds rate, which banks charge one another for overnight loans, to 5.50 percent from 5.25 percent. Fed policy makers elected to leave rates unchanged in the last three meetings in May, July and August.
Interest rates at yesterday's weekly Treasury auction increased slightly. The average rate for a three-month bill rose to 4.93 percent, from 4.90 percent last week, while the six-month maturity increased to 5.08 percent from 5.04 percent.
The following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new three-month and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 3-Mo. Bills 6-Mo. Bills Average Price 98.740 97.432 Discounted Rate 4.93% 5.08% Coupon Yield 5.06% 5.29% High Price 98.750 97.442 Discounted Rate 4.89% 5.06% Coupon Yield 5.02% 5.26% Low Price 98.738 97.432 Discounted Rate 4.94% 5.08% Coupon Yield 5.07% 5.29% Accepted at low price 25% 46% Total applied for $41,920,382 $39,420,269 Accepted $10,867,882 $11,015,417 Noncompetitive $1,241,024 $1,138,134
 
Both issues are dated Oct. 2, 1997. The three-month bills mature on Jan. 2, 1998, and the six-month bills mature on April 2, 1998.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks average discounted rate, in percent at weekly auction, since June. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (55%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (84%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (84%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES MONETARY POLICY (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); INTEREST RATES (85%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); STATISTICS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); INDUSTRIAL PURCHASING (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (71%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1997



587 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: Incomes Gained in August; Spending Rose Moderately

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 29

 BODY:
Steady job gains pushed incomes solidly higher in August, the Commerce Department said today, as consumers raised their spending at a moderate rate.
Total income from wages, salaries, interest, rents and all other sources rose six-tenths of a percent, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $6.919 trillion, after a revised gain in July of two-tenths of a percent and an increase of six-tenths of a percent in June. 
 The strong pickup in incomes obscured the effects of a two-week strike by United Parcel Service workers last month that the Government said cost about $2.5 billion in lost wages and salaries.
Spending increased three-tenths of a percent, to a rate of $5.521 trillion in August, after a revised 1 percent jump in July, the biggest monthly gain since 1.1 percent in January.
The income and spending data were the last Government reports on the economy before a meeting on Tuesday by Federal Reserve policy makers on interest-rate strategy. Analysts said the figures suggested steady growth at a healthy pace in the third quarter but not enough to result in a rate increase.
Robert Dederick, an economic consultant to the Northern Trust Company in Chicago, said the personal incomes report confirmed that consumers were once more shopping after a slowdown in spending during the second quarter.
"The basic story is that the consumer remains a full-fledged participant in the expansion," he said.
Gains in personal income are fundamental for steady growth, since consumer spending on goods and services accounts for the majority of national economic activity.
Mr. Dederick said he expected the economy, measured by gross domestic product, to expand at a 3.2 percent annual rate in the third quarter ending this month. Last Friday, the Commerce Department said G.D.P. grew at a 3.3 percent rate in the second quarter.
Previously, the department said July incomes had risen one-tenth of 1 percent and that spending had increased by eight-tenths of a percent. But it revised both figures upward.
Even with steady spending rises in August, consumers were able to increase their savings, putting 3.8 cents out of each dollar earned into bank accounts or investments. That was up from 3.6 cents in July.
August spending on costly durable goods rose three-tenths of a percent, to $669.6 billion a year, much weaker than July's 3.2 percent increase. Spending on quickly used nondurables, like paper and food products, was up two-tenths of a percent last month, to $1.595 trillion, after a rise in July of six-tenths of a percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Personal Income" tracks total personal income, at seasonally adjusted annual rates, from March 1996 through April 1997. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (83%); UPS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (57%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT NORTHERN TRUST CORP (83%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); STATISTICS (89%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); DURABLE GOODS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (67%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1997



588 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Dow Up 69.25; Small Stocks Lift Market

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Stocks rose yesterday, with shares of smaller companies resuming their record-setting march as investors took an optimistic posture ahead of a Federal Reserve meeting today and some key economic reports due later in the week.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 69.25 points, to 7,991.43. The blue-chip index, which has not closed above 8,000 since Aug. 20, started the day with a 28-point deficit but quickly turned higher. 
Broader stock indicators also shrugged off early weakness to post some sizable gains.
The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies, which had set record closings for eight straight sessions before slumping on Wednesday and Thursday, moved back into record territory, and other closely watched measures moved within striking distance of new highs.
"It's an encouraging performance, even though the Dow has once again shied away from the 8,000 mark," said Eugene Peroni, director of technical research at Janney Montgomery Scott in Philadelphia, adding that the Dow "is trending toward the upper part of its range."
The Dow, still about 270 points below its Aug. 6 peak of 8,259.31, bobbed above 8,000 during four sessions in the last two weeks, but quickly retreated each time.
There was little reaction to yesterday morning's news that consumer spending rose a modest three-tenths of 1 percent in August -- down from a 1 percent spurt in July -- despite a healthy six-tenths of 1 percent gain in personal income.
The report, which met most forecasts, was the last piece of Government data before the Fed's policy-making Federal Open Market Committee gathers today.
Few analysts expect any change in monetary policy by the Fed, which has not raised its interest rate targets since March, when it pushed up rates to prevent a resurgence of inflation.
Even if the Fed leaves rates unchanged, however, investors are expected to trade cautiously before economic reports due later in the week that will offer the first taste of September data.
"I don't think the market will be vulnerable to anything but the worst news," Mr. Peroni said.
The most important reports should be tomorrow's reading on manufacturing activity and Friday's data on payroll and wage levels. The Fed's chief concern is whether a strong job market has forced manufacturers to raise wages significantly, as they try to keep up with heavy demand.
Yesterday's gains were spread across a broad spectrum. The only Dow component that gained more than 2 points was I.B.M., which rose 2 3/8, to 105; the next biggest Dow gainers were Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, up 1 7/8, to 92 5/16; Alcoa, up 1 9/16, to 81 7/8; Chevron, up 1 7/16, to 84 1/2, and Merck, up 1 7/16, to 101 9/16.
Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by a 4-to-3 margin on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume totaled a modest 477.1 million shares.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 8.12 points, to 953.34; the New York Stock Exchange composite index rose 3.78, to 498.98, just shy of last Monday's record close of 499.16, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 12.74, to 1,694.98, less than 3 points from its record high set last Tuesday.
The Russell 2000 rose 2.43, to 451.31, beating last Tuesday's record close of 449.42. The American Stock Exchange composite index, which is dominated by smaller companies, rose 4.82, to 694.66, beating last Monday's record mark of 689.94.
 
ON THE WEB
The latest stock and mutual fund quotations, along with news updates, are available on the Internet from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (50%); AA (NYSE) (50%); MMM (SWX) (50%); MMM (NYSE) (50%); MMM (FRA) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (50%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (50%); NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (50%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (50%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (50%); 3M CO (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); TRENDS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING (73%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); INTEREST RATES (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1997



589 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: Union Pacific, With Cargo Backlog, Goes to Sea

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: OMAHA, Sept. 29

 BODY:
The Union Pacific Corporation, the nation's largest railroad company, said today that it planned to ship some cargo by sea to ease a backlog.
Television sets, tennis shoes, clothing, paper goods and appliances are being held in 3,000 containers the size of trucks in the Los Angeles area. The railroad will use APL Ltd. of Oakland, Calif., to move 660 containers around Mexico, through the Panama Canal and up to Savannah, Ga. The trip will take two weeks. By rail it would take six days. 
 "In order to unclog that area we had to look in the box for something we normally would not do," Mark Davis, a spokesman for the railroad, said. "It is safe to say this is the first time that we have ever done anything like this." The plan was reported today in The Wall Street Journal.
The Omaha-based Union Pacific predicted growing pains when it merged with Southern Pacific one year ago. Computer systems, labor agreements and dispatching duties are being cobbled together.
But aggravating the merger difficulties are three accidents that killed seven people and prompted a safety crackdown and a booming economy that heightened demand for train service, a record fall wheat harvest and the coming Christmas season.
Union Pacific traffic is backed up, sometimes by two weeks, particularly in its southern tier from California across Arizona, New Mexico, Texas and into the East Coast.
"I thought this merger would probably go pretty smoothly," said Eugenia Simpson of the investment firm Kirkpatrick Pettis in Omaha. "Apparently it's not."
Chemical and plastic manufacturers say they are losing $36 million a month and idling thousands of workers because Union Pacific is not hauling materials to and from plants in Texas. Lumber, steel and grain producers in the Northwest say they are worried about delays.
"We haven't made any secret of the fact that this backlog has caused problems throughout our system," said Mike Furtney, a spokesman for the railroad in San Francisco.
Union Pacific said it hoped that a combined computer system, expanded rail yards and new labor accords would be felt by early November. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UNP (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (98%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (98%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (72%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (72%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); PANAMA (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); NEBRASKA, USA (90%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (73%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (90%); OMAHA, NE, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: UNION PACIFIC CORP; SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAIL CORP UNION PACIFIC CORP (98%); APL LTD (72%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%); D A DAVIDSON & CO (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNION PACIFIC CORP; SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAIL CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PANAMA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); NEBRASKA, USA (90%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (73%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (90%); OMAHA, NE, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; SHIPS AND SHIPPING RAIL TRANSPORTATION (91%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (77%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (71%); WHEAT FARMING (68%); GRAIN FARMING (66%); CHRISTMAS (51%); PLASTICS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1997



590 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1417 words

HEADLINE: Clash of Cultures Tears Texas City

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: AMARILLO, Tex., Sept. 25

 BODY:
Everyone here agrees that Rosa Gonzales and Ester Hernandez were hired at the Allied Insurance Agency because they spoke Spanish. But the question that has set off a remarkably passionate debate here in the Texas Panhandle is this: Should they have been dismissed for the same reason?
The two women, who were born in Texas and are fluent in both English and Spanish, worked as clerks at a small insurance agency where many customers speak Spanish as their primary language. The agency's owner, Pat Polk, who said he had been irritated that the women had also chatted in Spanish with each other during the workday, asked them to sign a pledge making Allied Insurance "an English speaking office except when we have customers who can't speak our language." 
 Mrs. Gonzales and Mrs. Hernandez refused, and what happened next is still in dispute. The women say they were dismissed in July, while Mr. Polk says their refusal to sign the pledge meant that they quit. The state has accepted Mr. Polk's version and denied the women unemployment benefits, a decision they are appealing.
The ensuing fracas has led to a boycott of Allied by two Hispanic groups here, threats of lawsuits, unsuccessful efforts at mediation by local law professors, a surge of local media interest and lively arguments on talk-radio programs in the area.
More broadly, the whole question of whether the two women had the right to speak Spanish to each other while in Mr. Polk's employment clearly goes to the core of the fusing of Anglo and Hispanic cultures across the Southwest. It is a mix that has long given the region a unique vibrancy, one that shows up in its art, music, food and even in the language: the two women at the insurance agency said they tended to talk to each other in "Spanglish," a popular hybrid of the two languages.
But it is also one that has produced ethnic tensions, which seem to be especially volatile in places like West Texas, where the Hispanic population is growing much more quickly than the long-dominant Anglo population.
The language dispute at the insurance company here is by no means isolated. Just two years ago, an Amarillo judge sparked a national controversy when he ordered a Mexican-American woman involved in a custody dispute to speak English to her 5-year-old daughter. Otherwise, he said, "You're abusing that child and you're relegating her to the position of housemaid." (The judge later issued an apology to the woman and to "the profession of housekeeping.")
Last year, a dispute was set off in another Texas Panhandle town when the local school district refused to allow a celebration of Cinco de Mayo, the Mexican holiday.
Now along comes the dispute over Mrs. Gonzales and Mrs. Hernandez, who are both West Texas natives. In many ways, it seems to be the most intense of all.
While local Hispanic leaders are furious over what happened to the women, Mr. Polk has drawn support from some quarters, including the local branch of the Texas Workforce Commission, the state agency that denied the women unemployment benefits.
In announcing that decision, agency officials sent letters to the two women last month that said, "Our investigation found you left your last work rather than carry out a reasonable request from your employer." The women are appealing the finding, but no date has been set for a hearing.
Both women say they were highly offended when Mr. Polk handed them his handwritten pledge and said, "If you can't live with the rules here -- draw your pay and make the rules at your next job."
Mrs. Hernandez, a 28-year-old mother of two who had worked previously as a cashier at J.C. Penney, recalled: "I said, 'I can't sign that. I just don't think this is right.' "
Mrs. Gonzales, 33, a mother of three who had worked at the mammoth beef-packing plant here at the edge of town, said: "I told him no. This is what I am; this is what I do. This is normal to me. I'm not doing it to offend anybody. It just feels comfortable."
But Mr. Polk, 56, also a West Texas native, said the women's refusal to follow the rules set by him and his wife, Linda, the agency's co-owners, was outrageous.
"The only thing I asked was, 'Let's work together in a language we can all understand,' " he said. Mrs. Polk said the women's chatting in Spanish was "almost like they were whispering to each other behind our backs. It was very rude." Mr. Polk said he had taken two years of Spanish in high school and could not remember any of it.
Neither side is about to apologize to the other. "Oh, no," Mr. Polk said. "I'm not about to reward somebody for insubordination."
Mrs. Gonzales said: "I think he was wrong. It's like he was telling us to deny who we are, forget our heritage."
The community reaction here, while fervent, has fallen largely, but by no means completely, along ethnic lines. Mr. Polk said he had received support from many of his Hispanic customers. He said they had told him that he was right to enforce his English-only rule. Many residents of Amarillo -- whose population of 168,000 is about 75 percent non-Hispanic white, 15 percent Hispanic and 6 percent black -- have defended the women in call-in programs and letters to the editor.
Both Mrs. Gonzales and Mrs. Hernandez had worked for several months at the agency, a small storefront office in the Barrio, a heavily Hispanic neighborhood in south Amarillo. They were paid $5 an hour in jobs that involved selling insurance, offering quotes, filing accident reports and helping to settle claims.
What set off the clash remains in dispute, though there seems to have been tension in the office over many things, including what station to play on radios in the office.
Mrs. Gonzales described a dispute with Mrs. Polk over the radios. "Linda said she wanted them on all-country, and we were joking about doing it on all-Tejano."
Mr. Polk, whose agency was picketed on Sept. 20 and on two weekends previously, said he was angry that the dispute had escalated into an ethnic confrontation.
"It's been made into me belittling the Spanish people, and it's not that way," he said. "They're trying to make this a racial thing, and it's not."
In letters that Mr. Polk has sent to just about every elected official in the region, he has cast the women's refusal to sign the pledge as a matter of both rudeness and dereliction of duty.
"Our office is a four-employee office," he wrote. "We had three Spanish and one Caucasian woman working for us. The Spanish women were chatting in Spanish a great portion of the day amongst themselves, while I, my wife and the other woman were left out of the conversations, as we don't understand Spanish."
Mr. Polk and Mrs. Gonzales and Mrs. Hernandez also dispute whether Mr. Polk had ever asked them not to speak Spanish to each other before confronting them with the pledge. He said he and his wife had repeatedly made that request, but they say he never did. Joan Weigand, the other Anglo employee in the office, backs up the Polks's contention. When the remaining employee, Edna Mobley, 31, was asked about the matter in the Polks's presence, she said, "I really don't remember."
Ms. Mobley, who is fluent in both languages, said she had signed the pledge to speak English, to which a beaming Mr. Polk beckoned to a visitor and said, "That's one sharp little Mexican girl right there!"
The legal terrain in the matter is murky. A handbook published by the Federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission says that a rule requiring employees to speak English at all times on the job may violate civil rights laws "unless an employer shows it is necessary for conducing business." But some Federal courts have upheld English-only requirements. The Amarillo case is unusual because while the women often spoke Spanish to conduct business, the issue is whether they could use it socially while on the job.
The division in the community over the issue is evident among the customers who come to Allied.
Alarene Williamson, 32, a co-owner of Dr. Buff's Detail Shop, said, speaking of Mr. Polk: "It's his company, right? I think it's totally fair to ask the people who work there to speak English."
But her fiance, Wayne Collins, the other co-owner of the detail shop, said: "It's a free country, so I think they should be able to speak whatever language they want. And if it really bothers the guy that much that he doesn't understand it, then maybe he should learn Spanish. I mean, he could take a class or something."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Two West Texas women, Ester Hernandez, left, and Rosa Gonzales, sitting in Mrs. Hernandez's home in Amarillo, Tex., last week, refused to obey an order from their employers to speak only English while at work. Below, a portion of a letter issued by the employers, owners of a small insurance office. (Photographs by David Bowser for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (97%); SOUTHWEST, USA (79%); 

CITY: AMARILLO, TX, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ALLIED INSURANCE AGENCY ALLIED INSURANCE AGENCY OF MAINE INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ALLIED INSURANCE AGENCY

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS; AMARILLO (TEX); SOUTHWESTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (97%); TEXAS, USA (97%); SOUTHWEST, USA (79%); AMARILLO, TX, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HISPANIC-AMERICANS; ENGLISH LANGUAGE; SPANISH LANGUAGE INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); CINCO DE MAYO (71%); POPULATION GROWTH (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); LITIGATION (66%); MUSIC (65%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (64%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (61%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (50%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE; HERNANDEZ, ESTER; GONZALES, ROSA MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1997



591 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: White House Opens Attack On I.R.S. Oversight Proposal

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 29

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration today harshly criticized a Congressional proposal to revamp oversight of the Internal Revenue Service, saying the plan would create new problems as the agency responds to disclosures that its agents harassed taxpayers.
Gene Sperling, the White House's economic policy director, said the bipartisan Congressional proposal -- which would take oversight of the tax agency away from the Treasury Department and place it in the hands of a management board including seven private citizens -- would create the potential for conflicts of interest and diminished Government accountability for the I.R.S.'s performance. 
Mr. Sperling told reporters at a White House briefing that the Administration was committed to halting the kinds of abuses of taxpayers highlighted last week in hearings before the Senate Finance Committee.
But with Republicans eagerly seeking to turn the issue to their political advantage, Mr. Sperling suggested that the White House had no inclination to budge from the position previously staked out by Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin: that the best way to overhaul the I.R.S. is to allow the Treasury Department to continue tightening management of tax collection procedures, punish agents who mistreat taxpayers, improve the agency's computer systems and create an oversight board made up of Government officials drawn from the executive branch.
"It is a recipe for conflicts of interest," Mr. Sperling said of the Congressional proposal. "And the notion that the right way to deal with these problems with the I.R.S. is to decrease accountability and have part-time managers who would be themselves involved in a range of financial transactions would be a serious step backwards."
The proposal being debated in Congress is based on recommendations made by Representative Rob Portman, an Ohio Republican, and Senator Bob Kerrey, Democrat of Nebraska. Legislation that the two lawmakers have proposed would create a management board made up of the Treasury Secretary, the head of the Treasury workers' union and seven private citizens who would be nominated by the President and subject to Senate confirmation.
The legislation would also strip the President of the right to name the Internal Revenue Commissioner, although members of Congress say they are discussing compromise language that would permit the White House to retain that right.
The legislation is likely to come to a vote in the House Ways and Means Committee late next month and in the full House by early November. The Senate has not set a timetable for considering the bill, and might postpone any action until next year.
But in a sign of how politically charged the issue is becoming, the Speaker of the House, Newt Gingrich, sent a letter to President Clinton today saying he was "greatly alarmed" by Mr. Sperling's comments.
"If you do not repudiate the statements made by Mr. Sperling today, you will have allied yourself with the I.R.S.'s bureaucratic machine and turned your back on millions of Americans who have been pulled through its gears," Mr. Gingrich told Mr. Clinton in the letter.
In an interview, Mr. Rubin said the Administration had been adopting sweeping management changes at the I.R.S. for the last several years. As an illustration of the shifts, he cited Mr. Clinton's nomination of a computer software executive, Charles O. Rossotti, to be the Internal Revenue Commissioner, part of an effort to bring more managerial strength to the sprawling agency.
"The I.R.S.'s problems go back a long way," Mr. Rubin said, "but this has been a very active period relative to our oversight and to reform of I.R.S. management." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION TAXES & TAXATION (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); POLITICS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (78%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); ROB PORTMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1997



592 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Ruling Helps Hilton In Its Bid for ITT
A judge ruled that ITT directors cannot split the company into three businesses without shareholder approval, a decision that buoyed Hilton's hostile $11.5 billion bid for ITT. The judge gave the company until Nov. 14 to hold a shareholders meeting.
The three-way split was part of a strategy announced by Rand V. Araskog, the chief executive of ITT, to defeat the unsolicited bid that Hilton announced in January. Page D8. 

Stocks Rebound From Early Dip
Stocks rose strongly as investors were optimistic that the Federal Reserve would leave interest rates unchanged today. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 69.25 points, to 7,991.43, after early sluggishness. D10.
 
Treasury securities ended little changed in thin trading, with the yield on the 30-year bond rising to 6.38 percent from 6.36. D21.
 
Republic to Sell Security Unit
H. Wayne Huizenga has soured on the security business. Republic Industries, which he controls, plans to sell its security operations to Ameritech for $610 million, making Ameritech No. 2 in that field behind ADT, which Republic had unsuccessfully tried to acquire. D8.
 
Incomes and Spending Rise
Steady job gains pushed incomes solidly higher in August, as consumers raised their spending at a moderate rate. D8.
 
Penguin Books in Settlement
Penguin Books and a trade association for independent bookstores have struck a deal to settle a feud arising from a multimillion-dollar accounting scandal that involved unauthorized discounts to large retailers. D6.
 
Backlog at Union Pacific
Union Pacific, the nation's largest railroad, said that it planned to ship some cargo by sea to ease a backlog, amid growing pains after its merger with Southern Pacific. D4.
 
The Doctor Is a Nurse
More and more nurses are acting in roles traditionally filled by doctors, helping patients deal with common complaints and referring those with complicated problems to specialists. The trend, like others in health care, is driven in part by the move to cut costs. A1.
 
France Stands Behind Iran Deal
France's Prime Minister voiced strong support for a $2 billion contract signed between Total, the French oil company, and Iran to explore natural gas fields. He rejected what he called America's attempts to impose its laws on the world through a measure that authorizes sanctions against companies investing in Iran or Libya. A1.
 
Caution About Cash Cards
Consumers in a Canadian test of electronic cash cards have been reluctant to give up their "loonies," as dollar coins are known there. A similar test is coming to the Upper West Side of Manhattan. D2.
 
British Pound Bounces Back a Bit
The pound steadied a bit from a sharp selloff after several British ministers over the weekend denied a report that there had been a change in the Government's policy on European monetary union. D17.
 
Natural Gas Futures Plunge
Natural gas futures fell sharply on a forecast of warm weather for the coming week. D17.
 
A Dispute Over Language
Everyone agrees that two women were hired by an insurance agency in Amarillo, Tex., because they spoke Spanish. But the question that has set off a remarkably passionate debate is this: Should they have been dismissed for the same reason? A14.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 7,991.43, up 69.25
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.38%, up 0.02
The Dollar -- 120.95 yen, down 0.30
 
Graph: "TODAY"
 August figures due at 10 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: -0.7%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: TTA (LSE) (63%); TOT (NYSE) (63%); TOT (BIT) (63%); FP (PAR) (63%); FP (BRU) (63%); T (NYSE) (55%); UNP (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (63%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (63%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (63%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (63%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (63%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (54%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (54%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); 

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); FRANCE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (65%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: TOTAL SA (63%); AT&T INC (55%); UNION PACIFIC CORP (54%); PENGUIN PUBLISHING CO LTD (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); FRANCE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (65%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); NATURAL GAS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (79%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); MERGERS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); JUDGES (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); CURRENCIES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); FUTURES (75%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (75%); BONDS (75%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); TRENDS (74%); ENERGY MARKETS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); BOOKSTORES (70%); HEALTH CARE (68%); RETAILERS (65%); BRITISH POUND (62%); PRIME MINISTERS (61%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%); SMART CARDS (60%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (50%); ACCOUNTING (50%); SCANDALS (50%); 

PERSON: RAND V ARASKOG (57%); H WAYNE HUIZENGA (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1997



593 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: Union Strategy Results in Coup At US Airways

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
In the biggest union organizing election in private business in a decade, nearly 10,000 reservations takers, gate agents and ticket sellers at U S Airways have voted to join the Communications Workers of America, Federal labor officials announced yesterday.
The union won the support of the airline's passenger-service workers by following a strategy being embraced throughout labor -- emphasizing that corporate profits have rebounded while employee pay and benefits have languished. 
 Union leaders immediately hailed the victory, saying it showed that white-collar workers were fertile ground for labor's message and that the union movement's new focus on recruiting workers was paying off.
"The victory at U S Airways is very significant," said Kate Bronfenbrenner, director of labor education research at Cornell University. "It's not just because it involved so many workers, but it's the kind of workers that people questioned whether the labor movement could organize. These are white-collar workers in an industry where unions have really been struggling."
John J. Sweeney, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s president, and other labor leaders have looked to the U S Airways organizing drive as a bellwether to show whether labor was reversing its decline, especially in the private sector. Labor unions represent 14.5 percent of the overall work force, a sharp drop from 35 percent in the 1950's.
"The level of unionization has reached a 50-year low in this country, with unions representing just 10 percent of the private sector, compared with 40 percent in the public sector," said Kent Wong, director of the Center for Labor Research and Education at the University of California at Los Angeles. "The A.F.L.-C.I.O. has focused tremendous attention lately on organizing in the private sector, and they've been looking for a big win like this for some time. They want to show that unions can win in the private sector."
Nonetheless, union officials acknowledge that it will often be an uphill battle to unionize workers at many companies, especially when employers take such action as dismissing workers who head organizing drives.
In a statement, U S Airways said today that it would accept its legal obligations to recognize and bargain with the communications workers, while it appeals a mediator's decision that allowed the election. Richard Weintraub, a company spokesman declined further comment.
Union leaders cite the U S Airways drive as an example of labor's increased ability to succeed in complex organizing drives, in which thousands of workers are spread across many states -- the U S Airways workers are in 110 cities, from San Diego to Orlando, Fla., to New York.
Jeffrey Miller, a spokesman for the communications workers, said his union hoped to use the U S Airways victory as a springboard to unionize 14,000 passenger-service workers at United Air Lines. Industry officials estimate that there are 60,000 passenger-service workers in the airline industry who do not belong to unions. The only passenger-service workers who are organized are at Northwest Airlines and T.W.A.
U S Airways workers who voted for the union said they did so because they wanted a collective voice to represent them in dealing with a company that froze their wages and reduced their pensions and sick leave over the last four years while nursing itself back to financial health.
U S Airways lost more than $3 billion in the early 1990's but has been regaining ground recently in the strong United States economy. The airline, profitable for the last five quarters, had net income of $263 million in 1996.
The pilots union at the airline, meanwhile, was negotiating feverishly with the company yesterday in hopes of reaching a new contract. Article, Business Day, Page D1.
 Many of the airline's passenger-service workers have been especially unhappy that they have had to accept larger concessions than those agreed to by the airline's unionized pilots, mechanics and flight attendants.
In cutting costs to restore its profitability, U S Airways eliminated paid holidays and sick days for passenger-service workers, deducting their sick days from vacation time.
"The issue that really started this was all the other labor groups were represented and had a voice when the company hit a downturn," said Timothy Yost, a a Pittsburgh-based customer service agent. "But we were told we'd have to take worse concessions that the other labor groups. They were forced upon us. Having a union should put us on a level playing field."
Josie Esposito, a reservations agent in San Diego, also strongly backed the organizing campaign. "People are finally waking up to the fact that they need protection and that means a union," she said. "The company's stock has been going up, from $4 to over $40, and our wages haven't gone anywhere." Shares of the company rose 83 cents to $42.69 yesterday.
Because the U S Airways workers are covered by the Railway Labor Act, rather than the National Labor Relations Act, an absolute majority of all workers in the proposed bargaining unit must vote for unionization for the union to win the right to represent them.
Under the rules set by the National Mediation Board, which oversaw the election, only the 8,800 passenger-service workers hired before April 1996 were allowed to vote. But with the union's triumph, the communications workers will represent all 10,000 passenger-service workers.
In the election, in which ballots were mailed in and then counted yesterday, 4,773 workers, or 54 percent, voted to join the communications workers, while 77 voted for other unions.
Last January, the communications workers failed to organize the U S Airways workers because the union fell 280 votes short of a majority. But the National Mediation Board ordered a new election, finding that the company had made improper claims about how many changes could be wrought by an in-house employees committee set up by the company.
U S Airways said today that it would continue to appeal the board's decision to overturn the previous election. In fighting the union, U S Airways executives contended that they would be fair to all employee groups and would treat passenger-service workers as well as others. The company also argued that the workers could deal with the company more easily without a union.
Union officials said it was a daunting task to make sure that more than 50 percent of the workers cast ballots. At each of 110 sites, the union recruited what they called employee activists to oversee the drives.
The union also published a newsletter with articles saying that passenger-service workers had not received their fair share of the company's improved profits.
Richard Bensinger of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. said, "These are highly educated, white-collar workers, part of the information age, knowledge-based new economy. What's interesting is they were so supportive of the union. One woman there told me, they want to be players, not pawns."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA (CWA); US AIRWAYS GROUP INC U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (91%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%); AFL-CIO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA (CWA); US AIRWAYS GROUP INC CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%); AFL-CIO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WAGES AND SALARIES; UNIONIZATION; WHITE COLLAR WORKERS LABOR UNIONS (94%); AIRLINES (90%); TICKET SALES (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); DISMISSALS (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1997



594 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Offering a Glimpse of a 2d Term, Giuliani Vows a War on Drugs

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE 

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Sept. 29

 BODY:
In the first glimmer of a new policy he intends to pursue if re-elected, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani today promised a widespread effort to reduce drug use in New York City, outlining a three-part program that would focus on law enforcement, anti-drug education and increased treatment programs.
In a speech to a standing-room audience of students at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, the Mayor said that the problem of drug abuse has never been addressed in a comprehensive way, and threatens the gains the city has made in reducing crime. Between 60 and 70 percent of those charged with crimes in the city test positive for drugs, he said. 
 The Mayor did not provide many details of his plans, promising to do so in a few days. But he said the Police Department would step up its enforcement effort against drug dealers in an expansion of existing programs in northern Manhattan, the Bushwick section of Brooklyn and the South Bronx. At the same time, he said, the city would increase its drug treatment programs, and the school system would begin a comprehensive education program against drugs, he said.
Although the Mayor used the phrase "zero tolerance" to describe the new policy, he said he was not under the illusion that the city could wipe out drug use. Instead, he said, the city would try to reduce the sense of immunity possessed by many drug dealers and users, providing, for example, a tips line for citizens to report drug dealing.
"A society that has an increasing number of people becoming dependent in the most basic sense is a society that is deteriorating, and we have to face up to the problem of drugs, and we haven't done it as a society," he said. "But I believe we are now in a position to really do it, to take all the cynics and naysayers and people who say you can't substantially reduce it and do the same thing we did on reducing murder."
With only five weeks left before the election, Mr. Giuliani has until now said little about any new directions he intends to pursue if re-elected.The Mayor's aides have said he believes he can run successfully by stressing the accomplishments of his first term, and most of his speech tonight was devoted to praising what he and his administration have already done.
When future historians look back at New York at the turn of the millennium, he said, they will see a place where the fundamental needs of society were met, where the arts and culture flourished, where government was accountable, and where people lived free from fear.
"As the city becomes safer, what's happened to the spirit of the city is more people are becoming in a very real sense, free, becoming more independent," he said. "They're becoming free in society to make the choices they like to make about their lives, and that unleashes a really wonderful spirit about people having the sense they have control over their lives."
With the exception of the drug issue, Mr. Giuliani did not suggest that there were any significant remaining problems in New York, despite the city's high unemployment rate, continuing homeless population and an economy that relies heavily on the volatile financial sector. In mentioning jobs, for example, he cited only the city's growth in employment since the recession of the early 1990's, not its current 10 percent unemployment rate.
A group of student protesters was on hand, however, with written reminders of a few of the issues that still confront Mr. Giuliani. A few minutes into his speech, about five students stood and held posters protesting continued police brutality, crowded schools and the city's workfare program. Three students also held up toilet plungers, a reminder of the case of a Haitian immigrant who prosecutors say was abused by police officers. The Mayor jokingly said "welcome," but otherwise ignored the protesters.
Leland T. Jones, the chief spokesman for the campaign of Ruth W. Messinger, the Manhattan Borough President, said Mr. Giuliani's speech ignored many problems.
"When it comes to the notion of educational reform there is not a single solitary new idea here," Mr. Jones said. "When it comes to getting people who are unemployed back into employment there is not a single solitary new idea here. It is more just a selective rewriting of the past than it is an expansive vision of the future."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Students protesting at the start of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's speech yesterday at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government. (Kirsten Elstner for the New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; ELECTION ISSUES; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC SUBSTANCE ABUSE (91%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (91%); DRUG POLICY (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (77%); POLICE FORCES (73%); HISTORY (71%); DRUG TESTING (70%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (70%); 

PERSON: FIRESTONE, DAVID; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1997



595 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2774 words

HEADLINE: Testing Giant Exceeds Roots, Drawing Business Rivals' Ire

SERIES: THE TESTING EMPIRE: Second of two articles.

BYLINE: By JON NORDHEIMER and DOUGLAS FRANTZ 

 BODY:
The Educational Testing Service has the trappings of an affluent small college or an adjunct campus of nearby Princeton University in New Jersey. Its lush 360-acre property is dotted with low, tasteful brick buildings, tennis courts, a swimming pool, a private hotel and an impressive home where its president lives rent free. Employees are often referred to as faculty and one in five holds an advanced degree.
But the academic aura is deceptive. Over the last decade, the testing service has transformed itself from a small nonprofit educational institution into the world's largest testing company, administering nine million yearly examinations that help determine the future of millions of Americans and foreigners trying to get into good schools or professions. It has quietly grown into a multinational operation, complete with for-profit subsidiaries, a reserve fund of $91 million, and revenue last year of $411 million. 
 And along with that growth -- and its increasingly important place in American society -- have come new questions and criticism from inside and out.
As it celebrates its 50th anniversary this year, E.T.S. has come under fire not only for its failure to address increased incidents of cheating and fraud, but also for what its critics say is its transformation into a highly competitive business operation that is as much multinational monopoly as nonprofit institution, one capable of charging hefty fees, laying off workers and using sharp elbows in competing against rivals.
Yet as E.T.S. edges more toward an enormous, competitive company, it remains a nonprofit organization, a status that critics say gives the testing service unfair advantages. As a nonprofit, E.T.S. does not have to pay corporate income taxes, which saves it tens of millions of dollars, freeing up cash to hire workers and develop ever more sophisticated tests. Last year, E.T.S. also set up a for-profit subsidiary to compete directly with private businesses in the booming industry of professional licensing and government testing. What has also riled the critics is E.T.S.'s decision to break out of its academic mold and compete with private businesses by selling material that helps students prepare for the very tests it administers, using such advertising phrases as "We prepare the tests -- let us help prepare you."
Last November, one of the testing service's main nonprofit competitors, ACT Inc. of Iowa City, filed a Federal lawsuit contending that a multimillion dollar deal that E.T.S. has with Sylvan Learning Systems Inc., a for-profit company with headquarters in Baltimore, was part of an effort by Sylvan to violate antitrust law and monopolize the market in computerized testing, the wave of the future in the industry. Sylvan has denied the allegations.
E.T.S. was not named as a defendant, but the suit asserted that Sylvan had worked with the new for-profit subsidiary of E.T.S., the Chauncey Group International, to try to steal ACT customers.
The mounting criticism has rekindled an old debate about whether E.T.S. deserves its nonprofit status, which has exempted it from tens of millions of dollars in Federal income taxes, the same as a major foundation or charity.
"E.T.S. is standing on the cusp of deciding whether it is an education institution or a commercial institution," said Winton H. Manning, a former E.T.S. senior vice president who retired two years ago. "I'm disappointed in the direction they have taken away from education and public service."
Nancy S. Cole, the president of E.T.S., says the company is aware that its nonprofit status is a source of concern, particularly to outsiders, as the testing service increases its competition with for-profit businesses.
"We do constantly test ourselves with the basic question of what is the unique contribution of a nonprofit,"Mrs. Cole said. "There's still no for-profit competition for the basic admissions testing that we do, and really the bulk of our revenues come from areas in which there is not direct competition from for-profits."
Determining when a nonprofit organization crosses the line and should become a for-profit business is a subject of debate among both nonprofit organizations and government agencies. The Internal Revenue Service establishes restrictions on how much money a nonprofit group can take in from businesses unrelated to its public service mission. But often conflicts occur long before a nonprofit company reaches the ceiling, particularly when an organization goes in head-to-head competition with private businesses.
Yet, the competition with for-profit rivals is a trend that bedevils nonprofit institutions across the country.
"In our world," said Donald M. Stewart, president of the College Board, which is the testing company's biggest client and itself a nonprofit body, "when you go too far toward the business model, and E.T.S. has learned this the hard way, you begin to lose the kind of affinity and loyalty and sensitivity that comes from a public service operation. We are looking for a middle ground. How do we survive economically without losing our shirts or our values?"
 
The Long Fight
Feeling of Mission, Aura of Privilege
When the Educational Testing Service was started in 1947, its mission was clear. With World War II veterans swamping colleges and universities, the company was set up to develop and administer college entrance exams. The company's main rival today, ACT, is also a nonprofit organization, and there are many smaller commercial testing companies. But the testing service dominates college and graduate school admissions testing, delivering twice as many tests as ACT overall.
The company is best known for its flagship exam, the SAT, which it administers on behalf of the College Board, an organization of more than 3,000 schools and colleges. The testing service also administered 630,000 tests for graduate school admissions last year. About 180,000 teachers in 34 states took its certification exams, and 820,000 foreign students seeking admission to American schools demonstrated their English proficiency on its tests.
The service's for-profit subsidiary, the Chauncey Group, tested the skills of 1.5 million workers in 34 fields last year. An additional 1.2 million workers with native languages other than English submitted to its evaluation of their ability to communicate in English on the job in tests administered for their employers.
Critics have frequently said that the exams given by Educational Testing Service had a bias against minorities and women. The critics have also argued that too much emphasis is placed on standardized tests. But the creation of the Chauncey Group and other business moves by E.T.S. have revived a longstanding and less-publicized dispute.
"From the moment that E.T.S. opened for business, the for-profit publishers have been grumbling about it and asking why they get nonprofit status," said Nicholas Lemann, who is writing a book about meritocracy in America, which deals partly with the testing organization.
Nonprofit organizations usually exist to accomplish some charitable, humanitarian or educational purpose. To meet those public service goals, the organizations are in effect subsidized by taxpayers because they are exempt from paying some taxes.
E.T.S. qualified initially as a nonprofit group because its primary mission was educational: developing and administering tests to students on behalf of three nonprofit academic associations.
Under Federal tax regulations, a nonprofit group is exempt from corporate income taxes. But revenue earned from business activities that are not related to the organization's nonprofit purpose are subject to taxes.
Within the education world, the Educational Testing Service's nonprofit status also conveys a legitimacy not accorded commercial rivals.
Complaints from commercial competitors that E.T.S. had an unfair advantage grew so insistent in the late 1950's that the Internal Revenue Service conducted a three-year review of the organization's finances. In a 1962 letter, the tax agency agreed that the company was a legitimate nonprofit organization because its primary goal remained educational. To safeguard its status, E.T.S. later hired Mortimer Caplin, a former I.R.S. Commissioner, as one of its Washington lawyers.
The new round of criticism was touched off by the creation of the Chauncey Group and by the parent organization's own expanding sales of promotional material to teach students how to take its tests and to advise parents and students on the college admissions process.
"For years, E.T.S. scoffed at test preparation and now they are marketing their own line of products," said Andrew S. Rosen, the chief operating officer of Kaplan Educational Centers, a subsidiary of the Washington Post Company and a leading test preparation company. "I'm not sure why the taxpayer needs to subsidize another player in these industries."
 
The Change
Getting Bigger, Growing Aggressive
In its early decades, E.T.S. cultivated the atmosphere of a university. Debate was encouraged and job security was similar to the tenure enjoyed by college faculty members. But as the organization grew, the tenor became far more corporate.
The turning point came in 1993. Faced with the loss of a major Government contract, the organization laid off 250 people, roughly 8 percent of its staff of about 3,000, and cut benefits for those who remained. The steps were no harsher than those taken by many businesses, but the testing service's employees, accustomed to a more genteel workplace, were stunned.
"The atmosphere changed after that," said Robert Altman, who retired a year later as a vice president. "People were no longer able to feel secure. There had been a threat, and the threat was carried out."
At the time of the layoffs, the company was investing heavily to develop the next generation of tests, a key to future growth.
Software to replace paper-and-pencil tests with computerized versions has existed for many years. But E.T.S. held off because offering computerized tests meant offering testing centers with computers, which it did not have.
In 1993, the testing service signed an agreement with Sylvan, which specialized in tutoring young students at franchised centers, many of which have computers. The agreement made Sylvan the exclusive provider of computerized tests developed by the Educational Testing Service. The projected revenue allowed Sylvan to expand its computer centers. In exchange, Sylvan agreed not to do business on computerized tests with E.T.S. competitors, either for-profit or nonprofit. The deal gave the world's biggest testing service access to the largest network of computer-test centers.
Then, the nonprofit organization invested in Sylvan stock and Mrs. Cole joined Sylvan's board of directors.
With a computer network in place, the testing organization began in November 1993 to phase in a computer-based version of the Graduate Record Examinations, the standard test for admission to graduate schools. The next April, the licensing exam for nurses was switched completely to computer, bringing 200,000 customers a year to Sylvan centers.
The new business sent Sylvan's stock on a steady climb. E.T.S.'s initial investment of $1.5 million, which Mrs. Cole called a token, is now worth more than $16 million. Some present and former employees of the testing company said they regard the investment as a conflict, but Mrs. Cole said that the only complaint she had heard was concern that E.T.S. had become too dependent on Sylvan for its computer-based testing business.
In the eyes of some competitors, the arrangement was too successful. Last November, ACT filed suit in Federal District Court in Iowa City, contending that Sylvan was trying to create a monopoly and was working with the Chauncey Group to steal ACT customers.
In one instance, the suit contended, Chauncey and Sylvan sales representatives called on a professional organization that sponsored a licensing test administered by ACT and said that ACT had no future in computerized testing. The representatives also said that if the professional group wanted access to Sylvan's computers, the suit contended, the organization would have to switch to Chauncey to develop a new test because Sylvan would not work with ACT.
"These statements were made with the intention of diverting the test sponsor's test development business from ACT to Chauncey," the suit said, "and of inducing the test sponsor to contract with Sylvan rather than ACT for the provision of computer-based testing."
Robert A. Burgoyne, ACT's lawyer, said the company would seek damages of $100 million from Sylvan when the case goes to trial.
Sylvan has denied the allegations in court papers. Officials of E.T.S. and Chauncey declined to comment in detail because the records of the companies have been subpoenaed. But Mrs. Cole said Sylvan's actions were nothing more than an effort to protect its market.
 
The Future
Going Beyond Educational Testing
The Chauncey Group International was established as a profit-making subsidiary of E.T.S. on Jan. 1, 1996, to expand its parent's market share in developing and administering licensing and certification tests for professional organizations and exams for various Government entities.
Named after Henry Chauncey, the founder of the testing service, the organization started with about 100 employees and $20 million in assets, mostly in the form of existing test accounts, from its parent.
Nonprofit organizations create for-profit subsidiaries for a variety of business reasons. Sometimes the parent organization is generating too much income from businesses that are unrelated to its nonprofit purpose, jeopardizing its tax-exempt status. On other occasions, a nonprofit may set up a for-profit subsidiary to go after business unrelated to its central purpose.
"More often than not," said William Lehrfeld, a tax lawyer in Washington, "nonprofits will find ways in which they can reach into business opportunities using the aura or halo that may have developed from their ongoing nonprofit activities."
While the Educational Testing Service dominates admissions testing, the fast-growing marketplace for licensing and certification tests for private industry is more fragmented, with a large number of smaller companies competing for supremacy.
Chauncey has yet to show a profit, and officials there say it was set up to create a smaller, more responsive operation to handle the for-profit activities in which the parent had been engaged for many years. "We needed an operating environment that would enable us to serve our Government and business customers in a more flexible way," said Alice Irby, the president of Chauncey and a former E.T.S. executive.
One of the customers that Chauncey inherited from E.T.S. was the National Council of Architectural Registration Boards, an association of state agencies that licenses architects in the United States and Canada. Educational Testing Service had been the group's test consultant for 30 years and, beginning in 1990, it had worked on developing a computer-based test for architects.
When the test was unveiled last year, its computer simulations were praised, but some people were surprised by the cost, which doubled to $980 from $485.
Because computerized tests cost more to develop and administer, they are often much more expensive. A pilot version of a computerized SAT last year cost $75, roughly four times the amount of a paper test. But few increases have matched the fee for the architects' test.
Internal records from the architects' council show that the bulk of the fee goes to the Chauncey Group. The architects' council receives $427 of the $980, with the remaining $553 going to Chauncey for its expenses in administering the tests. The council pays Chauncey another $212 out of its $427 to cover development of new questions and administrative matters, bringing the total to $765 for each of the 3,000 or more tests expected to be administered each year. About 40 percent of Chauncey's revenue is paid to Sylvan for computer time in giving the tests, Chauncey officials said.
The high test cost angered Jessica Farrar, a Houston architect. Because she also happens to be a member of the Texas Legislature, Ms. Farrar mustered support for a state inquiry into the high fees.
"What we're finding is that they are pricing people out of their own profession," Ms. Farrar said. "A doctor in Texas pays $810, and a lawyer pays $275. Here are architects, who earn much less, paying more."

GRAPHIC: Photo: With lush surroundings, the Educational Testing Service still has an academic aura. But over the last decade, E.T.S. transformed itself from a small nonprofit educational institution into the world's largest testing company, drawing criticism from inside and out. (Linda Rosier for The New York Times)(pg. A24)
 
Chart: "E.T.S.'s Test Roster"
Educational Testing Service administers over nine million tests in the United States and 180 foreign countries every year. Here are E.T.S.'s largest exams during the 1995-96 school year.
 
SAT I: Reasoning Test -- 2,047,000 TESTS TAKEN
 
Preliminary SAT -- 1,738,000
 
National Merit Scholarship Qualifying Test
 
Workplace Assessments -- 1,500,000
 
In 34 different fields*
 
Test of English for International Communication* -- 1,238,000
 
Test of English as a Foreign Language -- 820,000
 
Advanced Placement Program -- 540,000
 
Graduate Record Examinations General Test -- 393,000
 
SAT II: Subject Tests -- 372,000
 
National Assessment of Educational Progress -- 260,000
 
Graduate Management Admission Test -- 230,000
 
The Praxis Series: Professional Assessments for Beginning Teachers and Pre-Professional Skills Test -- 181,000
 
*Administered by the Chauncey Group International, a subsidiary of Educational Testing Services
(Source: Educational Testing Service)(pg. A24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

TICKER: LAUR (NASDAQ) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (93%); NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (61%); NAICS611430 PROFESSIONAL & MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT TRAINING (61%); SIC8299 SCHOOLS & EDUCATIONAL SERVICES, NEC (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (57%); 

COMPANY: EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICE EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICE (93%); ACT INC (62%); LAUREATE EDUCATION INC (61%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICE PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (57%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; CHEATING; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; TESTS AND TESTING; NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS LAYOFFS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (87%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); LITIGATION (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (74%); TENNIS (72%); SPORTS (72%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); CORPORATE TAX (63%); INCOME TAX (50%); 

PERSON: NORDHEIMER, JON; FRANTZ, DOUGLAS

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1997



596 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: NEW REPORTS SAY MINORITIES BENEFIT IN FISCAL RECOVERY

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 29

 BODY:
Brightening economic fortunes are increasingly extending to racial and ethnic minorities and reaching farther down the economic ladder as the nation's recovery moves briskly through its sixth year, several reports released today indicate.
The reports -- income and poverty studies issued today by the Census Bureau and a report on home ownership released by Harvard University -- indicate that in the last three years, the economic prospects for nearly all households have risen and that the gains among minorities have in some cases reached unprecedented levels. 
 Seizing on the generally good news in today's reports of small increases in median income for American households, President Clinton took credit for the spreading prosperity and said it validated his economic policies. "After years and years of stagnant family incomes, today's report proves that America's middle class, no longer forgotten, is rising fast," he told reporters.
Bolstering this view, the Census Bureau reported that for the second year in a row, median household income increased in 1996, rising 1.2 percent, to $35,492. This was only the second time since 1989 -- just before the last recession -- that the median income did not fall or remain stagnant. The increase appeared to be based almost solely on income gains in the South.
Though minorities made strong gains, the increase in income across the board was relatively anemic, especially considering the healthy state of the economy. In fact, incomes for men with full-time jobs decreased by 0.9 percent last year.
Some experts attribute this to businesses' continuing to hold down wages and workers, fearful of their jobs, declining to aggressively address wage demands.
The study also noted that the median income for full-time working women was 74 percent of that for men last year, the smallest earnings gap ever recorded between the sexes by the Census Bureau. But the shrinking gap reflects more the decline of men's wages than an improvement of women's incomes. Recently, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that the income gap between men and women had in fact widened. But the bureau study looked at all workers, including temporary workers. In contrast, the Census Bureau looked only at full-time year-round employees.
The Census Bureau reports also contained some gloomy news. While the growth in income for the richest 20 percent outpaced all other groups, the poorest 20 percent of the country's households had an income drop of 1.8 percent last year. And 500,000 more people, compared with the previous year, were living on incomes that were less than half the official poverty level in 1996.
The overall picture, however, showed improving fortunes for minorities almost across the board, evidence that economists say points to the benefits that a robust economy is extending to more groups of people.
In the last three years, virtually all groups -- non-Hispanic whites, blacks, Hispanics and Asian-Americans -- have seen their median incomes rise and their poverty rates drop. The Census Bureau reported that last year, 28.4 percent of black households were below the poverty line; that was the lowest proportion of blacks living in poverty since the Census Bureau began keeping tabs in 1955 and is undoubtedly the lowest black poverty rate in the country's history. A family of four making $16,036 in 1996 dollars is considered to be living at the poverty level.
Although the median income for blacks and Hispanics continued to trail that of non-Hispanic whites last year, black men working full time narrowed a gap to earn 80 percent of the income of non-Hispanic white men, the smallest income gap between these two groups in 30 years.
Median income is the exact midpoint in the income scale for any group. Half of the group's members earn less than the median and half earn more. The median is considered a more reliable measure than the mean, or average, income, which can be swayed by the gargantuan earnings of a relative few, giving a distorted view of a group's economic circumstances.
The Census Bureau's annual report was released on the same day as a Harvard study showing that economic gains by minorities helped fuel the country's residential real estate boom from 1993 through 1996.
Demographers had predicted that the housing construction surge would slow in the 1990's as the baby-boom generation settled into more or less permanent housing. Instead, the number of homeowners grew by 3.4 million households in the period studied, with minority homeowners making up 29 percent of the increase.
"The good economy is seeping down," said William Apgar, executive director of Harvard's Joint Center for Housing Studies. "Fair lending practices are starting to happen. People -- Realtors, lenders, home builders -- are beginning to see that there is a minority market that can afford reasonably good housing."
Some economists say blacks and other minorities are sharing more in the current recovery than they did in previous economic booms because on average, African-Americans tend to be better educated and possess more skills than in previous years. In addition, minorities are outpacing their gains from the 1980's because that period was marked by severe retrenchment in the manufacturing sector, where black workers tended to be concentrated.
But some found reasons to criticize the Administration.
"For a year of strong economic growth, this is quite a disappointing report," said Robert Greenstein, executive director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal research and advocacy group. "Poverty failed to decline. Average income of the poorest fifth of families fell."
Today's Census Bureau reports underscore the economic progress that many minorities are making. In recent years, a number of measures of prosperity have pointed to improvements in the overall quality of life for blacks, still the country's biggest minority.
The last three years have shown growth in the median income for virtually every type of black family.
Hispanic households had a dramatic increase of 5.8 percent in median income -- the largest of any group -- which is a reversal of last year's decline of 5.1 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "KEEPING TRACK: The Richest Getting Richer, the Poorest Getting Poorer"
The growth in income for the richest 20 percent of the country's households outpaced all other groups, while the poorest 20 percent saw their income drop. Graphs show share of aggregate income received by each fifth of the households from 1967 to 1996. (Source: Bureau of the Census)(pg. A26)
 
"Gaining Ground"
Americans are regaining the income lost in the recession. Graph shows median houshold income, by race, from 1990 to 1996. (Source: Bureau of the Census)(pg. A1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY; CENSUS BUREAU HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%); US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY; CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); STANDARD OF LIVING; FORECASTS; BLACKS CENSUS (91%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (91%); ETHNICITY (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); RECESSION (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); WOMEN (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); POVERTY RATES (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); EQUAL PAY (69%); STATISTICS (67%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HOLMES, STEVEN A BILL CLINTON (71%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1997



597 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13
 
France Makes Oil Deal Despite U.S. Concerns
Delighted at a $2 billion contract signed between a French oil company and Iran, Prime Minister Lionel Jospin of France rejected an American law that claims the power to impose sanctions even on non-American companies investing more than $40 million in Iran or Libya. A1 

Scientists Find Disease Link
Scientists in Scotland say they have found "compelling evidence" that the "mad cow" disease responsible for the death of thousands of cattle in Britain is in no way distinct from a disease that has killed 14 people. Not only does their evidence suggest that bovine spongiform encephalopathy is a variant of Creutzfeld Jacob disease, but the new experiment suggested that a virus-like particle or co-factor is involved in the disease, unfortunately removing doubts about human susceptibility to infection from bovine products. A6
 
Diana Was Source in Biography
The main source for details of the Princess of Wales's unhappy marriage to Prince Charles and her troubled relations with the royal family as told in the 1992 book "Diana, Her True Story," was Diana herself, the author confirmed in the preface to a newly published edition. Diana denied she had been a source for the book when it was first published. A7
 
Mideast Talks Set to Resume
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright announced that Israel and the Palestinians have agreed to resume committee talks that broke down more than six months ago. The two sides agreed to meet on Oct. 6 to begin discussions on issues such as transit arrangements between Gaza and the West Bank. A6
 
15 Killed at Algerian School
Eight suspected Muslim militants attacked a village school in Algeria, shooting or slashing to death 11 female teachers as students watched. Four other people were also killed, witnesses said. The attackers, who were disguised in various uniforms, used the rallying cry of the Armed Islamic Group, which has been waging a campaign of killings aimed at destabilizing the Government. A5
 
30 Die in Chilean Asylum Fire
A fire at a Chilean home for mentally retarded children and adults killed 30 of its most handicapped residents when the flaming roof collapsed on their beds, officials said. Firefighters thought the blaze was sparked by an electrical problem. A8
 
2,700 Claims Sent to Swiss
More than 2,700 claims have been sent in by individuals who say they may be beneficiaries of Nazi-era Swiss bank accounts untouched since May 1945, the Swiss Bankers Association said. The names of almost 2,000 foreigners, including Holocaust victims linked to accounts opened in Switzerland before and during World War II, were released worldwide in July by the bankers' group in an effort to track down the rightful owners of the dormant accounts. (Agence France-Presse)
 
NATIONAL A14-27
 
10,000 Airline Workers Vote to Join Labor Union
Nearly 10,000 reservations takers, gate agents and ticket sellers at US Airways have voted to join the Communications Workers of America in the biggest union organizing election in the private sector in a decade, Federal labor officials said. The union won the support of workers by emphasizing that corporate profits have rebounded while employee pay and benefits have languished. A1
 
Recovery Reaches More in U.S.
Brightening economic fortunes are spreading to more Americans, extending increasingly to racial and ethnic minorities and reaching farther down the economic ladder as the nation's economic recovery moves briskly through its sixth year, a number of reports indicate. A1
 
Amendment Threatens Bill
Senator Trent Lott, the majority leader, proposed amending the main bipartisan campaign-finance legislation in Congress with a provision that Democrats immediately denounced as a ploy to kill the bill. The provision, which would prohibit unions from deducting dues or fees from the paychecks of union and nonunion workers for political activities without their permission, is strongly opposed by the A.F.L.-C.I.O. A22
 
I.R.S. Proposal Criticized
Gene Sperling, the White House's economic policy director, criticized a Congressional proposal to revamp oversight of the Internal Revenue Service, saying that the plan would create new problems rather than preventing incidents in which tax-collection agents harass taxpayers. A26
 
Experts Address Heroin Use
The Government brought together more than 500 drug experts from around the country to discuss the scope of the nation's heroin problem and how to deal with it. The two-day conference involves medical researchers and specialists in law enforcement, public policy and drug treatment and prevention. A27
 
Teamster Overseer Appointed
A Federal judge appointed a new overseer to decide whether Ron Carey, the teamsters' president, should be disqualified from a rerun election against James P. Hoffa. A26
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
School Condom Program Seen as Effective in Study
A study says that making condoms accessible to high school students through AIDS education programs does not increase the students' rates of sexual activity, but does increase condom use. The study compared the rates of condom use and sexual activity for thousands of high school students in New York City schools, which offer condoms, and students in Chicago, where H.I.V. and AIDS education is provided but condoms are not made available. A1
 
Ross to Switch Parties
Lieut. Gov. Betsy McCaughey Ross, whose career was left in jeopardy after Gov. Pataki barred her from running with him for re-election, said she will leave the Republican Party and become a Democrat. B1
 
Court to Hear Ellis Island Case
The Supreme Court said it would hear arguments on the dispute between New York and New Jersey over control of Ellis Island. B1
 
SCIENCE TIMES F1-8
 
HEALTH F9
 
ARTS E1-8
 
A New TV Ratings Alphabet
television networks are adding the labels D, L, S and V -- for suggestive dialogue, coarse language, sex and violence -- to the existing labels of TV-G, TV-PG, TV-14 and TV-MA. Many advocacy groups favor more detailed labels, but others say the system is bewildering. E1
 
FASHION A28
 
EDITORIAL A30-31
 
Editorials: Mr. Clinton speaks up for judges; limiting speech in subways; Philip M. Boffey on Botswana's endangered wildlife.
 
Columns: Russell Baker.
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-24
 
Nurses Grow Into New Role
A growing number of nurses are taking charge of patients without the immediate supervision of doctors, a practice endorsed by more and more private insurers as well as Medicare and Medicaid. Perhaps not surprisingly, the medical establishment, and many doctors, vehemently oppose the idea. A1
 
Small Stocks Beat Index Funds
Mutual funds that invest in the stocks of smaller, faster growing companies have set the pace in the industry since the end of April, leaving behind index funds which track the biggest blue-chip companies. Overall, the third quarter will end with roughly four out of every five mutual funds that invest in American stocks having beaten the Standard & Poor's 500 index. D1
 
US Airways Faces Deadline
US Airways and its pilots negotiated feverishly in hope of reaching a new contract in time for the airline to meet a deadline today to confirm an order for as many as 400 jets from Airbus Industrie. D1
 
Business Digest D1
 
SPORTS C1-8
 
OBITUARIES B7-8
 
Roy Lichtenstein
The master of Pop painting and a major figure in American art since he began scavenging comic strips like "Winnie Winkle," "G.I. Combat" and "Secret Hearts" was 73. A1
 
Chess F8
 
Crossword E8
 
Chronicle B4
 
Weather C9

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SCOTLAND (92%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ALGERIA (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (51%); 

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SCOTLAND (92%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ALGERIA (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (51%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EYEWITNESSES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); EVIDENCE (76%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); WRITERS (72%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); FAMILY (72%); WOMEN WORKERS (71%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (71%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (70%); HOLOCAUST (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); CHILDREN (68%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (68%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (67%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (65%); MENTAL RETARDATION (65%); RELIGION (63%); WORLD WAR II (60%); MENTAL RETARDATION FACILITIES (60%); DISABLED PERSONS (60%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (56%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (50%); 

PERSON: PRINCE CHARLES (56%); PRINCESS DIANA (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1997



598 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Two-Edged Sanctions Sword

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 30

 BODY:
The issue of how to use economic sanctions as a weapon of foreign policy has bedeviled and divided the Clinton Administration during the last five years. But the case facing the White House now -- whether to punish companies with Government links in France, Russia and Malaysia for their $2 billion investment in Iran -- is filled with particularly agonizing choices for the White House.
There is no easy way, Administration officials conceded today, to enforce the anti-terrorism law that Mr. Clinton signed last year without alienating America's key allies, just at the moment he is trying to get their cooperation on a common policy toward Iran and other rogue states. Yet the failure to use the law, in its first test case, could make the White House look weak when its sanctions policy has been confused at best. 
 If Mr. Clinton imposes the toughest sanctions available -- a threat the State Department and the White House carefully avoided making today -- Mr. Clinton will re-open the battle with the European Union that began over American penalties against foreign companies that use formerly American property in Cuba.
But this time the repercussions will be far greater. In addition to the French, who are longtime adversaries on how to deal with Iran, the President would have to act against the two other major companies in the transaction. One of them, Gazprom, is the most powerful corporation in Russia, once headed by the Russian Prime Minister, Viktor S. Chernomyrdin. He is still thought to be a major shareholder in the company.
The other company is Petronas, Malaysia's state-dominated energy enterprise. Only last week, Malaysia's Prime Minister, Mahathir Mohamad, accused the United States and other great powers of using economic muscle to undercut his nation's currency and keep it from becoming a major economic competitor. Clearly, it would not ruin Mr. Mahathir's day to defy America's foreign policy goals in relation to Iran.
If, on the other hand, the President seeks the diplomatic way out, imposing light sanctions or none at all, he runs the risk of undercutting his own commitment to use all powers available to him to fight state-sponsored terrorism. His declarations about getting the world community together on the issue could ring hollow.
"It would send a message," said one of Mr. Clinton's advisers, who is pushing the Administration to take a tough line "that we will jaw-bone about terrorism, but we're not willing to go to the mat with our trading partners about it."
The State Department and its Under Secretary for Economic Affairs, Stuart E. Eizenstat, have spent much of the last year trying to deflect such choices by tamping down disputes over Washington's right to impose such sanctions. This spring, Mr. Eizenstat defused, at least temporarily, the argument with the European Union and Canada over invoking the Helms-Burton Act, which requires the United States to punish foreign companies that use what was once American property in Cuba.
The Europeans were on the verge of challenging the American law in front of the World Trade Organization, where many outside experts guess the United States might well lose. Under a deal brokered last spring, that case was deferred until at least Oct. 15 while the two sides try to work out a face-saving compromise, one that the Europeans say must include a way to keep the United States from extra-territorial applications of its law.
Cuba, however, was a case where big principles were at stake, not big money. In Iran, both principle and huge potential profits are in the mix, and that changes the politics considerably.
All three of the countries taking part in the deal with Iran see it as an opportunity to gain access to a huge undersea gas field without having to compete with American energy companies, which have all been barred from involvement since 1995, when President Clinton forced Conoco, Inc. to back away from a major oil deal with the Iranian Government.
Last year Congress passed the Iran-Libya Sanctions Act. The law provides the Secretary of State and the President with choices ranging from waiving all sanctions to imposing relatively minor penalties to barring the offending companies from trading with the United States.
Today, the State Department spokesman, James Rubin, and the White House spokesman, Michael D. McCurry, gave no hint of what choice Mr. Clinton may make. A senior State Department official said "this could still take several weeks," because "if we are going to be in the position of issuing sanctions, we want to be sure of our facts," adding, "And it is not as if any of the signatories in this deal are likely to send us a copy of the contract."
To bridge the gap, the State Department will undoubtedly talk about how France and the United States are committed to a common goal: fighting terrorism. They simply have different strategic approaches, one arguing for economic isolation of Iran, the other for economic engagement. The American position is not aided by the appearance of inconsistency. In the cases of Mexico and China, it has argued that the best way to get a country to crack down on drug dealers, for example, or let up on dissidents, is to keep doing business there. In the cases of Cuba and Myanmar, formerly Burma, it has argued that America's economic power should be used to cut off investment until the offending government changes its behavior.
The French, at least, are clearly eager use this case to make the point that Washington is free to use its economic muscle to force its own companies to comply with American foreign policy, but that power cannot extend across its borders.
"Nobody accepts that the United States can pass a law on a global scale," Lionel Jospin, France's Prime Minister, said today. "If not, the world would be a different place, and we would no longer be the old independent nation that we are."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (66%); GAZP (RTS) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (66%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (66%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (66%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (66%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (66%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); MALAYSIA (94%); FRANCE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); CUBA (79%); 

COMPANY: TOTAL SA PETROLIAM NASIONAL BHD (66%); OAO GAZPROM (66%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOTAL SA EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN; FRANCE; UNITED STATES (97%); MALAYSIA (94%); FRANCE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); CUBA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GAS (FUEL); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; FRANCE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); TERRORISM (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%); CURRENCIES (62%); SHAREHOLDERS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1997



599 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: Iraq and Iran Tempt World Energy Industry

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM 

DATELINE: LONDON, Sept. 29

 BODY:
On any evening in the last three years, a visitor to Baghdad, Iraq's capital, could spot senior officials of the French oil company, Total S.A., in the lounge of the plush Al-Rasheed Hotel where they have permanent suites.
Similarly, all around Teheran, French oil experts can be encountered in the luxurious restaurants of Shemiran, the northern suburb of the Iranian capital where the air is clearer and where oil companies of every nationality keep their executives in villas equipped with swimming pools. 
 "How can any major oil company in the world ignore Iran or Iraq?" asked Walid Khadduri, executive editor of the Cyprus-based Middle East Economic Survey, a prestigious energy newsletter, in a telephone interview tonight. "Iran has the second-largest gas reserves after Russia. Iraq is sitting atop the second largest oil reserves in the world after Saudi Arabia."
"Oil companies are in the business of exploring, finding, producing and buying oil and gas," Mr. Khadduri said, referring to the major national gas deal Total signed with Iran on Sunday. "It is their raison d'etre. From an oil company point of view, maintaining a relationship with these two giants is basic strategy, not to mention common sense."
France's $2 billion agreement with the National Iranian Oil Company to produce 2 billion cubic feet of natural gas from the South Pars field has been in the making for some years, oil industry officials said tonight, despite the United States' so-called "dual containment" strategy, which is intended to isolate the two countries and quash their main source of revenue: Selling oil and gas.
Indeed, the announcement of the huge deal has raised questions as to whether Washington's policy of economic sanctions to isolate countries like Iraq, Iran, Libya, Cuba and others has been effective beyond preventing American companies from tapping those countries' resources while competitors, mostly from Europe and Asia, help themselves.
Oil industry experts say even though the world, at the moment, is sufficiently supplied with oil, the demand curve in the future is rising, indicating that sooner, rather than later, a new global shortage is likely. This is especially so as large, churning economies like those of China and India continue to expand, implying greater consumption of electricity, new cars on the roads and higher standards of living with more home appliances consuming more energy. It is this knowledge that drives oil companies to forge ties with giants like Iran and Iraq.
Indeed, Total announced today that it was on the verge of signing an oil production agreement with Iraq to exploit the giant Nahr Umar oil field in the south, as soon as "the United Nations lifts the embargo" imposed on the country after it invaded Kuwait in 1990. At last count, Mr. Khadduri pointed out, "Sixty companies are negotiating oil deals with Iraq at the moment," all to be executed when the embargo is lifted.
Last year and this year, Russia and China signed deals to tap Iraqi oil fields, with few objections by the United States, presumably because both said they would respect the United Nations embargo. Russia will develop the West Qurna oil field, Iraq's largest oil pool. China will concentrate on the Ahdab field near Kut, also in oil-rich southern Iraq.
But signing a deal means that experts are working on the fields even if production does not physically begin. It also means investments flowing into the country in hard currency along with equipment and employment opportunities.
The principal lure of Iraq, experts point out, is that it possesses 110 billion barrels of proven oil reserves. That puts it right behind Saudi Arabia. Similarly, oil companies have been swarming all over Iran.
After the Clinton Administration forced the Conoco oil company to cancel a huge deal with Iran 3 years ago over developing the Sirri oil and gas field, Total took it over. Companies from Italy, Germany, Austria, Japan and other Asian countries are most active in Iran, driven by the recognition that its gas reserves are needed by many of its neighbors, including Turkey, Pakistan, India and eventually, Europe, which at the moment depends on Algerian, Russian, Norwegian and Dutch gas but is interested in diversifying its sources.
All of which leaves the American strategy of "dual containment" against Iraq and Iran -- in addition to the pressure exerted against Libya, another energy supplier -- appear to be increasingly ineffective.
As more countries, including allies of the United States, perceive economic sanctions as punishing them, it has become obvious in the last three years that American dictates have little resonance, particularly because they run counter to globalization of the world economy, a concept also promoted by Washington.
"The thing about this containment policy is that it is slipping everywhere," said Mehdi Verzi, senior oil analyst for Kleinwort Benson, the London investment concern, in an interview tonight. "You cannot ignore a country like Iran with 60 million people and three times the proven gas reserves of the United States itself," Mr. Verzi said. "The sheer economic logic of using Iran as a transit route by its neighbors to transport oil and gas is overcoming political obstacles caused by U.S. sanctions legislation," he added.
Oil industry officials interviewed tonight said there are probably as many oil companies negotiating with Iran now as there are talking with Iraq. One senior official in a major oil company who insisted on anonymity said companies talking with Iran "will not reveal themselves" in order not to provoke Washington. "But you can be sure they are talking and dealing," he asserted. Those dealing with Iraq, including Total, admit it, but say that they will only start producing once United Nations sanctions are lifted.

GRAPHIC: Map of the Persian Gulf showing the locations of South Pars and Sirri: France has joined Russia and China in developing new oil fields.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TTA (LSE) (91%); TOT (NYSE) (91%); TOT (BIT) (91%); FP (PAR) (91%); FP (BRU) (91%); ALMUDON (KUW) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (91%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (91%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%); 

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); FRANCE (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); CHINA (92%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); CYPRUS (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); GULF STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); IRAN (73%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%); 

COMPANY: TOTAL SA TOTAL SA (91%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOTAL SA

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN; IRAN; FRANCE; IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); FRANCE (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); CHINA (92%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); CYPRUS (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); GULF STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); IRAN (73%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%); 

SUBJECT: GAS (FUEL); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (93%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (88%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); INTERVIEWS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); TERRORISM (59%); 

PERSON: IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1997



600 of 605 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: The Place for the Aspiring Dot Com;
Internet Industry's Most Popular Address Is Manhattan

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON 

 BODY:
The stereotyped symbol of New York City's Internet industry is an ultracool, twenty-something cyberhead with a tattoo and a skateboard, plotting the overthrow of Microsoft from a fifth-floor walk-up on East 10th Street.
The reality looks more like Benjamin Colas. Mr. Colas, a 24-year-old advertising executive who favors open-neck white shirts and dark slacks ("casual but elegant," as he put it), helped create a new home page on the Internet's World Wide Web for Tide detergent. From his 13th-floor office at Saatchi & Saatchi Advertising Worldwide in Manhattan, he plots the overthrow of Fab and Wisk. 
 For New York, selling soap in cyberspace may be only the beginning.
The city is emerging, communications experts say, as one of the national centers of the rapidly evolving Internet industry -- not because of what is new or on its way, but because of what is already here. A lot of the style of this new industry, dubbed Silicon Alley, may be new, but the muscle behind it is not. Established New York industries, especially advertising, publishing, fashion and design -- all based on communication and presentation -- are now leading much of the expansion of the new technologies, creating a potential for thousands of new jobs for the city into the next century.
Mr. Colas, for example, is the managing director of a new Saatchi & Saatchi subsidiary called Darwin Digital that was formed in July to help clients like Procter & Gamble, the Cincinnati-based company that makes Tide, exploit the Internet. Darwin's start-up staff of 6 has quadrupled to 25. Barnes & Noble has more than 100 employees in New York working specifically on the corporate Web site it launched this spring; almost all of them are editors and writers supplying things like book reviews, what in the jargon of the Web is called content. The jewelry store Van Cleef & Arpels, on the other hand, finds that one employee working part time on its Web site is sufficient. Small World Software, a Manhattan-based company that creates and runs corporate Web sites, has grown to 25 employees from 3 in three years.
"People ask us why we set up shop in New York," said Mark Jacobstein, a founder of Small World. "The answer, beyond the fact that we love living here and this is where the talent is, is that this is where the clients are."
A recent study by New York University said that New York has also charged ahead faster than any other city in the nation in embracing computer communications as a tool of business. The study found that at the beginning of the year, New York had more than 17,000 registered commercial and nonprofit Internet "domains," twice as many as its nearest rival, San Francisco, and 4.2 percent of the national total. San Francisco has the most addresses per capita, with New York second. Domains are essentially networks of Web pages and E-mail routing systems.
The study said that while New York shows few signs of supplanting the San Francisco Bay Area as the national center for technical innovation or programming, New York's potential niche nonetheless remains vast. Its publishing and design industries can take the lead as suppliers of content; its advertising industry, as a creator of commercial sales techniques.
"What it says is that this city has more to gain from the Web than other places," said Mitchell L. Moss, an author of the study and the director of the university's Taub Urban Research Center, which conducted it.
That a new industrial sector could grow up in one place, serving a disembodied cyberspace realm that glories in existing nowhere at all, is just one paradox posed by the Internet industry in New York. Another is that many of the jobs being generated by the marriage of computers and commerce have little or nothing to do with traditional computer work, like the development of hardware and software, and so are not being counted as such by economists or local and state governments.
Officials at the New York State Department of Labor said they cannot tell how many people work in the Internet content business because no industrial classification exists for them. The numbers of traditional computer and data processing workers in New York City has certainly grown, up more than 86 percent over the last five years, according to state figures, to about 28,000 at the end of last year. But that increase has also been fueled by hiring in other industries, especially securities firms, as Wall Street has become more computer-driven.
Mr. Jacobstein said the more important trend for the city is that many of the new jobs he sees being created do not involve the technical running of corporate Web sites, but rather keeping them stocked with new material. Corporations are increasingly realizing, he said, that Web sites and domains are not billboards that are created once and forgotten -- common in the earlier stages of the Web -- but continuing enterprises that need constant updating and links to the outside world, especially to advertising. That means, he said, the industry is increasingly requiring a whole nexus of talents and industries different from those it began with. Technology, it seems, is just the starting place.
Darwin Digital, the Saatchi & Saatchi unit, for example, has also helped Procter & Gamble launch a joint venture with Time Warner at the address Parenttime.com. The project merges the media company's child-care magazine division with an integrated advertising package supplied by Procter & Gamble -- all created and run from New York. The company also helped create a new network for children's games on the Internet. The sponsor, General Mills, the cereal company based in Minneapolis, came to New York to make it work.
There is little evidence that New York is becoming any kind of national center for computer operations, the technical side of the industry. With the global reach of telecommunications, an Internet domain registered in New York can be operated by computers -- called Web servers -- almost anywhere on the planet. Of the 10,500 domains that were running this summer in the 10 Manhattan ZIP codes with the highest domain concentrations, only 3,000 were being run by Web-server computers in Manhattan, according to Internet.org, an Internet business information company in Pittsburgh that worked with New York University on its study.
But the technical operation of a company's Web sites is also the one that generates the fewest new jobs, industry experts say. Many systems, once running, can more or less operate on autopilot unless there is a power failure, telecommunications breakdown or some other error.
Being ahead in a single snapshot moment is, of course, a fleeting thing in the exploding, evanescent world of computer-based communications. In many ways, telecommunications experts say, the New York University study was dated and to some degree obsolete from the moment of its completion. The number of new domains being registered nationally, which was running at about 10,000 a month last year, has surged to nearly 100,000 a month this year, according to Network Solutions Inc., which monitors and registers new domain names.
But New York also appears to be holding its own, at least for the moment. Between January and the end of May, the number of domains nationally more than doubled, from 418,089 to 1.13 million, according to figures from Internet.org. The number in New York increased, but not quite as fast, to 41,156. The city's share of the national total thus fell slightly, to 3.6 percent.
"I think it shows that to us that New York is the information capital," said Michael Bauer, the president of Internet.org. "While Silicon Valley is clearly the software capital, in New York, content is king."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steve Mendes, right, in the offices of Small World Software on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. The company creates and runs corporate Web sites. (Linda Rosier for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 
Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS: Internet City"
New York City leads the nation in the number of Internet domains, a collection of network addresses covering one group or organization (examples: columbia.edu, nytimes.com). Graph shows the cities in the United States with the most registered domains. (Source: Taub Urban Research Center, NYU)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); PGP (PAR) (54%); PG (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (54%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (54%); NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (52%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (52%); SIC5094 JEWELRY, WATCHES, PRECIOUS STONES, & PRECIOUS METALS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); OHIO, USA (68%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (83%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (54%); VAN CLEEF & ARPELS INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); OHIO, USA (68%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB INTERNET & WWW (95%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (92%); WEB SITES (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS (75%); WRITERS (71%); RESEARCH REPORTS (68%); JOB CREATION (65%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1997

 
