

801 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1442 words

HEADLINE: Retiree Plans For Military Face Scrutiny

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO and MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
As Washington looks to squeeze savings from once-sacrosanct entitlements like Social Security and Medicare, another big social welfare system is growing as rapidly, but with far less scrutiny: the health and pension benefits of military retirees.
Military pensions and health care for active and retired troops now cost the government about $100 billion a year, representing an expanding portion of both the Pentagon budget -- about $700 billion a year, including war costs -- and the national debt, which together finance the programs.
Making even incremental reductions to military benefits is typically a doomed political venture, given the public's broad support for helping troops, the political potency of veterans groups and the fact that significant savings take years to appear.
But the intense push in Congress this year to reduce the debt and the possibility that the Pentagon might have to begin trimming core programs like weapons procurement, research, training and construction have suddenly made retiree benefits vulnerable, military officials and experts say. 
And if Congress fails to adopt the deficit-reduction recommendations of a bipartisan joint Congressional committee this fall, the Defense Department will be required under debt ceiling legislation passed in August to find about $900 billion in savings over the coming decade. Cuts that deep will almost certainly entail reducing personnel benefits for active and retired troops, Pentagon officials and analysts say.
''We've got to put everything on the table,'' Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta said recently on PBS, acknowledging that he was looking at proposals to rein in pension costs.
Under the current rules, service members who retire after 20 years are eligible for pensions that pay half their salaries for life, indexed for inflation, even if they leave at age 38. They are also eligible for lifetime health insurance through the military's system, Tricare, at a small fraction of the cost of private insurance, prompting many working veterans to shun employer health plans in favor of military insurance.
Advocates of revamping the systems argue that they are not just fiscally untenable but also unfair.
The annual fee for Tricare Prime, an H.M.O.-like program for military retirees, is just $460 for families and has not risen in years, even as health care costs have skyrocketed. Critics of the system say the contribution could be raised substantially and still be far lower than what civilians pay for employer-sponsored health plans, typically about $4,000.
Those critics also argue that under the current rules, 83 percent of former service members receive no pension payments at all -- because only veterans with 20 years of service are eligible. Those with 5 or even 15 years are not, even if they did multiple combat tours. Such a structure would be illegal in the private sector, and a company that tried it could be penalized, experts say.
''It cries out for some rationalization,'' said Sylvester J. Schieber, a former chairman of the Social Security Advisory Board. ''Why should we ask somebody to sustain a system that's unfair by any other measure in our society?''
But within military circles, and among many members of Congress, the benefits are considered untouchable. Veterans groups and military leaders argue that the system helps retain capable commissioned and noncommissioned officers.
And having volunteered to put their lives at risk, those people deserve higher-quality benefits, supporters argue. The typical beneficiary, they add, is not a general but a retired noncommissioned officer, with an average pension of about $26,000 a year.
''The whole reason military people are willing to pursue a career is because after 20, 30 years of extraordinary sacrifice, there is a package commensurate with that sacrifice upon leaving service,'' said Steven P. Strobridge, a retired Air Force colonel who is the director of government relations for the Military Officers Association of America, which is lobbying against changes to the benefits.
A wild-card factor in the debate is the withdrawal of American troops from Iraq and Afghanistan, which some experts say could avoid the stigma of cutting benefits while troops are at war.
''The fact that you are getting out of Iraq and Afghanistan does make it easier,'' said Lawrence J. Korb, a senior Pentagon official in the Reagan administration who was a co-author of a recent proposal for reducing the cost of military health care. ''When the war in Iraq was in terrible shape, it was hard to get people to join the military, and no one wanted to touch any military benefits.''
By far the most contentious proposal circulating in Washington is from a Pentagon advisory panel, the Defense Business Board. It would make the military pension system, a defined benefit plan, more like a 401(k) plan under which the Pentagon would make contributions to a service member's individual account; contributions by the troops themselves would be optional. Mr. Panetta has said that if adopted, the plan would not apply to current military personnel.
While health care costs for active and retired troops are growing faster, military pension costs are larger. Last year, for every dollar the Pentagon paid service members, it spent an additional $1.36 for its military retirees, a much smaller group. Even in the troubled world of state and municipal pension funds, pensions almost never cost more than payrolls.
Citing the fiscal hazards and inequities of the system, the Defense Business Board proposal would allow soldiers with less than 20 years of service to leave with a small nest egg, provided they served a minimum length of time, three to five years. But it would prevent all retirees from receiving benefits until they were 60.
The business board says that its proposal would reduce the plan's total liabilities to $1.8 trillion by 2034, from the $2.7 trillion now projected -- all without cutting benefits for current service members.
Steve Griffin of Tallahassee, Fla., is the type of soldier the defense board is trying to appeal to: a former captain who did two tours in Iraq, he left the Army in 2010 after five years of service and thus receives no pension.
Yet in a sign of the deep support for the existing system, Mr. Griffin says it should be left alone because it provides incentives for recruitment and rewards retirees who have endured great hardship.
''Yes, it would be nice for people like me,'' Mr. Griffin, 28, said of the proposal. ''But I think the retirement system now is fair. We shouldn't take anything from it. If anything, we should add to it.''
Much like in the debate over Social Security, questions about the sustainability of the military pension system abound.
Each year the Defense and Treasury Departments set aside more than $75 billion to pay not only current and future benefits but also pensions for service many years in the past. But the retirement fund has not accumulated nearly enough money to cover its total costs, with assets of $278 billion at the end of 2009 and obligations of about $1.4 trillion.
The government tries to close the shortfall by simply issuing more Treasury securities each year, thereby adding to the nation's debt.
Given the political potency of veterans groups, it is unclear whether anyone in Congress will lead an effort to revamp the pension or retiree health systems.
But the debt ceiling agreement approved this summer by Congress, under which the Pentagon must find $400 billion in reductions over the next 12 years, may force cuts once considered unthinkable. And if Congress does not adopt the recommendations of the bipartisan committee studying deficit reduction, the mandated reductions in Pentagon spending would more than double, to about $900 billion, and fall on just about every category of defense spending.
Deficit hawks, led by Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, have begun taking smaller steps, pushing for an array of cuts to military benefits, including ending subsidies for base commissaries and tightening disability compensation for diseases linked to Agent Orange.
But those trims are considered marginal compared with the deeper reductions many experts say are necessary to contain Pentagon spending.
''If the trend continues, it will call into question the military's ability to do other things, like buy equipment, do maintenance, train troops and equip them,'' said Nora Bensahel, a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security, a nonprofit organization with ties to the Obama administration.
''At some point, the cost pressures by the retirement benefits will really start to impede military capabilities.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Steve Griffin left the Army after five years and thus receives no pension. But he believes the system provides incentives for recruitment and rewards retirees who have endured great hardship. (PHOTOGRAPH BY COLIN HACKLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) MAPS: Spiraling Costs of the Military Pension Program: While a vast majority of those who serve in the military get no pension at all, the amount that the federal government contributes to military pensions has tripled since 2000 and is now larger than the entire military payroll. The portion the Pentagon spends on pensions is much greater than for most American employers. (Sources: Sylvester J. Schieber and the National Income and Product Accounts) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); MILITARY BENEFITS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (89%); VETERANS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); DEFENSE ACQUISITION REFORM (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (75%); DEBT CEILING (75%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); LEGISLATION (69%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (63%)

PERSON: LEON E PANETTA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011



802 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: A Little Inflation Can Be a Dangerous Thing

BYLINE: By PAUL A. VOLCKER. 
Paul A. Volcker was chairman of the Federal Reserve from 1979 to 1987.

 BODY:
IN all the commentary about Ben S. Bernanke's recent speech in Jackson Hole, Wyo., little attention has been paid to six crucial words: ''in a context of price stability.'' Those words concluded a discussion by Mr. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, of what tools the central bank could consider appropriate to promote a stronger economic recovery.
Ordinarily, a central banker's affirming the importance of price stability is not headline news. But consider the setting. There is great and understandable disappointment about high unemployment and the absence of a robust economy, and even concern about the possibility of a renewed downturn. There is also a sense of desperation that both monetary and fiscal policy have almost exhausted their potential, given the size of the fiscal deficits and the already extremely low level of interest rates. 
So now we are beginning to hear murmurings about the possible invigorating effects of ''just a little inflation.'' Perhaps 4 or 5 percent a year would be just the thing to deal with the overhang of debt and encourage the ''animal spirits'' of business, or so the argument goes.
It's not yet a full-throated chorus. But remarkably, at least one member of the Fed's policy making committee recently departed from the price-stability script.
The siren song is both alluring and predictable. Economic circumstances and the limitations on orthodox policies are indeed frustrating. After all, if 1 or 2 percent inflation is O.K. and has not raised inflationary expectations -- as the Fed and most central banks believe -- why not 3 or 4 or even more? Let's try to get business to jump the gun and invest now in the expectation of higher prices later, and raise housing prices (presumably commodities and gold, too) and maybe wages will follow. If the dollar is weakened, that's a good thing; it might even help close the trade deficit. And of course, as soon as the economy expands sufficiently, we will promptly return to price stability.
Well, good luck.
Some mathematical models spawned in academic seminars might support this scenario. But all of our economic history says it won't work that way. I thought we learned that lesson in the 1970s. That's when the word stagflation was invented to describe a truly ugly combination of rising inflation and stunted growth.
My point is not that we are on the edge today of serious inflation, which is unlikely if the Fed remains vigilant. Rather, the danger is that if, in desperation, we turn to deliberately seeking inflation to solve real problems -- our economic imbalances, sluggish productivity, and excessive leverage -- we would soon find that a little inflation doesn't work. Then the instinct will be to do a little more -- a seemingly temporary and ''reasonable'' 4 percent becomes 5, and then 6 and so on.
What we know, or should know, from the past is that once inflation becomes anticipated and ingrained -- as it eventually would -- then the stimulating effects are lost. Once an independent central bank does not simply tolerate a low level of inflation as consistent with ''stability,'' but invokes inflation as a policy, it becomes very difficult to eliminate.
It is precisely the common experience with this inflation dynamic that has led central banks around the world to place prime importance on price stability. They do so not at the expense of a strong productive economy. They do it because experience confirms that price stability -- and the expectation of that stability -- is a key element in keeping interest rates low and sustaining a strong, expanding, fully employed economy.
At a time when foreign countries own trillions of our dollars, when we are dependent on borrowing still more abroad, and when the whole world counts on the dollar's maintaining its purchasing power, taking on the risks of deliberately promoting inflation would be simply irresponsible.
It is that conviction that underlies Mr. Bernanke's six words. Let's not forget them.
President Obama has now set out new proposals to support economic growth. I hope he will be able to work with a responsible Congress to find the common ground that is urgently needed to deal with the economic challenges before us, restoring a healthy economy ''in a context of price stability.'' I also hope they will reach agreement early next year on a strong program to deal responsibly with our huge budget deficit over the years ahead.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); INFLATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); PRODUCTIVITY (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); REAL ESTATE (72%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); HOME PRICES (72%); MODELING & SIMULATION (72%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (68%); INTEREST RATES (53%); MATHEMATICS (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011



803 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: Fed Runs Risk of Doing Less Than Investors Expect

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM; Jackie Calmes contributed reporting from Washington, and Eric Dash from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Investors have concluded that the Federal Reserve will announce new measures to promote economic growth after a meeting of its policy-making committee ends Wednesday. Long-term interest rates have moved as if the Fed had already spoken.
The central bank is often described as facing the choice of whether to do more to improve the economy. But the anticipatory behavior of investors means the Fed really faces a slightly different choice, one it has confronted often in recent years: whether to risk doing less than expected.
The overriding argument for action is the persistent weakness of the American economy, which has left more than 25 million Americans unable to find full-time work.
The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, who has made a series of unusual efforts to revive growth, has not discouraged speculation that he is ready to try again. 
''I think the Fed has no choice but to act,'' said Krishna Memani, director of fixed income at Oppenheimer Funds. ''If the Fed were not to do anything having built market expectations to a pretty decent level, I think the markets would react quite negatively to that.''
But the Fed also faces mounting pressure against additional action, including strident criticism from Republican presidential candidates and divisions in the policy-making committee. Moreover, the options available to the central bank have less power to generate growth, a greater chance of negative consequences, or both, than those it has already tried.
Some close watchers of the central bank say investors' behavior could let the Fed offer a token gesture now, postponing any larger move at least until its next meeting in November. After all, the Fed is reaping the benefits of action without the costs.
''There is no reason for the Fed to rush,'' Lou Crandall, chief economist at Wrightson/ICAP, wrote in a recent note to clients predicting such an outcome. ''It is in the Fed's interest to milk the anticipation effect as long as possible.''
The move markets are anticipating is a new effort to reduce long-term interest rates, which would allow businesses and consumers to borrow more cheaply. Yields on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell to a record low of 1.88 percent at the start of last week, reflecting the Fed's earlier efforts to lower rates and investors' pessimism about the economy.
The hope is that an additional reduction in rates will provide a little more encouragement for companies to build factories and hire workers and for consumers to buy cars and dishwashers.
The Fed has held short-term rates near zero since December 2008, by increasing the supply of money.
To further reduce long-term rates, the Fed bought more than $2 trillion in government debt and mortgage-backed securities, reducing the supply available to investors and thereby forcing them to pay higher prices -- that is, to accept lower interest rates.
The Fed could seek to amplify that effect by adjusting the composition of its portfolio, selling short-term securities and using the proceeds to buy long-term securities, which it predicts would further reduce rates.
An analysis by the forecasting firm Macroeconomic Advisers estimated that such an effort by the Fed could raise gross domestic product by 0.4 of a percentage point over the next two years, and create about 350,000 jobs. That is comparable to estimates of the impact of the central bank's most recent aid campaign, the QE2, or quantitative easing, purchases of $600 billion in Treasury securities, which concluded in June.
Mr. Bernanke announced in August that the Federal Open Market Committee, the policy-making board, would meet for two days, extending its scheduled one-day meeting this week, to consider that and other options.
The Fed could take smaller steps, like promising to maintain current efforts longer. It may also consider options that could deliver a more powerful jolt to the economy, like increasing the size of its investment portfolio again. But more aggressive measures have little internal support.
The Fed, Mr. Bernanke said, is ''prepared to employ these tools as appropriate to promote a stronger economic recovery in a context of price stability.''
He still commands a solid majority of his 10-member board despite the emergence of the largest bloc of internal dissent in two decades. Three members voted against the decision last month to declare an intention to hold short-term interest rates near zero for at least two more years, replacing a stated intention to maintain the policy for an ''extended period.''
The central bank has also become a target of conservative politicians, with several Republican presidential candidates denouncing its efforts to increase growth. But even Mr. Bernanke's internal critics dismiss these attacks.
''I don't spend a lot of time worrying about what any one candidate says about us,'' Richard W. Fisher, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, told Fox Business Network in a recent interview. ''The issue is to get it right.''
Of greater concern is the possibility that the Fed is nearing the limits of its powers. Interest rates are already depressed and, like a board mounted on a spring, pushing down gets harder as the floor gets closer.
Studies also have found the Fed's success in reducing rates has not yielded the full measure of predicted benefits. Mortgages and small business loans may be cheap, but because lenders remain cautious, they are not easy to get.
The research firm Capital Economics said recently any renewed effort by the central bank would be unlikely to overcome those obstacles.
''We don't expect it to have any dramatic impact on the wider economy because many households will still not qualify for loans at those lower rates,'' it said.
The Fed also would face an increased risk of losing money on its investments.
And only so many Treasuries are available for sale. If the Fed sold all of its securities maturing in the next four years and bought only securities maturing in more than 17 years, maximizing its impact, it would end up with 70 percent of the available long-term inventory. That could interfere with the normal operations of insurance companies and other traditional buyers.
Laurence H. Meyer, a former Federal Reserve governor who now leads Macroeconomic Advisers, said he expected the Fed to conclude that the potential benefits outweighed these issues, but that it needed more time to hammer out details.
''We expect them to come out of the committee meeting feeling that they've decided and have a consensus to move in November,'' he said.
Mr. Meyer suggested that the Fed could mollify the markets by announcing what amounts to a preview, by investing the proceeds of maturing securities -- about $20 billion each month -- in longer-term debt.
Such a move might not do much to move the economic needle, because the amounts involved would be minute by the standards of monetary policy, but it could be enough to preserve the valuable conviction that the Fed will do more soon.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben S. Bernanke has not discouraged speculation that he will try again to spur economic growth. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN THEW/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (73%); BOND MARKETS (71%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (69%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (65%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (51%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011



804 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2101 words

HEADLINE: Paint Creek, the Town Perry Left Behind

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

 BODY:
PAINT CREEK, Tex. -- In the early 1960s, at a tiny, rural school here in the rugged plains of West Texas, little Ricky Perry waged his first campaign. Seeking the office of Halloween King, he stocked up on penny candy at Ma's convenience store and then doled it out to classmates.
''It was Rick's first victory, and he won it with payola,'' Wallar Overton, his old scoutmaster's son, said with a chuckle.
Fifty years later, as Mr. Perry, 61 and a three-term Republican governor of Texas, embarks on a run for president, the tight-knit and traditionally Democratic community that first crowned him king no longer wholeheartedly embraces him even as Paint Creek anchors his origin story. 
People here in Haskell County do understand Mr. Perry in a way few can, seeing the spirited, mischievous child in the brash, ambitious politician and recognizing how far this son of a dry-land cotton farmer has already traveled from a county with one stoplight.
But they also know that this town ''too small to have a ZIP code,'' in Mr. Perry's words, propelled a restless farm boy whose disciplinarian father was a local power broker into a life of politics that fed off his roots while he moved beyond them and, some say, betrayed them.
Many in itty-bitty Paint Creek, with its 259 registered voters, are proud and protective of Mr. Perry, the ardent Eagle Scout and scrappy athlete dubbed ''most popular'' and ''Future Homemakers of America Beau'' by his class of 13.
But others here will never forgive Mr. Perry for switching to the Republican Party five years after they elected him as a Democrat to the Texas House of Representatives in 1984. And they are leery now of seeing Haskell County, with its graying population, ailing economy and drought-parched landscape, used as a bucolic backdrop for his self-promotion.
''He's overdone that small-town-boy thing pretty well at this point,'' said Bobby Tidwell, a retiree and self-described ''Y.D.'' -- yellow-dog -- Democrat. ''He's living in a mansion in Austin while folks here are worried about losing their farms.''
In his 2008 book, ''On My Honor: Why the American Values of the Boy Scouts Are Worth Fighting For,'' Mr. Perry writes of the simpler, slower rural lifestyle that, with its focus on family, hard work, church and ''core decency,'' incubated his conservative values.
His childhood hometown was simple and slow, although Mr. Perry's metabolism almost always revved at a higher gear, friends said.
From the time he was 7 to his graduation at 18 , Mr. Perry attended school in a one-story building framed by mulberry trees on flat land where the whoosh of the wind is interrupted only by chattering blackbirds. Opposite the school sat the Methodist church, now shuttered, that the Perrys attended every Sunday. There was also a Baptist church.
And that was Paint Creek, where, for better or worse, everybody knew everybody else's business.
''If I misbehaved in class, Mom would find out about it before I got home,'' Mr. Perry wrote, and his father would get the news on returning from the fields. ''Dad believed in the pain principle. His leather belt was usually the delivery method of choice.''
Mr. Perry's ancestors moved to Haskell County after his great-great-grandfathers fought with the Confederates in the Civil War. Interviewed for a local history called ''Putting Paint Creek on the Map,'' the governor's grandfather Hoyt Perry said his family sank roots near the red clay banks of the creek in 1889.
''When I can first remember this land, it was all prairies with just a few mesquite,'' Hoyt Perry said. ''This whole country was covered with prairie dogs. I used to catch me a few and make pets out of them.''
Hoyt Perry said he farmed with mules on a ranch owned by another family. His son Ray, the governor's father, became a tenant farmer, too, until he acquired some acreage of his own and combined it with leased property. Cotton, wheat and grain sorghum were the crops that could be coaxed from the dry land.
In 1950, when the governor was born, Haskell County had about 14,000 residents. (It has been losing population ever since and is now home to 5,899, according to the 2010 census.) A severe drought forced many to migrate in the early '50s, but Ray and Amelia Perry held on. Ray helped make ends meet by working construction on a new dam; Amelia, a seamstress who made all her son's clothes including his underwear until after he left for college, sewed in a lingerie factory for a while, neighbors said.
In early childhood, the governor and his older sister, Milla, lived with their parents in a simple though spacious wooden bungalow with a washtub on the porch. Later they moved into the modest brick ranch house, now flanked by towering American and Texas flags, where his parents still live.
''Governor Perry wasn't born with a gold or silver spoon in his mouth,'' said Don Ballard, 65, superintendent of the Paint Creek school district. ''I mean, he never done without a meal. But he was not blessed with a multimillion-dollar inheritance neither.''
Like many boys in the area, Mr. Perry grew up alongside what people here refer to as ''hired help.'' Guadalupe Gonzales, a Mexican-American from San Antonio, was his father's longtime ranch hand and lived with his family on the Perrys' property.
''Mr. Perry had two hands at first -- Little Lupe, which was my dad, and Big Lupe, who was from Old Mexico,'' said Connie Lusk, 62. ''My mother used to clean their house. But Ricky was, I don't know, like one of my brothers.
''My dad used to take me and Ricky to the fields,'' she said. ''They had this little tractor with one little seat on each side, and we'd ride around and spray the Johnson grass,'' a weed, with chemicals. ''He was more into cattle, though. He liked riding horses.''
Mrs. Lusk sighed and smiled. She is now the janitor at the Paint Creek School and was taking a break from buffing the floor in a hallway adorned with a portrait of the governor. Looking up, she said, ''I didn't realize then that Ricky was so damn good-looking.''
In Paint Creek back in the 1950s, Mr. Perry and his friends roamed the fields, camped out in the pastures, played with Mr. Perry's Shetland pony and shot -- or shot at -- rabbits. They started driving tractors at about age 10 before they became Eagle Scouts, ''and all the guys helped their daddies on the farm,'' said Phyllis Coleman, a childhood friend.
Mr. Overton, 72, the late scoutmaster's son, said the young Rick loved to play pranks and push limits. One winter night when he was 11, he sneaked into the Overtons's yard to fish for crawdads with his friend Bob Earles.
''I caught them and told them they'd catch their death of cold,'' Mr. Overton said. ''Rick said, 'Well, I'm not going to catch pneumonia because I got my underwear on, but Bob here is naked.' ''
Consulted for Mr. Perry's scouting book, Mr. Overton said he enjoyed its reminiscences and its acknowledgment of his father. But he rolled his eyes at the governor's depiction of a ''war on the Scouts'' being waged by atheists and ''activist homosexuals.''
''I think there are a lot of good men who can't be scoutmasters because they are gay,'' Mr. Overton said, adding that he would not vote for Mr. Perry for president despite their personal ties.
In high school in Paint Creek, ''every boy played six-man football or basketball, and every girl was a cheerleader, a twirler or in pep squad,'' Mrs. Coleman said. ''They were all in Future Farmers of America. Everybody did projects. Rick raised calves. My husband-to-be built a gun cabinet. It was that type of community: normal.''
Mr. Perry always charmed everybody's mothers with his ''Yes, ma'am, no, ma'ams,'' childhood friends said, and with his ready humor.
''I was listening to him on TV the other day and got so tickled,'' Mrs. Coleman said. ''He said, yeah, he was for handgun control -- 'use both hands.' That was Ricky to a tee. He's a jokester.''
Mr. Perry first met Anita Thigpen, a pretty doctor's daughter who went on to become a nurse, at a piano recital when he was 8. They married 24 years later, in 1982, when he finally ''wore down'' his teenage ''sweetheart'' and persuaded her to be his wife, Mr. Perry wrote.
Judging by the school yearbooks, Mr. Perry, while ''most athletic,'' never made honor roll (although one former classmate does remember him on field trips reserved for the best students). ''He's not a genius, but he's got problem-solving skills,'' said Phil Coleman, a school classmate.
As a teenager, Mr. Perry spent much of his free time at a rustic waterfront camp on nearby Lake Stamford. ''Old, slow-pokey Rick -- I couldn't get rid of him,'' joked Twain Mickler, 76, whose family owned the camp. ''He was a good kid. Not much of a fisherman -- too impatient. Loved to waterski.''
Mr. Mickler said Mr. Perry, who as a young adult owned a single-engine plane and leased his piloting services, once flew him and Ray Perry to Alaska for a caribou hunting trip. ''I got a small one, Ray got a big one, and Rick was a better airplane flier than a hunter,'' he said.
It amuses him now, Mr. Mickler said, that the governor of Texas used to tell his mother that he aspired ''to grow up just like me.'' He added, with a half-smile, ''I'm guessing he didn't mean the drinking.''
About the time that Mr. Perry graduated from high school, his father was elected county commissioner and held on to the post for 28 years. Mr. Perry wrote in his book that his great-great-grandfather was county judge and that public service -- some here call it a thirst for power and a steady salary -- runs in the family.
Right about the time that Mr. Overton married, Commissioner Perry built a private, red-gravel road to his property. ''I said, 'Ray, is this legal?' '' Mr. Overton said. ''He said: 'I have a policy, Wallar. You're paying taxes on the county road. If you can't get to it, that doesn't make sense.' ''
Mr. Coleman, who always knew he would settle here for life, said Mr. Perry, who first left to attend Texas A&M University and then to join the Air Force, never seemed fated to stay put in Paint Creek. ''Rick was, I don't know how to say it -- ambitious,'' he said.
Mr. Overton concurred. ''He came home after the Air Force and tried it for a while, but I don't think Rick had farming in his blood,'' he said. ''It's laborious and boring. He loved excitement and attention.''
In 1984, Haskell County sent Rick Perry, Democrat, to the Texas Statehouse. After he switched parties in 1989 and then won a statewide race to be agriculture commissioner, he moved to Austin and left Haskell County in more ways than one.
''He just wasn't getting where he wanted fast enough under the Democratic flag, and he went where the money was -- that's the Perry way,'' said Steven Alsabrook, 57, a Haskell farmer.
Some here understood Mr. Perry's move as pragmatic, sensing that the Republican Party was on the ascent in Texas. But it still does not sit well with retirees like Mr. Tidwell who gather every morning to gossip and grumble over 75-cent bottomless cups of coffee at the Double ''A'' Drive-In.
The men, like others here, complain most about the 2003 Congressional redistricting done under the governor's watch that cost the area its longtime Democratic representative, Charles Stenholm. And they nurse grudges about Mr. Perry's failure to visit after devastating floods a few years back.
His parents, who are still active members of the community, always attending church and often stopping by the senior center's lively free lunch program, usually travel to Austin to see their son, friends said. They declined to be interviewed. ''Ma'am, I don't do reporters,'' Amelia Perry said, hanging up her phone.
Mayor John Gannaway of Haskell, a family friend and Republican, said she was fiercely protective of her son. Mr. Gannaway scoffs at those who gripe about Mr. Perry.
''We got people in this town, doesn't matter if you offered free love and nickel beer on the square, they'd be against it,'' he said. ''Now if you ask what Rick's done specifically for Haskell, I'll tell you proudly: nothing. Because if he had, somebody would have said, 'That little son-of-a-gun is playing favorites,' and turned it against him.''
Driving around the area, the mayor veered off the road and into a field, rolling to a halt beneath a billboard. He asked a sign maker parked there about some details relating to his idea to replace the ''Haskell Alive!'' signs that celebrate the town.
''What I've got in mind is this,'' Mr. Gannaway said, sketching on a paper. '' 'Haskell: Home County of Rick and Anita Perry,' with a nice picture of them. You got to see this as an opportunity, right?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rick Perry in a high school yearbook photo from 1966. (A1)
Last month, when Mr. Perry was campaigning for president in Iowa, an old schoolmate, Becky Roe, showed him a yearbook. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM YOUNG/REUTERS)
A young Rick Perry, wearing a Texas A&M sweatshirt, with other members of the Paint Creek Boy Scouts. Mr. Perry has talked often about the values taught by the Scouts. Below, one of the homes that the Perry family lived in when Mr. Perry was growing up.
 Some think the pace of Paint Creek was too slow for a man with Mr. Perry's ambition. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CALEB BRYANT MILLER/TEXAS TRIBUNE) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HALLOWEEN (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); RURAL SCHOOLS (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); POLITICS (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%); LIFESTYLE TRENDS (74%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); CONVENIENCE STORES (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SCOUT ASSOCIATION (59%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011



805 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: Fill In The Blanks

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER

 BODY:
Just a few winters ago my wife and I took our daughters to witness the inauguration of a man who had campaigned on hope and embodied possibility. We are pretty immune to political euphoria, but, circulating among the footsore pilgrims, we could imagine our country had embraced the idea that we were all in this together. When the newly sworn-in president congratulated us all on choosing unity of purpose over recriminations and worn-out dogmas, we wanted to believe that we had done exactly that.
Inaugurations, of course, are ceremonial ephemera. After the ''Ask not'' comes the Bay of Pigs. After the 60-plus approval rating comes the 9-plus unemployment rate. But it is worth pondering how we got from that day to this partisan clamor, how we lost that sense of common cause, and how it became a consensus of the commentariat that Barack Obama is in serious danger of being a one-term president.
The decline in Obama's political fortunes, the Great Disappointment, can be attributed to four main factors: the intractable legacy bequeathed by George W. Bush; Republican resistance amounting to sabotage; the unrealistic expectations and inevitable disenchantment of some of the president's supporters; and, to be sure, the man himself. 
Obama inherited a country in such distress that his Inaugural Address alluded to George Washington at Valley Forge, marking ''this winter of our hardship.'' Unfunded wars, supply-side deficits, twin housing and banking crises enabled by an orgy of regulatory permissiveness -- that was the legacy Obama assumed. In our political culture if you inherit a problem and don't fix it, you own it. So at some point it became the popular wisdom that Iraq and Afghanistan were ''Obama's wars,'' and that the recession had become ''Obama's economy.'' Given the systemic burden Bush left for his successor, that judgment seems to me to be less about fair play than about short memories. But this is what passes for accountability in our system. And the Republicans have been relentlessly effective at rebranding every failing of the Bush administration as Obama's fault. The historical truth, therefore, is no longer a viable political shelter for the Obama presidency. At best we can hope it serves as a caution against those who preach a return to the indiscriminate tax cuts and regulatory free-for-all that helped produce our lingering mess in the first place.
Another toxic legacy of the Bush years is an angry conservative populism, in which government is viewed as tyranny and compromise as apostasy. The Tea Party faction has captured not only the Republican primary process, but to a large extent the national conversation and the legislative machinery. In Congress the anger is pandered to by Republicans who should know better, since their nihilism discredits not only the president they have cynically set out to make a failure, but their own institution. Voters are frustrated by this -- Congress has the approval rating of bedbugs -- but it remains to be seen whether the electorate will punish the real culprits or simply reward the candidates who run against that bogeyman, ''Washington.''
The disenchantment of the liberals may seem less consequential; it's not as if they are going to vote for Rick Perry. But Obama needs their energy if he is to keep his office and have any allies left in Congress. What he gets instead is a lot of carping. Obama's deal to continue the Bush tax cuts, his surrender of a public option on health care, his refusal to call the Republicans' bluff on the debt ceiling rather than swallow budget cuts -- these and other compromises amount, in the eyes of the Democratic left, to crimes of appeasement.
There is an element of partisan cynicism in the Democrats' disappointment. For example, last week Obama was excoriated for putting Medicare cuts on the table. His offense was apparently not so much that he was wrong on the merits, but that his move ''cancels out any bludgeoning that Democrats might give the Republicans'' on the potent issue of geriatric entitlements, in the remarkably candid words of one House Democrat.
Jonathan Chait pointed out in The Times Magazine recently that the liberal repudiation of Obama ''wishes away any constraints upon his power.'' (See Republican intransigence, above.) It also undervalues some real accomplishments, achieved despite a brutally divided government. Lost in the shouting is the fact that Obama pulled the country back from the brink of depression; signed a health care reform law that expands coverage, preserves choice and creates a mechanism for controlling costs; engineered a fairly stringent financial regulatory reform; and authorized the risky mission that got Osama bin Laden.
To be disillusioned you must first have illusions. Some of those who projected their own agendas onto the slogans and symbols of the Obama campaign were victims of wishful thinking -- fed by Obama's oratory of change. Anyone who paid attention while candidate Obama was helping President Bush pass the 2008 bank bailout should have understood that beneath the rhetorical flourishes Obama has always been at heart a cautious, cool, art-of-the-possible pragmatist. When he sees that he lacks the power to get what he wants, he settles for what he can get.
Obama can be faulted for periods of passivity (his silence as Republicans have sought to defund financial reforms), for a naive deference to Congress (his belated engagement in the details of the health care bill), for a deficit of boldness and passion, for not doing more to stiffen the spines of his caucus on Capitol Hill, for not understanding -- at least until his latest barnstorming on the jobs bill -- that governing these days is a permanent campaign.
It is partly a failure of presidential communications that Republicans have succeeded in parodying each of his accomplishments, turning ''stimulus'' into an expletive, portraying ''Obamacare'' as socialized medicine and attacking the Dodd-Frank financial reform as an assault on capitalism.
It's not just that he has failed to own his successes. He has in a sense failed to define himself. He is one of our more elusive presidents, not deeply rooted in any place or movement. David Remnick's biography called Obama a shape-shifter. At the fringes, that makes him vulnerable to conspiratorial slanders: he is a socialist, a foreign imposter, a jihadist, an adherent of black liberation theology. To a less paranoid audience, his affect comes across as aloofness or ambivalence.
PERSONALLY, I can stand a little ambivalence in our leaders, particularly compared with the blinkered certitude of the previous administration. But in politics there are few greater liabilities than a perceived lack of definition.
Against Obama we have a cast of Republicans who talk about the federal government with a contempt that must have Madison and Hamilton spinning in their coffins. The G.O.P. campaign sounds like a contest for the Barry Goldwater Chair in States' Rights: neuter the Fed; abolish the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of Education and a few other departments; turn Medicare and Social Security into individual 401(k) programs; dismantle national health care and revoke consumer protections. Rick Perry, who likes to rouse Texans by claiming the right to secede from the union, sometimes sounds as if he has expanded his view to encompass the secession of all 50 states. Even Mitt Romney -- at heart a Republican technocrat (and the only candidate I've ever seen give a campaign speech with PowerPoint) -- talks as if the main role of the president is to grant waivers from any kind of mandate upon the states. Such is the power of our new, centrifugal populism.
Do they really believe this, or are they just playing to the Ron Paul libertarian niche? Do you really want to find out?
So let's get real. Yes, Obama could do better. But we could do a lot worse.
Bill Keller's column will appear every other Monday. Ross Douthat's column will appear on Sundays, starting Sept. 25.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KNICKERBOCKER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); WILLS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); BANK FAILURES (64%); TAX LAW (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011



806 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: Scrutinizing Google's Reign

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR and CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

 BODY:
Google's slogan may be don't be evil, but a growing chorus of antitrust regulators in the United States and Europe want to know if the company has lived up to that creed.
This week, those concerns -- especially whether Google gives its own businesses preferred placement in search results, thwarting competition and harming consumers -- will have their most public airing to date, when Google's chairman, Eric E. Schmidt, testifies before a Senate antitrust panel. Some of Google's competitors will also testify.
The Senate proceeding is just one of an array of inquiries into Google's behavior by various federal and state authorities in this country, as well as by regulators in Europe and Asia. And though the company and the times are different, there are echoes of a hearing before the same Senate body, the Judiciary antitrust subcommittee, 13 years ago and the last sweeping antitrust investigation of an American technology powerhouse, Microsoft. Later, the federal government, joined by 20 states, filed suit against Microsoft. 
''Google is a great American success story, but its size, position and power in the marketplace have raised concerns about its business practices, and raised the question of what responsibilities come with that power,'' said Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, who is a member of the antitrust subcommittee and who as the attorney general of Connecticut played a leading role among the states that sued Microsoft.
Today Google, like Microsoft then, is both admired and feared. Google has used the riches from its dominance in search and search advertising to expand into video distribution with YouTube, smartphone software with Android and Web browsers with Chrome. It has added online commerce offerings in local retail and restaurants, comparison shopping and travel, and folded them into its search engine, prompting complaints that Google is giving its businesses preferred placement in search results.
Google executives have consistently replied that its search results are the product of extensive user testing, and do not favor its own offerings. If users become dissatisfied with Google search results, the company argues, they will go elsewhere, to rival search engines like Microsoft's Bing, sites that focus on specific products or services like Yelp, or social networks like Facebook.
''Using Google is a choice,'' Amit Singhal, a senior engineering manager at Google, wrote on the company's blog in June, after the Federal Trade Commission began its investigation. ''And there are lots of other choices available to you for getting information.''
Competitors disagree. Yelp, the popular Web site for user reviews and recommendations for restaurants and other businesses, has noticed a difference in search rankings since Google established its own online businesses, said Jeremy Stoppelman, co-founder and chief executive of Yelp, which gets half its traffic from Google searches.
Two years ago, Google offered to buy Yelp, but the talks broke down. Last year, Google introduced Places, a Yelp-like service for listing businesses and collecting consumer reviews. A Google search for a restaurant often displays the Places entry -- linked to a map, user reviews and other services -- ahead of Yelp.
''Google develops its own in-house properties and it preferences those, so it's leveraging its dominance in Web search,'' he said.
Mr. Stoppelman, who is scheduled to testify at the Senate hearing on Wednesday, added, ''When it comes to Web search, Google says you have great content, you rise to the top and that's historically been true for us. But we do feel like that world is changing because Google has decided it's not enough to own and dominate Web search.''
This month, Google acquired Zagat, the restaurant listing and review service, to strengthen its local commerce offering. Yelp is Zagat's leading online rival.
Google, legal experts say, presents some challenges for the traditional doctrine of antitrust. The Microsoft case, too, required adapting antitrust principles to modern technology, and the complaint filed against the company was filled with technical computing terms like ''cross-platform middleware'' and ''application programming interfaces.''
Yet Microsoft's dominant product -- the Windows personal computer operating system -- was something consumers and companies paid for, as with any conventional good.
Google's search service, by contrast, is ''free and anyone who wants to use it can use it,'' said Herbert Hovenkamp, an antitrust expert at the University of Iowa College of Law, so higher prices for consumers -- a hallmark of competitive harm -- is not an issue.
But in other ways, the accusations against Google fit comfortably into antitrust.
''If it is proven that Google discriminates in favor of its own online properties, you certainly have an antitrust issue,'' Mr. Hovenkamp said.
While the technical ingredients may be different, the Google recipe is the same one used by Microsoft years ago, said Gary L. Reback, a lawyer at Carr & Ferrell who represents some of Google's rivals.
The Microsoft case revolved around Netscape, maker of the first commercially successful Web browser, and the bullying tactics Microsoft used to thwart the threat it represented.
The browser was a new layer of software, running on top of a personal computer operating system, and developers wrote software to run on the browser. Thus the browser took on some functions similar to an operating system, potentially undermining the role and value of Windows.
''Web sites like Yelp and others in travel and shopping that help people find things are partial substitutes for Google in the same way that Netscape was a partial substitute for Windows,'' said Mr. Reback, who also played a key part in the 1990s case against Microsoft.
Google's expansion strategy beyond search is an effort to grab more online advertising dollars. Google pockets more than three-fourths of all search advertising dollars in the United States, and a higher share in many European markets.
Its share of total online ad revenue in America, including spending on larger graphic and video ads, is 41 percent, followed by Yahoo with 11 percent, Facebook with 7 percent and Microsoft with 6 percent, according to eMarketer, a research firm.
Advertising revenue, analysts say, is the prize on the Internet -- the fuel that sustains services, competition and innovation.
Much of the economy may be languishing, but not in Silicon Valley, where start-ups are being created at a torrid rate, flourishing, it seems, in Google's shadow. Facebook and Twitter, for example, are becoming powers in their own right
''The similarity between Google and Microsoft years ago is the potential for harm, the risk that a dominant company uses its power to disadvantage others,'' said Mitchell Kapor, a longtime Silicon Valley technologist and investor. ''But Google was born on the open Internet, and things are just generally far more open to innovators and start-ups than in the Microsoft era.''
And, as proof of the rapid turn of fortunes in technology, Microsoft is now the underdog, trailing well behind Google in search and search advertising, urging government officials to take action. Microsoft has met regularly with antitrust investigators in America and filed a complaint against Google in Europe this year.
''We appreciate the irony,'' Brad Smith, Microsoft's general counsel, said in an interview earlier this year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES BEST Jr./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
Jeremy Stoppelman, above, the founder of Yelp, said Google's own Places listing service routinely ranks higher in search results than Yelp. Eric E. Schmidt, left, Google's chairman, is expected to testify this week before a Senate antitrust panel. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 DAVID PAUL MORRIS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (93%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SEARCH ENGINES (89%); CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (86%); SOCIAL MEDIA (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (68%); LITIGATION (68%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); RESTAURANTS (68%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (63%); WEB SITES (63%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (63%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (63%); EXECUTIVES (62%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%); YELP! INC (85%); FACEBOOK INC (52%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); YELP (NYSE) (85%); FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%)

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (90%); RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011



807 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: What Makes Teachers Productive?

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: Evaluation of teachers is too important to be left to standardized test results, an economist writes.

 BODY:
If you watch the documentary "Waiting for Superman" or read Steven Brill's "Class Warfare: Inside the Fight to Fix America's Schools," you will learn that many advocates of school reform think they know how to increase teacher productivity: Rate teachers according to their students' performance on standardized tests and fire those who don't make the grade.
But economic theory suggests several reasons why this approach will probably backfire.
Scores on standardized tests are not an accurate measure of success in later life, because they don't capture important aspects of emotional intelligence, such as self-control and ability to collaborate with others. The Nobel laureate James Heckman describes noncognitive traits as a crucial component of human capital.
Indeed, research by the economists Eric Hanushek and Steven Rifkin -- both advocates of school reform -- indicates that neither teachers' own test scores when they were students nor their educational credentials explain much of the variation in their students' outcomes. Why judge teachers narrowly on a set of outcomes that are not even predictive of their own success?

The most highly promoted evaluation schemes statistically analyze year-to-year changes in individual test scores, yielding an estimate of teacher "value added." This approach helps control for differences among students for which teachers shouldn't be held accountable. Still, the results show a high level of random variation and high error rates. Teacher rankings often vary from class to class and year to year.
Too much pressure to improve students' test scores can reduce attention to other aspects of the curriculum and discourage cultivation of broader problem-solving skills, also known as "teaching to the test." The economists Bengt Holmstrom and Paul Milgrom describe the general problem of misaligned incentives in more formal terms - workers who are rewarded only for accomplishment of easily measurable tasks reduce the effort devoted to other tasks.
Advocates of intensified teacher assessment assert that current practices leave too many incompetent or ineffective teachers in place. But many schools suffer from the opposite problem: high teacher turnover that reduces gains from experience and increases the costs of personnel management. As Sara Mosle pointed out in a recent reviewof Mr. Brill's "Class Warfare," about 40 percent of teachers in New York City quit after three years.
Teaching is an increasingly demanding job. Yet its average weekly pay has declined in recent years compared with the pay of other college graduates. Sweeping budget cuts have led to layoffs and worsened working conditions. Teachers in some school districts in Texas are now assigned janitorial work.
In principle, "pay for performance" based on student test scores (rather than sweeping classrooms) could help attract better teachers. In practice, however, most people don't know whether they will be good teachers until they have given it a try. New teachers need support, encouragement and mentoring to help develop their skills. High-stakes assessments that force them into competition with one another discourage collaboration.
In a fascinating study of the effect of supportive social networks on teacher productivity, Carrie Leana of the Graduate School of Business at the University of Pittsburgh found that both the amount of time that teachers spent talking to peers and teacher stability had positive impacts on student outcomes. In other words, the development of "social capital" contributed to the productivity of human capital.
All these economic factors help explain why Mr. Brill's version of education reform should get a low grade.
Effective schools require effective teacher assessments. But efforts to improve educational accountability have a long history, thoughtfully analyzed in a new book, "High-Stakes Reform: the Politics of Educational Accountability," by my University of Massachusetts colleague Kathryn McDermott. The most important lesson, she concludes, is not that we should stop trying to measure performance but should "resist pressure to oversimplify and reach for all-purpose carrot-and-stick combinations."
If we want super teachers, we need to be super careful about how we assess them.

        
What's Wrong With Cutting Taxes?
        
Slow Learners and Good Teachers
        
The Uncertain Impact of Merit Pay for Teachers
        
The Granddaddy State
        
The Ultimate Growth Industry

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EDUCATION REFORM (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); CURRICULA (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); MERIT PAY (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (74%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (72%); NOBEL PRIZES (71%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (71%); BUDGETS (71%); LAYOFFS (69%); HUMAN RESOURCES (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); BUDGET CUTS (64%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (60%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (60%) Daily Economist; Education; Nancy Folbre; standardized testing; teacher evaluation; teachers; teaching; Brill, Steven; Performance Evaluations (Labor); Teachers and School Employees; Class Warfare: Inside the Fight to Fix America's Schools (Book); Today's Economist

PERSON: Brill, Steven

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011



808 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 151 words

HEADLINE: When Inflation Was Good

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Remember the 1940s.

 BODY:
Inflation hawks, including Paul Volcker in today's NYT, often invoke the supposed lessons of history, to the effect that inflation is always harmful and always gets out of control.
But that's a selective reading of history, and it skips the most relevant examples.
Early on in this crisis, I began wondering why the US didn't relapse into the Great Depression after World War II. And there's a good case that this had something to do with it:
The big rise in prices during and after WWII arguably did a lot to eliminate the debt overhang, making it possible for the economy to enter a sustained, non-inflationary boom.
And this is the relevant history we should be looking at: this isn't your father's slump, it's your grandfather's slump. Volcker, I'm sorry to say, is worrying about refighting the 1970s when we're actually refighting the 1930s. And fighting the wrong war is a good way to lose the one we're in.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (87%); PRICE INCREASES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



809 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Protests Continue, With at Least 6 Arrested

BYLINE: COLIN MOYNIHAN


HIGHLIGHT: The anticorporate demonstrations, which began on Saturday, included nearly 200 people on Monday who gathered to denounce the economic system. They have been met by a strong police presence. 

 BODY:
Updated, 5:22 p.m. | In a continuation of the demonstrations that began on Saturday, nearly 200 protesters marched along Wall Street and other parts of the financial district Monday morning, brandishing American flags and signs denouncing the economic system. At least six of them were arrested.
Office workers heading to their desks passed the protesters on the sidewalks with little incident. At times, the two groups squeezed shoulder to shoulder through narrow passages formed by metal police barricades. 
The first three arrests came on Pine Street, when a police lieutenant ordered that two men wearing ski masks be taken into custody. Officers then arrested a woman wearing a plastic mask on the back of her head. 
The next arrest came a few minutes later on when a deputy inspector standing on Wall Street ordered a man wearing an orange hat to keep moving. The man, who had turned around in a crowded sidewalk just west of Broad Street, spoke to the inspector for a moment, then lifted his hands and said that he was having difficulty moving.
At that, the inspector reached over a curbside barricade, grabbed the man and tried to haul him from the sidewalk onto the street. As the man backed away, the inspector lunged forward, holding onto the man and toppling the metal barricade. The inspector fell to the sidewalk and a moment later the man in the orange hat was also on the ground, being handcuffed. 
The police confirmed that three men and a woman were arrested under provisions that make it illegal for two or more individuals to wear masks. 
Another man was arrested, and the police initially said he was charged with jumping a police barrier and resisting arrest. But a reporter and a photographer for The Times who witnessed and documented the episode between the man in the orange hat and the police did not see him attempting to jump a barrier. Late in the afternoon, the police said the man was charged with committing disorderly conduct by impeding pedestrian traffic, not with jumping a barrier. 
Another woman was arrested around 11:45 a.m. as she was writing in chalk on the sidewalk on Broadway near Zuccotti Park. "They just came up and grabbed her," said Jessica Davis, 19, who identified the arrested woman as Andrea Osborne. The police confirmed a sixth arrest, of a woman, on graffiti charges.
On Saturday, two people were arrested as they tried to enter the building housing the Bank of America while wearing masks, said Paul J. Browne, the chief police spokesman. Those arrested came from several states, including Massachusetts, Michigan, Virginia, New Jersey and Washington State, Mr. Browne said. One person arrested was from Manhattan.
It was the third day of anticorporate protests that were promoted by a range of groups including AdbustersMedia Foundation, an advocacy group based in Canada, as well as a New York City group that called itself the General Assembly. Participants said that the demonstrations were meant to criticize a financial system that unfairly benefits corporations and the rich and undermines democracy.
Organizers said that the protests were inspired by demonstrations in Egypt and Spain and could continue for weeks or even months.
For two nights, protesters have used Zuccotti Park, near Broadway and Maiden Lane, as a staging ground. Hundreds of people gathered there for mass meetings to discuss and plan their actions. They used granite benches inside the park as pantry shelves, piling jars of peanut butter, and bags of apples there along with jumbo-size cardboard containers of coffee.
For two nights, the park was turned into a campsite. Protesters slept wrapped in blankets and sleeping bags, partly insulated from the chilly ground by pieces of cardboard scavenged from nearby stores.
On Monday morning dozens of those scraps of cardboard doubled as signs, duct-taped to part of the park facing Liberty Street and emblazoned with handwritten messages including "Kill the Zombie Banks," "I came here because I am scared for my country," and "End corporate welfare."
Just after 8 a.m. Monday, protesters emerged from the park and began a winding march through the streets of Lower Manhattan, accompanied by police officers equipped with plastic handcuffs and video cameras that they used to record the march.
At times, the marchers congregated at intersections, blowing horns, beating drums and dancing. At one point, near the New York Stock Exchange, a police lieutenant announced through a megaphone that members of the crowd would be arrested for disorderly conduct if they remained there. The crowd then resumed marching, as they chanted "All day, all week, occupy Wall Street."
Among them was Alexander Holmes, 26, from Oakland, California.
"There's a major divide between the rich and the poor in this country," he said. "One in 10 people are unemployed and my vote is nullified by corporate lobbyists."

        
Park Gives Wall St. Protesters a Place to Call Home
        
Wall Street Protesters Broadcast Arrests on Social Media
        
80 Arrested as Financial District Protest Moves North
        
Wall St. Protests Continue, With Arrests at Morning March
        
Financial District Protests Continue as 7 More Are Arrested

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (95%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (91%); POLICE FORCES (90%); ARRESTS (90%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (77%); GRAFFITI (72%); RIOTS (71%) Occupy Wall Street; protests; Wall Street protests; Demonstrations, Protests, and Riots; Police Department (NYC); Financial District (NYC); Wall Street (NYC); Public Spaces

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Occupy Wall Street; Police Department (NYC)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%) Financial District (NYC); Wall Street (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2011



810 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: Rollins Has More Tough Words for Bachmann

BYLINE: GERRY MULLANY


HIGHLIGHT: The political strategist questions the viability of her campaign after the Iowa caucuses.

 BODY:
Visit msnbc.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy
Ed Rollins is at it again. 
The former campaign manager for Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota has questioned his former candidate's ability to campaign beyond Iowa, the first state in the nation to hold a nominating contest.
In an interview on MSNBC, Ed Rollins told Andrea Mitchell that Mrs. Bachmann does not have the money or resources to compete with her better-financed rivals like Mitt Romney and Rick Perry.
"Right now, she's competing hard in Iowa," Mr. Rollins said. But he added that "she doesn't have the ability or resources to go beyond that, Iowa, at this point in time. Where Perry and Romney can go into South Carolina, Arizona and other places."
The criticism of Mrs. Bachmann is hardly the first for Mr. Rollins since he abruptly departed her campaign earlier this month, citing his own health issues. Last week, Mr. Rollins criticized Mrs. Bachmann for repeating a woman's claim that her daughter became "retarded" after receiving an HPV vaccine. 
Aides to Mrs. Bachmann's campaign have said there was no ill will when Mr. Rollins left. And they say he remains an "important" strategic adviser for the presidential campaign.
But in citing Mrs. Bachmann's resource problem, Mr. Rollins was acting more like a television analyst than a campaign spinmeister. By doing so, he put his finger on what may be Mrs. Bachmann's biggest roadblock to actually winning the Republican nomination and the White House.
Her campaign has always said winning Iowa early next year would be critical. But if Mrs. Bachmann is unable to build a national organization in other states, she could end up like Mike Huckabee, whose 2008 campaign quickly ran out of steam after he won the Iowa caucuses that year.
Mr. Huckabee was able to raise money at a healthy clip after his victory, but without having built a national campaign infrastructure in other states, he was quickly overwhelmed by his more well-financed rivals. Mr. Rollins -- a veteran in presidential politics -- seems to be saying the same thing is true for his former client.
The real question may be: why is he saying it now? Advisers over at the Bachmann campaign can't be too happy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); CAUCUSES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (54%) The Caucus

PERSON: MICHELE BACHMANN (92%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); RICK PERRY (72%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



811 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Well)

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2011

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: In a Married World, Singles Struggle for Attention

BYLINE: TARA PARKER-POPE


HIGHLIGHT: About 100 million Americans, nearly half of all adults, are unmarried, according to the Census Bureau - yet they tend to be overlooked by policies that favor married couples. 

 BODY:
Here's a September celebration you probably didn't know about: It's National Single and Unmarried Americans Week.
But maybe celebration isn't the right word. Social scientists and researchers say the plight of the American single person is cause for growing concern.
About 100 million Americans, nearly half of all adults, are unmarried, according to the Census Bureau - yet they tend to be overlooked by policies that favor married couples, from family-leave laws to lower insurance rates.
That national bias is one reason gay people fight for the right to marry, but now some researchers are concerned that the marriage equality movement is leaving single people behind.
"There is this push for marriage in the straight community and in the gay community, essentially assuming that if you don't get married there is something wrong with you," says Naomi Gerstel, a sociologist at the University of Massachusetts in Amherst who has published a number of papers comparing the married and unmarried.
"But a huge proportion of the population is unmarried, and the single population is only going to grow. At the same time, all the movement nationally is to offer benefits to those who are married, and that leaves single people dry."
Yet as she and other experts note, single people often contribute more to the community - because once people marry, they tend to put their energy and focus into their partners and their own families at the expense of friendships, community ties and extended families.
In a report released this week by the Council on Contemporary Families, Dr. Gerstel notes that while 68 percent of married women offer practical or routine help to their parents, 84 percent of the never-married do. Just 38 percent of married men help their parents, compared with 67 percent of never-married men. Even singles who have children are more likely than married people to contribute outside their immediate family.
"It's the unmarried, with or without kids, who are more likely to take care of other people," Dr. Gerstel said. "It's not having children that isolates people. It's marriage."
The unmarried also tend to be more connected with siblings, nieces and nephews. And while married people have high rates of volunteerism when it comes to taking part in their children's activities, unmarried people often are more connected to the community as a whole. About 1 in 5 unmarried people take part in volunteer work like teaching, coaching other people's children, raising money for charities and distributing or serving food.
Unmarried people are more likely to visit with neighbors. And never-married women are more likely than married women to sign petitions and go to political gatherings, according to Dr. Gerstel.
The demographics of unmarried people are constantly changing, and more Americans are spending a greater percentage of their lives unmarried than married. While some people never marry, other adults now counted as single are simply delaying marriage longer than people of their parents' generation did. And many people are single because of divorce or the death of a spouse. About one-sixth of all unmarried adults are 65 and older; nearly one-eighth of unmarried people are parents.
The pressure to marry is particularly strong for women. A 2009 study by researchers at the University of Missouri and Texas Tech University carried the title "I'm a Loser, I'm Not Married, Let's Just All Look at Me." The researchers conducted 32 interviews with middle-class women in their 30s who felt stigmatized by the fact that they had never married.
"These were very successful women in their careers and their lives, yet almost all of them felt bad about not being married, like they were letting someone down," said Lawrence Ganong, a chairman of human development and family studies at the University of Missouri.
"If a person is happy being single," he said, "then we should support that as well."
Bella DePaulo, a visiting professor of psychology at the University of California, Santa Barbara, has a term for discrimination against single people, which she calls one of the last accepted prejudices. It is the title of her new book, "Singlism: What It Is, Why It Matters and How to Stop It."
As an example, Dr. DePaulo cites the Family and Medical Leave Act. Because she is single and has no children, nobody in her life can take time off under the law to care for her if she becomes ill. Nor does it require that she be given time off to care for a sibling, nephew or close friend.
Stephanie Coontz, director of research for the Council on Contemporary Families, says policy makers often neglect the needs of single people because their view is outdated - based on the way they themselves grew up.
In researching her latest book, "A Strange Stirring: The Feminine Mystique in American Women at the Dawn of the 1960s," Ms. Coontz found that in the past single people were often called "deviant," "neurotic" and "selfish."
"We do have the tendency to think that there is something special about married people, and that they are the ones who keep community and family going," she said. "I thought it was important to point out that single people keep our community going, too."

        
The Nagging Effect: Better Health for Married Men
        
Sex and the Long-Term Relationship
        
For Some, a Recession-Proof Marriage
        
The Sustainable-Marriage Quiz
        
Attention Disorders Can Take a Toll on Marriage

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (94%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); CENSUS (90%); FAMILY (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); TRENDS (77%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); GAYS & LESBIANS (76%); CHARITIES (72%); US FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (71%); FAMILY LEAVE (71%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (70%); VOLUNTEERS (64%); PETITIONS (60%) marriage; Marriages; Research; Single Persons; Social Conditions and Trends; Well

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2011



812 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 272 words

HEADLINE: $13.5 Million in Incentives Lures a Publishing Company

BYLINE: PATRICK MCGEEHAN


HIGHLIGHT: For the city, the cost of adding 600 new jobs is millions of dollars in financial incentives to Pearson P.L.C.

 BODY:
 What does it cost to persuade a publishing company to move several hundred jobs into the city that calls itself the media capital of the world? The answer Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is expected to give on Monday is at least $13.5 million.
 That is the combined value of the city and state incentives promised to Pearson P.L.C., the London-based publisher of The Financial Times, which plans to relocate 600 workers from the suburbs of the city into Manhattan within three years. The mayor was scheduled to announce the deal Monday morning. 
 City officials said that they offered the breaks on taxes and energy costs to counter a bid by New Jersey to attract more of Pearson's operations. Some of the jobs would be moved to the Hudson Square area of downtown Manhattan from Saddle River, N.J., and some from White Plains, city officials said. Pearson plans to move other jobs to Hoboken, N.J., the officials said.
 The arrangement calls for Pearson to receive $9 million in tax credits over 10 years through New York State's Excelsior Jobs Program and $4.5 million in discounts on energy bills for the company's offices in Hudson Square. That amounts to $22,500 for each job, which city officials said would pay an average salary of $72,000 a year. Pearson plans to apply for other incentives that could increase the cost to the city of attracting the jobs.

        
Obama Jobs Plan Would Boost the City, Comptroller Says
        
Debt Crisis Has Already Hurt Economy, Bloomberg Says
        
Economic Doldrums Look Persistent, Bloomberg Says
        
Welcome to the Annual Circus of Foreign Leaders
        
City's Battle Against Smoking Goes Back Centuries

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); PUBLISHING (92%); CITIES (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (74%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (69%); TAX LAW (69%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (65%); DEBT CRISIS (64%) economy; Labor; Michael R. Bloomberg; Pearson P.L.C.; Bloomberg, Michael R; Labor and Jobs; Financial Times; Pearson PLC; Manhattan (NYC); Pearson PLC|PSO|NYSE; Housing & Economy

COMPANY: PEARSON PLC (84%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Financial Times; Pearson PLC

TICKER: PSON (LSE) (84%); PSO (NYSE) (84%) Pearson PLC; PSO; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (84%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) Bloomberg, Michael R

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011



813 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: S.E.C. Tackles Conflicts in Securitization Deals

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: The proposed S.E.C. rule would prohibit banks and other financial firms from both sponsoring asset-backed securities and betting against the deals. 

 BODY:
Regulators are moving ahead with a plan to rein in conflicts of interest in the securitization market in Washington's answer to dubious Wall Street deals created in the lead up to the financial crisis. 
The proposed rule, unveiled on Monday by the Securities and Exchange Commission, would prohibit banks and other financial firms from both sponsoring asset-backed securities and betting against the deals. The S.E.C. also would crack down on practices that a "reasonable" investor would consider a conflict of interest. 
The rule would have covered deals by both Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase, which created collateralized debt obligations with help from hedge funds that went on to bet against them. The practice drew scrutiny from regulators, who accused the banks of selling investments that were intended to fail. Both firms settled with the S.E.C., with Goldman paying $500 million and JPMorgan paying $153 million. 
"In the aftermath of the financial crisis, it became clear that firms were creating financial products, selling those same products to their customers and then turning around and making bets against those same products they just sold," Luis A. Aguilar, a Democratic member of the S.E.C., said at a public meeting in Washington on Monday. "The proposal under consideration is an important step forward to prohibit this practice and to protect investors from being persuaded to invest in products designed to fail."
The S.E.C.'s new plan is part of a broader overhaul of the securitization market, a central player in the financial crisis. Securities backed by toxic mortgages imploded during the crisis, costing investors billions of dollars. Investors are still shying away from the market, worried that Wall Street provides only sketchy risk disclosures about the deals. 
Earlier this year, the S.E.C. adopted new measures to beef up the disclosures. The agency now requires Wall Street to review the quality of the underlying assets in a securitization deal, including mortgages, credit card debt and student loans. The banks then must disclose their findings to investors.
The rules all stem from the Dodd-Frank Act, the financial regulatory overhauled passed after the crisis. Mary L. Schapiro, the agency's chairwoman, said on Monday that the agency had turned a corner in its Dodd-Frank duties, having proposed or adopted about three-quarters of its roughly 100 rules. 
The S.E.C. unanimously agreed to advance its latest plan to mitigate conflicts of interest on Wall Street, though the agency's sole Republican commissioner said he supported it with "hesitation." 
The plan could "unduly stifle" capital," said Troy Paredes, the Republican commissioner, who added that "room still exists for the S.E.C. to exercise discretion."
While the proposal does spell out a few exemptions for firms that are hedging their bets, it otherwise has sweeping implications for the securitization market. Under the proposal, banks are banned from betting against asset-backed securities for one year after helping to create the deals. In essence, the rule would prevent Wall Street firms from turning a profit while their clients are sustaining losses. 
In certain cases, the S.E.C. would go even further. The agency would prohibit banks from allowing hedge funds and other outsiders to have a heavy hand in creating investments that they bet against, a nod to Goldman and JPMorgan allowing hedge funds to handpick the mortgage-backed security deals. 
When the facts of a case are fuzzy, the S.E.C. seeks to rely on a broad standard for rooting out conflicts of interest. The agency would step in when there was a "substantial likelihood" that sensible investors would view a potential conflict as "important" to their investment decision, according to a summary of the proposed rules. 
The plan is open to public comment for 90 days. Regulators are likely to finalize the rules sometime next year. 

        
Self-Regulatory Group May Gain Power in House Plan
        
S.E.C. Won't Fight Ruling Striking Down Proxy Access

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (91%); SECURITIZATION (91%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (91%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (79%); CONSUMER LAW (79%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); STUDENT LOANS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); ASSET BACKED SECURITIES (58%); HEDGE FUNDS (55%) Dodd-Frank; Dodd-Frank Act; Goldman Sachs; JPMorgan Chase &; Luis A. Aguilar; Mary L. Schapiro; Mortgage-Backed Securities; S.E.C.; Troy Paredes; Schapiro, Mary L; Banking and Financial Institutions; Collateralized Debt Obligations; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Securities and Exchange Commission; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (95%) Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: MARY L SCHAPIRO (89%) Schapiro, Mary L

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



814 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 271 words

HEADLINE: On Our Radar: Asian Climate Refugees

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Most at risk in future decades are people living on low-lying islands like the Maldives, researchers say.

 BODY:
More than 30 million people in Asia were displaced last year by environmental and weather-related disasters, the Asian Development Bank warns. It predicts that climate change will uproot tens of millions more through sea-level rise, droughts, floods and food shortages in decades to come, and that governments must start to prepare. [The Guardian]
Twelve previously unknown species of night frogs have been found in remote rain forests in western India, a new study in a zoological journal says, and three that had not been seen for decades have been rediscovered. Researchers hope that the findings will bolster support for protection of the Western Ghats ecosystem, known as a biodiversity hot spot. [Mother Nature Network]
The exit of Siemens from the nuclear energy business leaves Rosatom, the state-run Russian nuclear corporation, on its own in competing against multinationals led by companies in the United States, Japan and France. The partnership with Siemens had been viewed as crucial to Rosatom's international credibility. [Reuters]
The New England cottontail rabbit, already no longer found in Vermont, has nearly vanished from Rhode Island and New Hampshire and exists in only negligible populations in Massachusetts, Connecticut, Maine and New York, biologists say. No clear reason exists for the sharp decline, which has been under way for decades. [Planet Ark]

        
Film on Climate Refugees Strikes a Chord
        
On Our Radar: India's Warmest Year on Record
        
On Our Radar: Republicans Urge Opening of Arctic Refuge to Drilling
        
Ancient Rain Forests Found Upside in Heat Stress
        
National Research Council Calls for Climate Action

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); DISPLACED PERSONS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); MAMMALS (90%); BIODIVERSITY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); REFUGEES (90%); DROUGHT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (90%); WEATHER (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (78%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); RAIN FORESTS (76%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (76%); ZOOLOGY (76%); BIOLOGY (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (73%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); MOUNTAINS (71%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (68%) Biodiversity; climate change; climate refugees; cottontail rabbit; Drought; Floods; India; night frogs; Nuclear Energy; Rosatom; siemens; Breaking News; human rights; land use; Living; Politics and Policy; Science; Weather Extremes

COMPANY: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (91%); LIVEDEAL INC (69%); NUCOR CORP (69%); SIEMENS AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (84%); NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (54%)

TICKER: ATB (ASX) (91%); LIVE (NASDAQ) (69%); NUE (NYSE) (69%); SIN (SWX) (56%); SIE (LSE) (56%); SIE (FRA) (56%); SIE (BIT) (56%); SI (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (91%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (69%); NAICS331513 STEEL FOUNDRIES (EXCEPT INVESTMENT) (69%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (69%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (69%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST INDIA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (78%) ASIA (94%); INDIA (93%); MALDIVES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); ARCTIC (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%); FRANCE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



815 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Quad)

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2011

SECTION: SPORTS; basketball

LENGTH: 2758 words

HEADLINE: The Geography of College Football Fans (and Realignment Chaos)

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: The possible realignment of college football conferences raises a host of interesting questions about fan loyalty.

 BODY:
Surveys find that about one-quarter of the United States population, or between 75 and 80 million people, follow college football regularly. But which teams do they align themselves with?
This question is not easy to answer, but we're going to make an effort to resolve it, and then use the results to shine a light on college football's increasingly complicated realignment picture.
The premise of the study is this: take the 210 television media markets in the United States, figure out how many college football fans they have, and then allocate them between the 120 current Football Bowl Subdivision programs.
The first part of the problem isn't as easy as you might think, because enthusiasm for college football varies radically across different parts of the country -- far more than for other sports.
One way to estimate the regional variances is to look at Google search traffic. For instance, according to Google Insights for Search, the term "college football" is searched for about 5 times as often in Birmingham, Alabama as it is in New York City, relative to overall search traffic.
In other words, on a per-capita basis, there are probably about 5 times as many football fans in Birmingham as there are in New York. So although the New York media market is about 10 times larger, it has fewer than twice as many college football fans as Birmingham.
New York, because of its very large population, is still the largest market in the country for college football. But only barely: Atlanta has nearly as many college football fans, for instance, based on an extrapolation from the Google data, while Dallas (and even Birmingham) aren't far behind.
The second part of the challenge is dividing the fans in each market between the 120 F.B.S. schools.
One effort to study this is through something called the CommonCensus Sports Map Project, an online survey that asked fans to pick which college football team they're most loyal to as well as to enter their geographic coordinates. After having collected more than 30,000 responses over the past several years, this has allowed the CommonCensus folks to divide the country up between the different college teams into what looks like a Jackson Pollock painting.
The CommonCensus data also allows you to zoom in on any particular region, and develop an estimate of how fan loyalties are divided in any particular part of the country.
Because this survey is not quite scientific -- although the CommonCensus curators have made some effort to screen out 'spam' responses -- I've adjusted the results based on a comparison to the college football revenues received by each team, according to disclosure data filed with the federal government. Teams that had a significantly higher- or lower-than-expected number of fans in the CommonCensus results in comparison to their revenues had their results adjusted accordingly. (The team affected most profoundly by this is Arkansas State, which was rather popular in the CommonCensus poll but which brings in few revenues from college football and doesn't usually sell out its small stadium.)
There are a few other kinks to work out. The CommonCensus poll did not include Western Kentucky, a relatively new F.B.S. program, as one of its choices. (I assigned it half of its home market of Bowling Green, Ky., as well as small portions of Louisville and Lexington.) And it doesn't provide data for Hawaii and Alaska (I gave most of the former to the University of Hawaii while ignoring the latter -- sorry Alaskan football fans.)
Nevertheless, this allows us to develop an estimate of how many fans there are for each team -- and where they are located.
The most popular team in New York, for instance, is Rutgers. They have about 600,000 fans in New York City. That isn't bad, but it represents only about 20 percent of college football fans in New York (in addition to some competing teams like Syracuse, many New Yorkers are transplants and bring their football loyalties with them). It also represents only about 3 percent of New York's overall population.
The contrast might be something like Omaha, Neb. It's a much smaller market -- but it's far more football-avid than New York, according to the Google data. And it is dominated by one team, Nebraska, which has in excess of a 70 percent market share. Thus, Nebraska has about two-thirds as many football fans in Omaha as Rutgers does in New York, even though the market is about 18 times smaller.
If you add up these results across all 210 markets, the three most popular teams are the three that also usually have the largest home attendance: Ohio State, Michigan, and Penn State. (Ohio State is ranked first in the country with about 3.1 million fans.)
These teams get to have their cake and eat it too, dominating a series of smaller markets while also scoring points in some relatively large ones like Philadelphia and Detroit -- and having large enough alumni bases that they even have some reach in places like New York.
Following these three teams are Notre Dame -- and then six southern schools, led by Texas and Texas A&M. Two teams from Alabama manage to make the top ten because the state's football avidity is more than enough to make up for its mid-sized population.
This approach isn't going to be perfect -- unless you were willing to spend literally hundreds of thousands of dollars on a scientific survey of college football fans, you're going to have to resort to some educated guesses.
Nevertheless, it ought to provide us with some insight. The S.E.C.'s interest in Texas A&M becomes easier to understand once you recognize that the Aggies have among the largest fan bases in the country. The fact that Notre Dame's fans are dispersed throughout the country explains why they've been loathe to join a conference. And that the West Coast is less enthusiastic about football than other parts of the country, making the Pacific-12 a harder sale to the television networks, explains why the conference is going to great lengths to expand into football-crazy states like Texas.
Let's review the results on a conference-by-conference basis with an eye toward realignment. Conferences are listed in order of their aggregate number of fans based on their current configurations.
Big Ten
The Big Ten can afford to be picky. Ohio State, Michigan and Penn State are the three most popular college football teams in the country, according to our study. Seven Big Ten teams, including new addition Nebraska, rank in the top 20 nationally. And all but one Big Ten school is in the top 50, the lone exception being Northwestern, which has the Chicago market and strong academics going for it.
The only plausible additions that would allow the Big Ten to improve upon its average of about 1.5 million fans per team are Notre Dame (2.3 million fans) and Texas (also 2.3 million). But good luck adding those schools.
Missouri, with 1.1 million fans -- about as many as Nebraska -- wouldn't be far from the league average. Kansas (0.8 million) would be more of a stretch from a football standpoint but could bring in substantial college basketball revenues.
There's also long been talk of the Big Ten expanding into the Notheast. But Rutgers (0.9 million fans) and Connecticut (0.6 million) are only middling targets on their own merits because of the relatively low enthusiasm for college football in the region (the same would have gone for Syracuse or Pittsburgh, which just decided to join the A.C.C.).
Then again, we estimate that there are about 0.6 fans of the current Big Ten schools in the New York City market alone, so a lot of people might tune in hoping to see one of these schools lose.
One outside-the-box target: Virginia Tech. In addition to its natural (and quite avid) fan base in western Virginia, it also has some reach into Washington, D.C. and other relatively populous markets -- enough for it to rank 13th in the country with 1.3 million fans.
S.E.C.
The S.E.C. has few large media markets -- Atlanta's Georgia Tech is in the A.C.C., as is the University of Miami. But if it adds Texas A&M, it will be up to 15.6 million fans total, just barely behind the Big Ten (17.5 million). The enthusiasm for college football in the Southeast and a lot of mid-sized markets with decent population growth adds up to a very valuable brand -- as, of course, does the exceptional quality of the product on the field.
Still, the S.E.C.'s average of about 1.1 million fans per team -- not counting Texas A&M -- sets a slightly lower bar than the Big Ten's. Clemson (1.8 million fans), Georgia Tech (1.7 million) or Virginia Tech would improve upon it, while Missouri and West Virginia (1.0 million) are aren't far from the league average and would do more to expand the conference's geographic footprint.
A.C.C.
The A.C.C. had about 900,000 fans per team prior to adding Syracuse and Pittsburgh, although with a wide range between the football-oriented schools on its southern frontier and some others that are better known for their basketball. Wake Forest, for instance, with only about 150,000 fans, has the smallest football fan base of any automatic-qualifying school.
New additions Syracuse and Pittsburgh actually come in slightly below the current league average, although not by much, and the league's move to add them is understandable. Having added those two schools, there's no reason the A.C.C. wouldn't be interested in Connecticut and Rutgers, which have similarly-sized fan bases.
Big 12
Even with the losses of Texas A&M, Nebraska and Colorado, the Big 12 -- as it stands on paper today -- still has some football muscle, with about 8.1 million fans between the remaining 9 schools. Football is a big deal in this part of the country.
The conference's survival would be in grave danger, of course, if Texas and Oklahoma were to leave as well. And there aren't very many attractive expansion targets. Brigham Young, ranking 43rd in the country with about 700,000 fans, would be appealing enough from an economic standpoint. But schools like S.M.U., Houston and Rice have very small fan bases -- under 200,000 each -- in the extremely competitive market for Texas football.
One wonders if there isn't some second-guessing about T.C.U. -- scheduled to join the Big East next year -- which also has to battle against other Texas teams but does a little better with about 400,000 fans.
If the Big 12 were to collapse, Iowa State, Kansas State and Baylor might have trouble latching on elsewhere: their fan bases each rank outside the top 50 nationally.
Pacific-12
The Pacific-12 plays plenty of good football, but the low avidity of college football fans in the Western United States means that it's in the second-tier as a television product: only U.S.C. and U.C.L.A. have at least 1 million decided fans each. Despite their strong performance on the field, meanwhile, Washington and Oregon rank outside the top 40 in terms of their fan footprint. And other conference schools, like Oregon State, Stanford and Washington State, do poorly by major-conference standards.
As compared to these teams, new additions Colorado (0.5 million fans) and Utah (0.4 million) look tolerable -- but their fan bases are likewise middling by national standards.
On the other hand, the Pacific-12's latest targets -- Texas, Oklahoma, Texas Tech and Oklahoma State -- have about 5.1 million fans between them, which would expand the conference's aggregate fan base by almost 70 percent. No wonder the Pacific-12 might be willing to make some academic and geographic compromises in order to get them.
Big East
Even before losing Pittsburgh and Syracuse, the eight Big East teams had only about 5.3 million fans between them -- well below that of the other major conferences.
T.C.U., when it is added next year, won't help matters much: it will bring only about 400,000 fans, ranking ahead of only Cincinnati and Louisville among current members.
Nor does the Big East have many good options as it tries to regroup. Assuming that other major-conference programs won't be interested in it, the league could look toward the University of Central Florida, which has a decent base of about 500,000 fans, or even East Carolina (350,000 fans), but neither are premium brands.
Temple, essentially booted out of the conference in 2004 after failing to bring in enough revenue, might now seem like one of the least-worst options now. It only has about 200,000 football fans but at least brings the Philadelphia media market and good basketball. The Big East could also try to pressure Villanova, a member of the league for basketball, to upgrade its competitive football program to the F.B.S. level.
Even Marshall, Memphis or the University of Buffalo, also with about 200,000 fans each, could get a look if the conference were desperate to stay intact. So in theory could the service academies: Army has a radio affiliate in New York City and a proud football heritage.
Independents
Here's one of those cliches that turns out to be valid: Notre Dame has a highly nationalized fan base. Its best markets -- by the total number of fans, not market share -- are New York, Chicago and Boston, each of which rank ahead of its native market of South Bend. It also has decent numbers of fans in markets as far afield as Los Angeles and Washington.
It's no wonder, then, that the school has been reluctant to join a conference, which could limit its national exposure.
Brigham Young, as we mentioned, would be an attractive-enough addition for a conference like the Big 12. With about 700,000 fans, it ranks behind 42 automatic-qualifier schools -- but ahead of 27 of them.
But it may instead be the case that the ranks of independent schools will expand rather than contract. West Virginia, for instance, was an independent for most of its history until 1990 and if it were an odd-team-out under realignment it could look toward that option again.
We'll proceed very quickly through the remaining conferences.
Conference U.S.A.
In theory -- but possibly not in practice -- the most appealing targets here might not be those schools like Memphis or Houston that play second or third fiddle in a major market, but instead those like the University of Central Florida, East Carolina or Southern Mississippi that have built up decent fan bases in rural and exurban areas.
Mountain West
The pending additions of Hawaii, Fresno State and Nevada will bring in a combined 700,000 fans, making up for the loss of T.C.U. (400,000 fans). As compared to the other minor conferences, the Mountain West isn't in terrible shape, although one assumes that recent addition Boise State -- now the blue-chip member of the conference both competitively and economically -- would jump at any opportunity to improve its lot in life. (Boise is a small market but has become very football-avid with the success of the Broncos.)
Sun Belt
Two things the Sun Belt Conference has going for it: it's in the right part of the country for college football, and its teams are sufficiently obscure that they aren't likely to be targets of raids from other conference -- although Troy has decent numbers of fans.
Mid-American
A couple of these teams, like Temple and Buffalo, are in reasonably-sized markets, but they lack sufficient market share to be valuable economic entities.
Western Athletic
If the Big East or Big 12 think they have it rough, their position is enviable as compared to that of the Western Athletic Conference. Boise State is already gone, and the three remaining W.A.C. teams with the largest fan bases -- Hawaii, Fresno State and Nevada -- will be following them into the Mountain West Conference next year. The 5 surviving members of the conference have an average of only about 100,000 fans each.
***
Of course, the question that an analysis cannot address is whether through expansion a conference can become more than the sum of its parts -- or if it instead risks becoming less.
The only two conferences that can feel completely secure right now are the Big Ten and the S.E.C..
They're the two that have taken the most conservative attitude toward expansion over the past decade or two, waiting for programs of the caliber of Penn State, Nebraska and Texas A&M to become interested before increasing their ranks. They've been rewarded with extreme loyalty among their fan bases. In a sport where rooting interests are so highly localized, that goes a long way toward explaining their success.

        
Auburn Coach Criticizes HBO Report
        
Quad Q.& A.: Texas Coach Mack Brown
        
Quad Q&A: Stanford Quarterback Andrew Luck
        
UConn Quarterback Has Plenty of Tricks
        
Top Recruit Impressed by Clemson's Class

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (96%); SPORTS FANS (92%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); GEOGRAPHY (89%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SPORTS REVENUES (73%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%) Football; realignment; College Athletics; Colleges and Universities; Baylor University; Big 12 Conference; Big East Conference; Big Ten Conference; Boise State University; East Carolina University; Fresno State University; Georgia Institute of Technology; Google Inc; Ohio State University; Pacific-12 Conference; Pennsylvania State University; Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey; Syracuse University; Temple University; Texas A&M University; University of Central Florida; University of Notre Dame; Alabama; Atlanta (Ga); Birmingham (Ala); Colorado; Hawaii; Houston (Tex); Memphis (Tenn); Nebraska; Nevada; Oklahoma; Philadelphia (Pa); Pittsburgh (Pa); Texas; West Virginia; Google Inc|GOOG|NASDAQ

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (70%)

ORGANIZATION: PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (91%); BAYLOR UNIVERSITY (84%); TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (84%); BIG TEN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CENTRAL FLORIDA (84%); BIG EAST ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (84%); TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (84%); FRESNO STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (84%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (84%); BOISE STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (84%); EAST CAROLINA UNIVERSITY (84%) Baylor University; Big 12 Conference; Big East Conference; Big Ten Conference; Boise State University; East Carolina University; Fresno State University; Georgia Institute of Technology; Google Inc; Ohio State University; Pacific-12 Conference; Pennsylvania State University; Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey; Syracuse University; Temple University; Texas A&M University; University of Central Florida; University of Notre Dame

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (70%) Google Inc; GOOG; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (95%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (92%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%) ALABAMA, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) Alabama; Atlanta (Ga); Birmingham (Ala); Colorado; Hawaii; Houston (Tex); Memphis (Tenn); Nebraska; Nevada; Oklahoma; Philadelphia (Pa); Pittsburgh (Pa); Texas; West Virginia

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



816 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2011

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: Inside Amazon's Very Hot Warehouse

BYLINE: DAVID STREITFELD


HIGHLIGHT: A newspaper in Allentown, Pa., describes the grim working conditions inside a local Amazon warehouse. 

 BODY:
Amazon.com did not create the notion of buying things online, but it has done more than any other retailer to move the experience into the mainstream. It has exceeded its customers' expectations so often it must constantly struggle to top itself. "At first people were incredulous that the mouse on their computer was connected to their doorbell," the Amazon executive Russell Grandinetti said recently. "Now they say: 'It's been 12 hours. Where's my stuff?' "
All that stuff doesn't magically fly to your house, even if the goal is to have it seem that way. The Morning Call, a daily newspaper in Allentown, Pa., delivered a grim picturelast weekend about what it is like to work in the local Amazon warehouse, sorting material for delivery to millions of eager customers. In eastern Pennsylvania, like just about everywhere else, jobs are lacking, and Amazon is one of the few places that is hiring. Many workers are brought on by a staffing company as temporary workers ("Are you interested in working in a fun, fast-paced atmosphere earning up to $12.25 per hour?" the ad asks.) This transient status gives them little incentive to complain, even as the heat boiled upward over the summer. The result was an environment that, one employee told the paper, resembled "working in a convection oven while blow-drying your hair."
In a lengthy and heavily reported article, The Call said a warehouse employee contacted the Occupational Safety and Health Administration on June 2 to report that the heat index in the warehouse had reached 102 degrees, and that 15 workers had collapsed. The employee also said workers who were sent home because of the heat received disciplinary points.
Eight days later, the paper said, an emergency room doctor at a local hospital saw enough Amazon employees suffering from heat-related injuries to call OSHA and report "an unsafe environment."
So many ambulances responded to medical assistance calls at the warehouse during a heat wave in May, the paper said, that the retailer paid Cetronia Ambulance Corps to have paramedics and ambulances stationed outside the warehouse during several days of excess heat over the summer. About 15 people were taken to hospitals, while 20 or 30 more were treated right there, the ambulance chief told The Call.
OSHA, which investigated conditions at the warehouse, told Amazon that the way the warehouse was run had "the potential to adversely impact" employee safety and health.
In a statement Monday, Amazon said, "the safety and well-being of our associates is our number one priority." It stressed it took emergency actions during the various heat waves, including shutting down the warehouse three times, but did not specifically challenge any of The Call's extensive reporting.
Investors were undaunted; in the challenging Internet economy, this is the exact way they want companies to be run. On a down day for the market, the retailer's stock rose $2.39 on Monday to a new high of $241.69, giving Amazon a market value of $110 billion.

        
Amazon Backlash
        
Questions for Amazon on Privacy and the Kindle Fire
        
Amazon Offers a New Way to Shop - on an iPad
        
How E-Commerce Sites Stack Up
        
Another Start-Up Tries to Sell Wine Online

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (87%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (85%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (78%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (74%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (69%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (68%); HOSPITALS (67%); PARAMEDICS (67%); WEATHER (66%); HEAT STRESS DISORDERS (65%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (64%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (64%) Amazon; E-Commerce; osha; Computers and the Internet; Amazon.com Inc; Amazon.com Inc|AMZN|NASDAQ

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Amazon.com Inc

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (84%) Amazon.com Inc; AMZN; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (84%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (88%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012



817 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1718 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Small Business: Spending More on Gas but Still Stalled

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Plus: Where do you turn for honest feedback?

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.
Jobs: The Government To The Rescue!
Obama touts the benefits of his job bill for small businesses and says he would sign a partial version of the American Jobs Act. Casey Mulligan says that a payroll tax cut will create jobs. The National Small Business Association's president says the plan has the potential to help but the measures are temporary. Scott Gerber says the most important part of the bill might be a little-noticed provision that would allow young entrepreneurs to collect unemployment insurance while they start companies. A small-business owner doesn't see anything in the proposal that "remotely resembles a solution." Here's why more mid-Atlantic companies aren't hiring. Darlene Horton explains how an employer-side payroll tax reduction will affect small businesses. An unemployed entrepreneur sings a song.
The Deficit: Nothing New
Bruce Bartlett explains how to raise revenue without raising taxes. The Congressional Budget Office's chief warns the debt panel that spending cuts could slow recovery, but the panel appears to be coming up with nothing new.
The Data: Spending More On Gas


American motorists are on a pace to spend a record amount on gasoline this year. The Philadelphia Fed manufacturing index improves less than expected. Industrial production and capacity utilizationincreased slightly in August. Both consumer prices and weekly unemployment claims rise. Retail sales stall and holiday shoppers are expected to spend less this year. Chargers fans show their honesty.
The Economy: Easy Bake's Bulb Goes out
The National Federation of Independent Business reports that optimism in August was thelowest since July 2010. The poverty raterises to 15.1 percent. A typical male worker makes less nowthan he did 43 years ago, but Playboy Magazine tries to ease the pain. Easy Bake Oven turns off the light bulb. Blogger Doug Short says, absent a huge push into deficit spending, "the economic growth of the U.S. has been declining rapidly over the past 30 years."
Starting Up: They're Staying Up All Night
The Startup America Partnership unveils a new online platform and $330 million worth of product and service commitments to help early stage companies. Christopher Beam reports that out in Silicon Valley the Steve Jobs and Mark Zuckerbergs of the future are staying up all night writing code in their dorms. Prasad Thammineni says start-ups are the latest pop-culture craze. Hermione Way wants to take you and your start-up on a date. A few innovative start-ups are capturing customer information in a ground-breaking way. Mark Suster explains why your start-up doesn't need a chief operating officer.
Red Tape Update: It's Regulation Nation
The Internal Revenue Service wants to make sure small businesses know about that the new federal tax credit on health insurance. Fox News decries our regulation nation. Here's everything you need to know about the 12 Republican candidates in one minute. Obama pledges to speed up payments to small businesses (but will it really mean billions for small businesses?). A snake salesman pleads against regulation.
Marketing: Can't You Read The Sign?
Older Internet users are driving mobile social adoption. Christian Gaillard explains why e-mail is dying: "With e-mail usage up more than 22 percent for users aged 55 and older, younger segments of consumers are trending towards instant messaging, social media and entertainment. This is most notably manifesting in a 'whopping' 59-percent drop in time spent on Web-based e-mail among 12-17 year olds." Carol Tice offers a cautionary tale for any business sending e-mails to customers. Maciej Ossowski explains how to avoid the spam folder in 10 easy steps. Are signs the leading method for customer generation? Marketingprofs.com lists three ways to avoid disastrous customer service. Elaine Fogel wonders if social media has reached its peak. A cool video shows why selling is such hard work. This presentation has some amazing social media stats. The good news is that (phew!) Clothes Encounters is NOT breaking up.
Companies: I.B.M.? Still Here!
Watson is hired to make medical decisions. Lisa Barone lists four social media lessons we can learn from I.B.M. An I.B.M. study shows which cities are the most painful for commuting drivers. Where has I.B.M. been this summer
Management: The Angry Bear Is Angry With Volunteers
David Horne suggests scheduling "do not disturb" time to increase your productivity. Sonia Simone asks whether you are ready to make a trade: "On March 3, 2009, I traded boredom for stress. That's the day I left my day job. There hasn't been even one hour when I wanted to un-do that trade." Eric Barker lists 10 things you need to knowabout productivity. The Angry Bear is angry with people who volunteer at for-profit hospitals.
Events: A Medal And A Beer
The New York Enterprise Report's Small Business Awards are coming up. The UPS Store has a special small-business campaign. The general public can get an insider's look at Boston's start-up scene at this month's MassChallenge Startup Showcase. A Medal of Honor recipient has a beer with the president.
Ideas: Swag Means Having Confidence and Style
An app is developed to help customers shop at flea markets. Tim Berry says success brings detractors. If swag now means confidence and style, this fan has it. Wait, this waiter has even more!
Your People: Take Two Tablets, and ...
Googletakes on Bing and Orbitz. Amanda DiSilvestro explains how to send your employees on their business trips without breaking the bank (have you seen this hotel clerk?). Do tablets improve employee productivity and work/life balance? A study finds that 50 percent of small-business employees are working outside the office, with a quarter of staff out at any given time. Gallup says American workers are unhappy with 11 aspects of their jobs. Women's anxieties are at an unprecedented level (but this lady's not biting her nails).
Around The States: The Fastest Growing Cities
Seattle votes to require companies to provide paid sick leave. Hidden Hills, Calif., and Chevy Chase, Md., have the country's richest populations. Goldman Sachs brings help to Chicago small businesses. North Dakota's oil production is off the charts. These 10 cities grew the fastest in 2010.
Around the World: The Smallest Small-Business Sector
Did you know that the United States has the smallest small-business sectoramong wealthy countries? A small-business owner explains how she opened up an office in a war zone. Data show that there is wide demand for American-made products and services outside the United States. Simon Montlake says Burma is open for business. DHL introduces a campaign to help small businesses ship internationally. Greece vows to meet its debt obligations, and both Germany and France pledge their support. Turkey plans to triple trade with Egypt. Neil Cavuto tells us what we need to know about China right now: "We're desperate to come up with ways to save cash and they're desperate to find ways to spend cash." Giant crabs invade Antarctica. HSBC Bank introduces a service to help American companies do business internationally.
Finance: Online Is Up, Mobile Lags
The American Banker Association says that online banking surges, but mobile banking lags. The Small Business Administration has an app for small-business resources. Cross-selling is a dudso far for advisers and banks. Bank of America lays off 30,000. Citigroup cuts its third-quarter forecast for the financial sector. Vanguard announces a small-business 401(k).
Technology: Windows Keeps Selling
Microsoft unveils a radically redesignedWindows 8 and says that Windows 7 has sold 450 million copies, the fastest-selling version of Windows ever. Pam Baker explains how to find a small-business "VAR." Angela West lists six ways Amazon book-streaming could help small business. New research from the backup service Carbonite shows a majority of small-businesses are not prepared for a data disaster. A start-up promises infinite cloud storage. Kit Eaton says your wristwatch will be the next web portal. PC World offers five good customer-resource applications for small-businesses. Kevin Casey offers five tips for working with managed server providers.
The Week Ahead: Real Estate Numbers
Data on existing home sales, housing starts and building permits will be released this week.
This Week's Best
Reason To Remember The Concorde. Jim Blasingame warns us to beware of the Concorde Fallacy: "Perhaps the hardest decision a small-business owner ever faces is when to end a business pursuit, whether a new product, acquisition or -- and this is the mother of all anguishing decisions -- to close the business. The reason for the anguish is because for every entrepreneur who succumbs to the Concorde Fallacy and stays too long at the dance, there is one who pushed on, one more day, and found success. Being a small-business owner isn't for sissies."
Argument for Lower Taxes. Gregory Mankiw explains how to make businesses invest again: "One obvious step would be a cut in the taxation of income from corporate capital. According to a 2008 study by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, "Corporate taxes are found to be most harmful for growth." Tax reform that reduced the burden on capital income and shifted it toward consumption would improve prospects for long-run growth and, in so doing, encourage greater investment today."
Reason to Seek Honest Feedback. Justin Seeley shares 11 lessons of a start-up "noob." For example: "Take praise with a grain of salt. When I first started, I was so excited and bright-eyed about my idea that 90 percent of the people I pitched were 'too nice' to criticize it. This creates a fake snowball effect. You are already excited about what you are working on and this adds fuel to the fire. It was difficult to get honest feedback until I walked into a V.C. with a slide deck and no traction."
This Week's Question: Where do you turn for honest feedback?
Marks GroupTwitter

        
This Week in Small Business: Uncompetitive but Very Cool
        
This Week in Small Business: A Lot of Paper Clips
        
This Week in Small Business: Watching Armageddon From an Armchair
        
Thinking About a Double Dip
        
This Week in Small Business: Downgrades, Upgrades and Doing Business in Britain

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (94%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); TAX LAW (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); US AMERICAN JOBS ACT OF 2011 (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); CORPORATE TAX (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); TAX AUTHORITIES (72%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (66%); RETAIL SALES (64%); POVERTY RATES (63%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (61%) economy; Small Business; Banking and Financial Institutions; Entrepreneurship; Federal Taxes (US); Labor and Jobs; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Start-ups; United States Economy; Dashboard

COMPANY: MID-ATLANTIC COS LTD (69%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (54%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (54%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (79%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011



818 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1830 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: DEALBOOK


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter.

 BODY:
Tyco to Split Into Three Companies | Tyco International said that it planned to split into three public companies, the latest business to announce a breakup.
As it looks to capitalize on opportunities in its disparate industries, the conglomerate will cleave off its North American residential alarm system unit, its flow control group and its commercial security business into separate companies.
DEALBOOK | NEWS RELEASE
DEAL NOTES
Obama Plans 'Buffett Rule' Tax Plan | President Obama plans to call for a proposal Monday called the "Buffett Rule," which would see wealthy individuals who make more than $1 million a year taxed at the same rate as middle-income earners, The New York Times reports, citing administration officials.
NEW YORK TIMES
Britain's Cable Considers Pay Cap for C.E.O.'s | Britain's business secretary, Vince Cable, is considering proposals to curb the salaries of the country's top chief executives, claiming that companies too often have pay structures that reward failure.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
What Lies in the Closets of British C.E.O. Candidates? | Nineteen candidates for chief executive positions at British financial firms have withdrawn their applications following scrutiny by the county's market regulator since 2009.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
United Technologies Pursues Deal for Goodrich | United Technologies is in talks to buy Goodrich, in what would be the industrial conglomerate's largest acquisition recent memory, people briefed on the matter told DealBook on Friday.
United Technologies has been seeking billions of dollars in financing for a big deal, some of these people said. The two companies began exchanging communications earlier this year.
DealBook 
7 States Join Justice Dept. Suit to Block AT&T's Deal | Seven states, including New York and California, have joined the Justice Department's lawsuit seeking to block AT&T's $39 billion proposed acquisition of T-Mobile USA.
Meanwhile, AT&T has begun approaching its smaller rivals about selling off some of those assets, according to Bloomberg News.
DEALBOOK | BLOOMBERG
Hearings on Capital One's Deal to Begin This Week | The Federal Reserve will begin hearings this week on Capital One's takeover of ING's online banking unit, serving as a test of the Obama administration's "too big to fail" rules.
REUTERS
Peabody and ArcelorMittal Extend Macarthur Bid Deadline | Peabody Energy and ArcelorMittal have pushed back the expiration date on their bid for Macarthur Coal to Oct. 14, following the Australian miner's acceptance of their sweetened $5.2 billion offer.
REUTERS
STX Withdraws From Bid for Hynix | STX of Korea said on Monday that it was withdrawing from a race for Hynix Semiconductor, potentially putting a takeover of the semiconductor maker into jeopardy. STX cited "global economic uncertainty" and the cost of improving Hynix in a regulatory filing.
REUTERS
Tesco Said to Consider Bid for Garden Centre | Tesco, the British supermarket chain, may throw its hat into the ring as Lloyds Banking Group kicks off an auction of the Garden Centre Group, which could fetch as much as $474 million, The Sunday Times reports.
REUTERS | BLOOMBERG
Ireland Outlines New Rules for Media M.&A. | The Irish government has announced that it is readying laws that will give the country's Department of Communications authority over all mergers and acquisitions in the media sector, in a move intended to reflect the pace of changes in the industry.
IRISH TIMES
Will Volkwsagen Bid for Suzuki? | After Suzuki said on Monday that it wanted to end its two-year partnership with Volkswagen, the German carmaker may consider a takeover of its Japanese counterpart, Der Spiegel reported.
REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING 
UBS Raises Trading Loss Estimate to $2.3 Billion | UBS said on Sunday raised its estimate loss from a trader's unauthorized bets on equity index futures to about $2.3 billion.
The Swiss bank explained the lapse in internal controls by saying that "the true magnitude of the risk exposure was distorted because the positions had been offset in our systems with fictitious" transactions.
Meanwhile, British authorities are looking into how UBS failed to detect the losses run up by Kweku M. Adoboli, who was charged with one count of fraud and two counts of false accounting, DealBook reports.
NEW YORK TIMES | UBS | DEALBOOK
Rogue Trading Scars at SocGen Still Fresh | A warning to UBS: Scandals associated with rogue trading do not disappear overnight. The Wall Street Journal considers the case of Societe Generale where, three years after he was found out, the shadow of Jerome Kerviel still hangs.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Wall Street Works Through Stages of Grief in S.&P. Estimates | Wall Street appears to have run through the Kubler-Ross stages of grief over the state of the financial economy, as analysts have finally begun cutting their forecasts for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Credit Suisse Settles With German Prosecutors | Credit Suisse has reached a settlement with German prosecutors to drop investigations into whether the Swiss bank and its employees helped clients illegally avoid taxes. The settlement will cost Credit Suisse 150 million euros in the third quarter.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Foreign Banks Lag Behind Local Competition in China | Foreign lenders are still struggling to turn the same kind of profit as their local rivals in China, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Buyout Firms Turn Eyes From AOL to Yahoo | Top-tier leveraged buyout firms that had been circling AOL have turned their eyes to a bigger and more attractive troubled Internet company, Yahoo. That may leave AOL as a target for smaller private equity players, according to Reuters.
REUTERS
Russia Adds Schwarzman and C.I.C. to Advisory Board | Russia has added the Blackstone Group's Stephen A. Schwarzman and the China Investment Corporation's Lou Jiwei to an adviser board for its nascent private equity fund.
BLOOMBERG
Changes to Chinese Rules May Hurt Foreign Investors | China's securities regulator is calling for a forbearance on the corporate structure that many foreign investors are using to take big stakes in the country's companies, Reuters reported, citing unnamed sources.
REUTERS
Kennedy Wilson Said in Talks for Bank of Ireland Loans | Bank of Ireland is reportedly in exclusive discussions to sell a 1.5 billion euro ($2.07 billion) portfolio of British loan assets to the American real estate firm Kennedy Wilson, which already owns a stake in the Irish lender.
REUTERS | SUNDAY BUSINESS POST
Is Private Equity Bad for Creative Firms? | Creative companies should not sell to private equity firms, the chief of British television production company Hat Trick has told the Daily Telegraph, claiming that a focus on growth is not a good breeding ground for creativity.
TELEGRAPH
HEDGE FUNDS 
John Paulson Is Still Bullish | The hedge fund titan John Paulson may have had a tough time of late, but it doesn't seem to have dented his optimism that America's fortunes (and his) are set to improve, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Columbia Professor Linked to Insider-Trading Case | A doctor known only as "Doctor 1" caught up in a Massachusetts insider trading case against a hedge fund manager, which has spawned a whole new set of regulations in the state, has been identified as an assistant Columbia medical professor, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Hedge Funds Slash Bullish Commodity Bets | Hedge funds are cutting their net long bets on commodities on the assumption that a global "contraction" will result from the European debt crisis and a decline in demand for raw materials will follow, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
I.P.O. Queue at a Four-Year High | There are now 146 companies that have filed for an initial public offering, seeking to raise at least $28.4 billion, The Financial Times reports. That logjam of companies arises from concerns over the volatility of the markets.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Sany Heavy Seeks $3 Billion I.P.O. in Hong Kong | Sany Heavy, a construction machinery company owned by China's richest man, Liang Wengen, is looking to raise $3.33 billion in what would be the second-largest initial public offering in Hong Kong this year.
REUTERS
Three Gorges Dam Firm to Pursue an I.P.O. | Sinohydro Group, the builder of the world's biggest power plant, said on Monday that it planned a $2.7 billion initial public offering of 35 percent of its expanded share capital, confirming earlier reports.
REUTERS
Gobi Coal Owners Weigh I.P.O. or a Sale | The owners of Gobi Coal are looking to either sell the Mongolian miner for as much as $750 million or to list it on the Toronto Stock Exchange, Bloomberg News reports, adding that an I.P.O. is the less attractive option at the moment.
BLOOMBERG
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Sequoia Bets on Rise of Mobile Work Force | Sequoia Capital has ponied up $30 million in a first round of financing for MeLLmo, a developer of mobile applications for businesses.
VENTUREBEAT
When Looking for Financing, Know What It's For | When it comes to granting cash to start-ups, venture capitalists do not go by ideas alone, MemeBurn writes, suggesting that a business needs a clear financing mandate before it can hope to secure money.
MEMEBURN
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Google Goes Under the Antitrust Microscope | Google's chairman, Eric D. Schmidt, is set to testify before a Senate antitrust panel this week, in what is just one of a number of antitrust inquiries into the search giant's practices and deals that have arisen on both sides of the Atlantic.
NEW YORK TIMES
Will Helping Europe Endanger the U.S.? | The New York Times's Gretchen Morgenson argues that the Federal Reserve's move last week to help give European banks access to billions of dollars will inevitably ensure that the troubles of Europe will imperil the United States.
NEW YORK TIMES
The Problem With Living Wills for Financial Firms | There are some snags in the F.D.I.C.'s rules requiring big financial institutions to provide plans about how they would be unwound if they were ever to fail.
DealBook 
Gaming Guggenheim | The Guggenheim name has long been tied to American industry and philanthropy, as well as a rapidly growing investment bank. But prosecutors say that a trio of people also tried to use the fabled family's name to run an investment scam that included the purported sale of $1 billion worth of diamonds.
NEW YORK TIMES
How Will Asset Management Respond to Regulation? | "There's a tsunami of regulation about to break over the [asset management] industry," Steve Smit, head of global services and markets at State Street, tells The Financial Times. The newspaper explores how the sector is set to respond.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

        
Morning Take-Out
        
Morning Take-Out

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (90%); ALARM & DETECTION SYSTEMS MFG (90%); TAKEOVERS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); ELECTRONICS (78%); HOME SECURITY (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); TAX LAW (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); SECURITIES LAW (71%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (70%); AFFLUENT MARKET (70%); ACQUISITIONS (70%); MERGERS (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); LITIGATION (63%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (60%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (60%); INTERNET BANKING (50%) Morning Take-Out; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (84%); PEABODY ENERGY CORP (80%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (75%); BLOOMBERG LP (64%); ARCELORMITTAL SA (63%); SK HYNIX INC (61%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (52%); MACARTHUR COAL LTD (51%)

TICKER: UTX (NYSE) (84%); BTU (NYSE) (80%); TYC (NYSE) (75%); MTS (MCE) (63%); MT (PAR) (63%); MT (NYSE) (63%); MT (AMS) (63%); HY9H (FRA) (61%); 000660 (KSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (80%); NAICS213113 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR COAL MINING (80%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (80%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (75%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (75%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (75%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (75%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (64%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (64%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (64%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (63%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (63%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (61%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (61%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (52%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (52%); SIC1222 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (87%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



819 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: UBS Scandal Is a Reminder About Why Dodd-Frank Came to Be

BYLINE: ADRIENNE CARTER and BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: The case cast a spotlight on banks' risk-taking activities and evoked memories of the financial crisis at a time when new regulations are anticipated. 

 BODY:
Although the UBS trading scandal happened at the London office of a Swiss financial company, big American banks will feel regulatory heat.
When UBS revealed on Thursday that a rogue trader had lost a quantity of money so large that it potentially wiped out profits for the entire quarter, the case cast a glaring spotlight on banks' risk-taking activities and evoked painful memories of the financial crisis. Such blowups had helped bring the system to the brink, forcing governments to bail out banks and prompting a global economic slowdown.
The timing is bad for banks.
In the coming weeks, policy makers are expected to propose new regulations intended to limit federally insured banks from making bets with their own money, according to a government official with knowledge of the process. The rules - part of the Dodd-Frank Act, the regulatory overhaul enacted in the wake of the crisis - take aim at a practice called proprietary trading, in which companies speculate for their own gains rather than for their customers'.
While the industry has been lobbying aggressively to temper those regulations, the rogue trading case could give proponents of the so-called Volcker Rule, which would prohibit proprietary trading, more ammunition. UBS, which stands to lose $2.3 billion on the unauthorized trades, said in its initial four-sentence announcement on the incident that "no client positions were affected." The implication was that the trader was using company money to place his bets.
"As recent events have shown, banks' trading operations have become too poorly policed," said Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, who introduced the ban on proprietary trading in Dodd-Frank along with Senator Jeff Merkley, Democrat of Oregon. The rules "will help prevent banks from making risky bets for their own accounts that could threaten the firm or our economy."
As fodder for advocates of tough regulation, the UBS case is a somewhat ambiguous example. The London police have charged the trader at the center of the scandal, Kweku M. Adoboli, with fraud and false accounting.
If the accusations prove to be true, the Volcker Rule - named after Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman - would not necessarily prevent the same situation from happening at an American bank. The regulations are intended to curtail speculative bets by a company, rather than stop the criminal acts of a single person.
"Compliance programs aren't necessarily crime-detecting initiatives," said Jaret Seiberg, a policy analyst at MF Global.
But the incident does raise questions about risky behavior at banks - and whether the companies have the appropriate systems and controls in place to monitor those activities. While the charges against Mr. Adoboli detail actions dating back to 2008, UBS did not discover any problems until recently.
The UBS scandal also brings into focus the fuzzy nature of proprietary trading.
Like many big Wall Street banks, UBS has shifted away from stand-alone desks that make bets with the bank's money. Under the Volcker Rule, those "prop desks" would be banned at American companies and foreign companies that operate in the United States. (UBS would not be subject to the same rules in its London office, where the incident took place.)
But proprietary style trading still exists in groups that cater to corporations, hedge funds and other big institutions. Such units have become big profit centers for Wall Street banks like Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley.
Mr. Adoboli worked in one of those areas at UBS. As part of the Delta One desk, he helped develop trades for clients, focusing on exchange-traded funds. But he also took speculative bets on various benchmarks, including the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, according to UBS. Those positions violated the firm's risk limits, which he "concealed" by creating "fictitious trades," the bank said.
A spokeswoman for Kingsley Napley, the law firm representing Mr. Adoboli, declined to comment. UBS declined to comment beyond its releases. 
The Delta One desks operate in a gray area, where the line is sometimes blurred between proprietary trading and client activities like market making. A bank, for example, can buy securities from one customer with the intent of selling them to another client. But if the bank holds the assets too long or lets the stake grow too large, it may look more like a proprietary trade. 
"You're never going to be able to craft a rule that permits legitimate market-making activities that our economy desperately needs while at the same time prohibiting proprietary positions," said Mr. Seiberg of MF Global. "That's because one man's market making is another man's prop trading."
Regulators are looking to make the boundaries clearer. After working on a draft of the Volcker Rule for weeks, they now agree on some of the thorniest provisions, including the definition of market making, according to a person with knowledge of the discussions.
But they are still debating how to enforce the regulation. While some are pushing for Wall Street to police itself in proprietary trading activity, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and other policy makers want a tougher crackdown. The agencies could leave open the possibility of a compromise plan for banks to detail their positions to data warehouses, where regulators could keep an eye on the trading. They have also discussed whether to hold executives liable should a bank skirt the rules.
Under the proposal, the definition of market making, at least for now, largely tracks the metric laid out in an earlier report by the Financial Stability Oversight Council, according to the person close to the discussions. For example, positions held for less than 60 days would draw scrutiny, as regulators ensure that the trades are either bona fide hedges or market-making deals.
 It is a tough rule to get just right. Make the regulation too broad and it could prove ineffective at keeping banks from taking on too much risk. Make it too specific, and it could crimp legitimate businesses that bolster the economy. 
"The challenge for regulators is to thread that needle," said Donald N. Lamson, a lawyer at Shearman & Sterling and a former Treasury Department official who helped write the Volcker Rule. "You have to draw a line somewhere."

        
Delta One Desks Are Big Moneymakers
        
JPMorgan Says Dodd-Frank Favors Europe's Banks

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); ACCOUNTING (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%) Carl Levin; Delta One; Dodd-Frank; Dodd-Frank Act; Goldman Sachs; Jeff Merkley; Kweku Adoboli; Morgan Stanley; proprietary trading; UBS; Volcker Rule; Adoboli, Kweku M; Levin, Carl; Merkley, Jeff; Banking and Financial Institutions; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); UBS AG; UBS AG|UBS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: UBS AG (91%); MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UBS AG

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (91%); UBS (NYSE) (91%) UBS AG; UBS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%)

PERSON: CARL LEVIN (90%); JEFF MERKLEY (88%) Adoboli, Kweku M; Levin, Carl; Merkley, Jeff

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



820 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: New Buffett Manager Gets Higher Taxes and Less Pay, by Choice

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSS SORKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Ted Weschler, a rich hedge fund manager, took a pay cut to work for Berkshire Hathaway and says he's happy about it.

 BODY:
How would you feel about taking a pay cut and paying more in taxes?
Meet Ted Weschler. He just did both. And he's happy about it.
You might have heard about Mr. Weschler. He was hired by Warren E. Buffett last week to help invest Berkshire Hathaway's piles of cash.
Mr. Weschler, a successful but little-known 50-year-old hedge fund manager, plied his trade from a small office in Charlottesville, Va., above an independent bookstore, reaping huge returns for his investors, some 1,236 percent over a decade. In the process, his $2 billion fund put him comfortably in the millionaires' club, and at the rate he was going, he was on his way to the more exclusive cadre of billionaires.
Here is a quick measure of his wealth: he paid $2,626,311 in a charity auction to have lunch with Mr. Buffett in 2010. That's how they met. A year later, Mr. Weschler paid $2,626,411 to dine with him again.
In his new job at Berkshire, he is expected to be paid significantly less than he was making. (We'll get to the formula for his compensation in a moment.) And he is going to be giving up a huge tax break. Instead of paying the 15 percent capital gains rate on most of his income like most hedge fund managers and private equity executives, he is going to be taxed at the 35 percent ordinary income level as an employee.
His decision - and his compensation structure - are worth considering as the country weighs President Obama's proposal to increase taxes for the ultra wealthy in what has been called the "Buffett Rule." 
The plan is aimed at ensuring that millionaires pay the same effective rate as middle-income families. In part, it takes aim at the controversial "carried interest" income, or the profits that hedge fund managers and other big investors take home as part of their pay. That compensation is now taxed at the capital gains rate of 15 percent, far below the 35 percent top rate on ordinary income. Mr. Obama hopes to close that loophole. 
Many Republicans have derided the Buffett Rule, saying it would hurt the economy. "If you tax job creators more, you get less job creation," Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, argued on "Fox News Sunday. "If you tax investment more, you get less investment."
Perhaps Mr. Ryan should dine with Mr. Weschler. The view that "millionaires and billionaires" will stop, or slow down, working or investing may be a myth.
"When you have enough money to live the lifestyle you want," Mr. Weschler told me in a brief conversation, money and taxes are less of a consideration than "who you want to work with."
Mr. Weschler - and his colleague Todd Combs, another successful hedge fund manager who joined Mr. Buffett last year - demonstrate that people of great wealth don't necessarily make all decisions based on their own financial bottom line.
"Neither would have voluntarily paid more than 15 percent when working at their hedge fund simply because of the feeling that they were a favored class," Mr. Buffett said. "But neither will feel the least bit abused because the earnings from their daily labors will now be taxed at a higher rate."
Like Mr. Buffett, Mr. Weschler says he doesn't believe the tax loopholes for hedge fund managers make sense. "When my accountant first told me about it," he said he responded "You can't be serious." But he added quickly, "I'm not complaining."
That's not to say he will be paid like a pauper at Berkshire. Mr. Weschler and Mr. Combs will earn seven figures, and potentially more. But they won't make John Paulson money. He reportedly made $5 billion last year.
Unlike hedge fund managers, at Berkshire Mr. Weschler and Mr. Combs don't take home the standard "2 and 20," collecting a 2 percent management fee and 20 percent of all the profits. Instead, Mr. Buffett has tightly linked their pay to the performance of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, a system that some big institutional investors should be pressing hedge funds to adopt. 
"Both Todd and Ted will have performance pay based on 10 percent of the excess return over the S.&P., averaged over multiple years," Mr. Buffett told me. "If the S.&P. averages 5 percent annually in the future, this means that the average hedge fund manager has received a 1 percent performance fee - 20 percent of 5 percent - before Todd and Ted receive anything."
 "Nevertheless, I expect them to make a lot of money," he added. "The difference is that they have to earn it by true investment performance."
In addition, both men receive modest salaries that Mr. Buffett said "will work out to about a tenth of 1 percent" of the assets they manage. "This compares to the 2 percent nonperformance fee which most hedge fund managers charge, even if they are losing money."
Mr. Buffett's critics complain that while he supports higher taxes on the wealthy, Berkshire is structured to pay little in taxes and he has sidestepped Uncle Sam by giving away his wealth.
Some have even suggested that he mail the Treasury a check if he wants higher taxes. The Senate minority leader, Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky half-jokingly said on NBC News program "Meet the Press," "if Warren Buffett would like to give up some of his benefits, we'd be happy to talk about it."
But Mr. Buffett shrugs off the naysayers. "When I ran my partnership in the 1950s-1960s, I was generally taxed at 25 percent, considerably below the rate on similar amounts of ordinary income," he said. "I knew I was getting favored treatment compared to the local doctor, lawyer or C.E.O., but I made no voluntary payments to the Treasury, nor does any hedge fund manager of whom I'm aware."

        
Carried Interest Tax Break Comes Under Fire Again
        
White House Rankles Wall Street With Enterprise Value Tax

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (93%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX INCREASES (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); CHARITIES (71%); INCOME TAX (70%); AFFLUENT MARKET (69%); FAMILY (67%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (65%); US PRESIDENTS (64%) Berkshire Hathaway; Buffett Rule; Capital Gains Tax; Carried Interest; Federal Taxes (US); tax treatment; Taxation; Ted Weschler; Todd Combs; Warren E. Buffett; Buffett, Warren E; Hedge Funds; High Net Worth Individuals; Income Tax; Berkshire Hathaway Inc; Weschler, Ted; Berkshire Hathaway Inc|BRK.A|NYSE; DealBook Column; Financial Services; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (62%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Berkshire Hathaway Inc

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (58%); BRK.A (NYSE) (58%) Berkshire Hathaway Inc; BRK.A; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (62%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (62%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (58%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (93%); PAUL RYAN (76%); BARACK OBAMA (50%) Buffett, Warren E

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



821 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2011

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1600 words

HEADLINE: Life-Changing Learning: Reading and Writing About Educational Experiences

BYLINE: KATHERINE SCHULTEN


HIGHLIGHT: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, the author Junot Diaz, the guitarist Amy Klein and 12 more people told about the educational experiences that changed their lives. Here are ideas for encouraging students to think about their own educational histories.

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York City, the author Junot Diaz, the guitarist Amy Klein and 12 more people from varied backgrounds told The New York Times about the educational experiences that changed their lives for a special issue of the Sunday magazine. 
Here are just a few ideas for using this piece to encourage students to think about their own educational histories and how their lives have, or might be, changed by what they learn.
Before Reading
Have students brainstorm the learning experiences that have influenced lives so far. One way to do this is to invite them to create timelines, brainstorming as many learning experiences from their lives as they can remember and noting them in loose chronological order on a line drawn across a sheet of plain paper. 
Give students 15 minutes and challenge them to jot down notes about at least 10 significant educational experiences they have had in their lives, whether in or out of school, negative or positive. To get them started, you might give a variety of examples from your own life.
Then, have students choose one experience each from their timelines and describe it briefly in small groups or as a whole class. When students have heard several stories, ask them what they noticed. What patterns emerged about how people learn - or how they don't?
Questions

        
Which of the 15 stories in this piece interested you most? Why?

        
What common threads can you identify in any two or more of the stories?

        
What conclusions can you draw from these stories about what makes for the richest or most effective learning experiences? About what makes a good teacher? 

        
Which, if any, of these stories echo in some way an experience you noted on your own timeline?

        
Who else do you wish had been invited to contribute a story to this series? Why?
Activity Ideas for Students
 Learning Experience Story
Challenge yourself to add five new experiences to your timeline, some perhaps inspired by the Times stories you've just read. Then choose one experience and write about it, using one or more of the Times pieces as models. (Teachers might then display the results the way The Times did, by taking photos of each student and posting them next to their stories, online, on classroom walls, in the school library or on a school bulletin board.)
Make a list of the 15 (or five, or three) people you would most want to interview on the question of life-changing learning experiences. This might be a fantasy list of athletes, entrepreneurs, pop stars and politicians past or present, or it could be a list of people in your own life and community about whom you're curious - or, perhaps, a mix of the two. Next, either interview a live person from the list and write up your findings, or, in the case of a fantasy pick, research that person's life to find one or more defining experiences to write up as a short vignette. 
"I have little recollection of what I was taught in my class of 25, but I remember everything I learned in my class of 3," Caterina Fake writes about her childhood experience in a tiny afternoon gifted program, an experience that made her decide to home-school her own daughter. "That model - an adult serving a small number of children, helping them learn what they themselves want to learn - seemed the best, and maybe only, way to learn," she concludes.
Do you agree? Would you want to be home-schooled, or attend a "free school" where you study only what interests you? Do you agree with Bruno Bettelheim who, writes Robert Storr, "recommended that we set out to become dedicated ABD (all-but-degree) students of everything that excited our minds," or do you think students should be much more directed, as they are in traditional schools? 
Investigate various alternative schooling models, from homeschooling to "unschooling" to free schools, and compare them with the ways you have been taught. What aspects of these models do you think should be considered at your school? How? Write a memo to your principal or the local school board outlining your findings. (You might also read the responses by students to our recent Student Opinion question "What Are You Really Learning at School?" to think about where you stand on the question of whether the current culture of testing is inhibiting the development of "life skills.")
Both Lewis Lapham and Pico Iyer describe experiences in which they learned from a seemingly embarrassing or difficult experience. (Both, in fact, describe being foreign students humbled by a British system.) "The world is tough, the system was saying, and to find happiness in it you have to summon resilience, resolve and self-sufficiency," writes Mr. Iyer. Do you agree? When have you been humbled or challenged by an experience for which you were later grateful because it taught you something?
In the same issue of The Times Magazine, Paul Tough writes about "character" education, asking "What if the Secret to Success Is Failure?" We have chosen that for our new Learning Network Reading Club, and we invite you to contribute your thoughts.
Unsurprisingly, several of the contributors wrote about great teachers. Wes Anderson describes "the fantastic Mr. Burris"; Mr. Diaz tells about Mrs. Crowell, his "teacher-friend" who invited him into her library where he found "my first harbor, my first truly safe place in the United States"; and George Saunders speaks of two teachers, a couple, who changed his life: "How many people are incrementally more thoughtful, curious, and open - how many people think slightly better of themselves and their abilities, are more capable of change, love, generosity, rebound - because of these two examples of that precious race, the true teacher?", he asks. 
If there is a teacher who has changed your life, you might post your answer to our recent Student Opinion question "What Teacher Would You Like to Thank?" Or write that person a letter or e-mail to say that you, say, are one of the many "incrementally more thoughtful, curious or open" because of him or her. (Conversely, you might write about a teacher who stood in your way and prevented you from learning all you could ... though perhaps you shouldn't send that letter.)
Patterson Hood, a guitarist and lead singer of the band Drive-By Truckers, writes: "I was a terrible student from about third grade on. I started writing songs at about that exact same time, which couldn't be a coincidence. I wrote a thousand songs by the time I graduated from high school. I would hear a song on the radio and try to write one like it." 
Meanwhile, Michael Bloomberg says that Saturday visits to the Boston Museum of Science "stretched my mind in ways that my schoolwork didn't. They taught me to listen, question, test and analyze."
What things have stretched your mind in ways schoolwork hasn't? What are the things you're obsessed with, in or out of school, that, like Mr. Hood, you want to think about and practice over and over? 
In his book "Outliers," Malcolm Gladwell popularized the notion that successful people, whether Bill Gates or the Beatles, "exceeded or came close to what he calls 'the 10,000-Hour Rule' - the number of hours of practice that a neurologist named Daniel Levitin says are likely required 'to achieve the level of mastery associated with being a world-class expert - in anything.'" What would you be willing to spend 10,000 hours doing? What do you think that could teach you? You might even start an after-school club, or volunteer to teach a class to younger students, to explore the topic with others.
Times journalist and new Washington bureau chief David Leonhardt has the shortest entry in the series. Here it is, in its entirety:
My second-grade teacher, Ms. Sandler, taught me that math was nothing more complicated than a way to describe the world around us. It's a lesson I still use every day.
Look through Mr. Leonhardt's columns from the years when he wrote about economics and find at least three examples in which he used math to explain or describe the real world. What opportunities can you find to apply the math you've learned to something in real life?
Former teacher and current chief executive of Students First, Michelle Rhee, talks about Calvin, the "kinesthetic kid" who could only focus on school if he was moving, and to whom she started to give a daily physical task. "He taught me that all kids learn in wildly different ways and that all children are reachable and teachable," she writes.
In the same edition of The Times, a front-page story, "Autistic and Seeking a Place in an Adult World," describes Justin Canha, a 22-year-old cartoonist and student who is searching for meaningful work with the help of an extraordinary teacher. 
Whom do you know who learns "differently" for any reason? What has this person found that helps, especially to make an educational or work setting a better fit? Go through your own school day mentally and think about what barriers this person might experience that a more traditional learner would not. How can schools be more responsive to a range of learners?
Recent Related Posts:
Lesson Plan | Rocking It Out: Exploring Music Teaching Methods
Student Opinion | What Do You Wish Your Teachers Knew About You?
Student Opinion | What's the Coolest Thing You've Ever Seen in a Museum?
Lesson | Independence Day: Developing Self-Directed Learning Projects
Lesson | Schools of Thought: Localizing National Education Stories

        
Independence Day: Developing Self-Directed Learning Projects
        
Schools of Thought: Localizing National Education Stories
        
What Tech Tools Do Your Teachers Use?
        
Do Your Test Scores Reflect How Good Your Teachers Are?
        
Standard Bearers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (90%); WRITERS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (88%); CREATIVE WRITING (78%); SCHOOL LIBRARIES (77%); HISTORY (76%); POP & ROCK (73%); LIBRARIES (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (67%) Education; learning; school culture; schools; teachers; teaching and learning; Academic Skills; American History; Biographies; Civics; Creative Writing; Culture and Identity; Journalism; Language Arts; Lesson Plans; Literacy Skills; Personal Writing; Social Studies

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



822 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 444 words

HEADLINE: For Obama, Peer Pressure from Nobel Laureates

BYLINE: ELISABETH ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: Nine Nobel peace laureates remind the president that he pledged to help the planet heal, not to help foster heat-trapping emissions through projects like the Keystone XL pipeline.

 BODY:
With his approval rating among American voters at an all-time low, President Obama could use a little support from his peers. But this month nine fellow recipients of the Nobel Peace Prize, including Archbishop Desmond Tutu of South Africa and the Dalai Lama, sent the president a letter urging him to veto the construction of a huge pipeline that would bring bring crude oil from Canada to the United States. 
On Monday, the letter was published as an advertisement in The Washington Post. It reads in part: "The night you were nominated for president, you told the world that under your leadership -- and working together -- the rise of the oceans will begin to slow and the planet will begin to heal. You spoke of creating a clean energy economy. This is a critical moment to make good on that pledge." 
The ad was paid for by the Natural Resources Defense Council and the Nobel Women's Initiative.
The Keystone XL pipeline would bring crude oil extracted from the rock under Canadian forests to the Texas coast for refining, traversing some of the Midwest's most important aquifers en route. 
Although the pipeline would give the United States a more plentiful and secure supply of oil, environmentalists say that it is a bad idea because the process of extracting oil from the rock creates a hefty dose of greenhouse gas emissions and could threaten precious ecosystems. They argue that the United States should be moving toward cleaner sources of energy anyway. 
For much of the past year, the Obama administration has seemed to be dithering on whether to authorize the pipeline. The State Department, which is charged with authorizing pipelines that cross the nation's borders, has twice issued environmental assessment reports that the Environmental Protection Agency criticized as inadequate. The administration is expected to make a final decision by the end of the year.
The Nobel peace laureates say that proceeding with Keystone XL would cause great harm to the planet and be ethically wrong, whatever its economic advantages for the United States. 
The letter concludes: "We urge you to say 'no' to the plan proposed by the Canadian-based company TransCanada to build the Keystone XL, and to turn your attention back to supporting renewable sources of energy and clean transportation solutions. 
"This will be your legacy to Americans and the global community: energy that sustains the lives and livelihoods of future generations," the laureates write.

        
The Keystone XL as Environmental Cudgel
        
U.S. Orders TransCanada to Shut Pipeline
        
Backers Rev Up Oil Sands Campaign
        
Clinton Facing Heat on Oil Sands Pipeline
        
Oil Sands to Raise Emissions, Canadian Report Says

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NOBEL PRIZES (94%); AWARDS & PRIZES (94%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); OIL SANDS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (88%); VETO (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (76%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (74%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (72%); RELIGION (72%); GREENHOUSE GASES (64%) Keystone XL; Nobel Peace Prize; Oil Sands; Pipelines; tar sands; Breaking News; Energy Politics; Politics and Policy

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (56%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); DALAI LAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



823 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Hopefuls Take Early Aim at Obama Deficit Plan

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama's call for tax increases on the wealthy has the potential to refocus the Republican candidates on the man they want to replace.

 BODY:
For weeks, the Republican candidates for president have argued among themselves about Social Security, vaccines for young girls, immigration and the relative economic performances of Massachusetts and Texas.
But President Obama's call Monday for tax increases on the wealthy has the potential to refocus the Republican candidates on the man they want to replace.
In a Rose Garden address Monday morning, Mr. Obama set the terms of the coming debate in Congress by vowing to veto any plan to reduce the deficit that does not include higher taxes on "millionaires and billionaires" to offset cuts in services to programs like Medicaid and Medicare.
In doing so, he also clarified for his Republican rivals the stakes in the presidential election. Even as they bicker -- and they are likely to continue to do so at Thursday night's debate in Orlando, Fla. -- their chief goal is to find a way to use Mr. Obama's falling standing with the American people to oust him from office. 
Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, was the first to seize on the president's remarks, issuing a statement condemning them even before Mr. Obama stood before the lectern, a half-hour late.
"President Obama's plan to raise taxes will have a crushing impact on economic growth," Mr. Romney said in the statement. "Higher taxes mean fewer jobs - it's that simple. This is yet another indication that President Obama has no clue how to bring our economy back."
Rick Perry, the governor of Texas and a rival for the nomination, was not far behind. 
In a statement, Mr. Perry called Mr. Obama's plan "a bait and switch that offers more than a trillion dollars in higher taxes for a promise of temporary tax relief."
"The president penalizes investment when it is needed most, discourages charitable giving and doubles down on a failed government stimulus strategy," Mr. Perry said.
Mr. Romney had been focused like a laser on Mr. Obama for months, hitting him at every opportunity on his handling of the economy. But Mr. Perry's late entrance into the race has diverted Mr. Romney's attention as he seeks to highlight Mr. Perry's record.
Mr. Perry has returned the favor, spending the last several weeks offering increasingly harsh assessments of Mr. Romney's tenure as governor of Massachusetts while defending his books and his own record in office.
The sparring is not likely to end any time soon. But the president's decision to throw down the gauntlet in Washington over taxes has almost certainly turned the Republican contest into a long-running, split-screen event in which all of the candidates will renew their attacks on Mr. Obama.
"The Obama plan fails to provide the certainty employers need to create jobs and the spending and deficit reduction our economy needs, " Mr. Perry added in the statement.
Representative Michele Bachmann also issued a statement that criticized the president's plan for "increasing taxes on job creators." 
"The president's plan to raise taxes on the American people is the wrong policy to create economic growth and jobs and shows he doesn't understand how to turn our economy around," Mrs. Bachmann said.
In his remarks, Mr. Obama did not mention his 2012 rivals as he broadly challenged Republicans in Congress to support what he called a "balanced" plan to reduce the nation's long-term debt, in the process drawing a line that will most likely grow brighter as the presidential election draws nearer.
Mr. Obama called the alternative "unacceptable to me" and "unacceptable to the American people" and pledged that he would "not support any plan that puts all the burden for closing our deficit on ordinary Americans."
"And I will veto any bill that changes benefits for those who rely on Medicare but does not raise serious revenues by asking the wealthiest Americans or biggest corporations to pay their fair share," the president said.
In a public strategy memo last week, David Axelrod, one of Mr. Obama's top strategists, previewed the contrast that the president hoped to draw in the campaign, saying that "when Americans learn the details of the Republican candidates' plans, the choice about America's future will come into clear view."
Public polling suggests that the president may have an edge on some of these issues. Surveys regularly show that majorities of Americans support higher taxes on the wealthy as a way of paying down the nation's deficit.
But the Republican presidential candidates are eager to highlight the president's tax proposals as they battle each other for their party's nomination. Advisers to the Republican candidates believe attacking Mr. Obama's tax policies is a political twofer: it plays well to the Republican base and the Tea Party, and it helps define Mr. Obama for the general election.
Look for those to be the dueling messages that come out of Thursday's debate. 

        
Perry and Romney Change Tone, and Targets
        
Romney Tries to Pin Familiar 'Flip-Flop' Label on Perry
        
Perry Wrestles With His Political History
        
Romney and Perry Unleash Testy Rivalry at Debate
        
Republican Hopefuls Sound Anything But

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX INCREASES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); VETO (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); TAX RELIEF (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); IMMIGRATION (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); MEDICARE (69%); CHARITIES (62%); MEDICAID (55%); CHARITABLE GIVING (50%) 2012 presidential campaign; deficit reduction panel; Republicans; Obama, Barack; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Taxation; United States Economy; Republican Party; Elections

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); RICK PERRY (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%) Obama, Barack; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



824 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 366 words

HEADLINE: Bachmann Takes Aim at Buffett and Obama

BYLINE: TRIP GABRIEL


HIGHLIGHT: In a campaign stop in Iowa, Representative Michelle Bachmann said there was nothing stopping Warren Buffet from writing a check if he wanted to pay more taxes.

 BODY:
SHEFFIELD, Iowa - Representative Michele Bachmann's message to the billionaire who inspired the so-called Buffett Rule is simple. 
"If Warren Buffett believes that he is not paying enough taxes, then he should write a check today to the United States treasury,'' Mrs. Bachmann said Monday. 
She joined her rivals for the Republican presidential nomination in criticizing President Obama's proposal on Monday to cut more than $3 trillion from the deficit over 10 years through a combination of spending cuts and higher taxes on the wealthy.
Mrs. Bachmann was making the first of three stops over two days at manufacturing companies in Iowa, during which her focus is jobs. First up was a tour of the Sukup Manufacturing Company, which makes the shiny steel grain storage bins that are familiar sights around the state. 
In a variation of Congressional Republicans' accusations that the president's proposals to increase taxes on millionaires amounted to "class warfare,'' Mrs. Bachman accused Mr. Obama of waging "warfare on the millions of small businesses like the Sukup company.'' 
As she has in the past, Mrs. Bachmann said the government should look only at spending cuts, not increasing revenue. She reiterated proposals she has made on the campaign trail to revive the economy: lower corporate taxes, repeal "job-killing" regulations and "Obamacare," and grant American companies a holiday to bring overseas earnings home without tax consequences. 
Mrs. Bachmann was returning to the state that has provided the highlight of her campaign so far, her straw poll victory in mid-August. This visit was focused on small-scale appearances rather than large rallies, on the advice of her Iowa campaign leaders to water the grass roots. As several generations of the Sukup family listened to her remarks to employees, she called for other homegrown business success stories. 
"Let's let that be our future: grow, grow, grow, just like the Iowa corn that's out in the field,'' she said. "Grow, grow, grow.''

        
Perry Jabs Romney in Iowa
        
Palin Spotted - and Swarmed - at Iowa State Fair
        
Romney to Hecklers: 'Corporations Are People'
        
Five Things to Watch for in Iowa Debate
        
Perry to Visit Iowa for Sunday Speech

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (74%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (71%) 2012 presidential campaign; Iowa; Republicans; Bachmann, Michele M; Buffett, Warren E; Presidential Election of 2012; Elections; In Iowa

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (94%); MICHELE BACHMANN (94%); BARACK OBAMA (90%) Bachmann, Michele M; Buffett, Warren E

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



825 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: Rollins Has More Tough Words for Bachmann

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: The political strategist questions the viability of her campaign after the Iowa caucuses.

 BODY:
Visit msnbc.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy
Ed Rollins is at it again. 
The former campaign manager for Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota has questioned his former candidate's ability to campaign beyond Iowa, the first state in the nation to hold a nominating contest.
In an interview on MSNBC, Ed Rollins told Andrea Mitchell that Mrs. Bachmann does not have the money or resources to compete with her better-financed rivals like Mitt Romney and Rick Perry.
"Right now, she's competing hard in Iowa," Mr. Rollins said. But he added that "she doesn't have the ability or resources to go beyond that, Iowa, at this point in time. Where Perry and Romney can go into South Carolina, Arizona and other places."
The criticism of Mrs. Bachmann is hardly the first for Mr. Rollins since he abruptly departed her campaign earlier this month, citing his own health issues. Last week, Mr. Rollins criticized Mrs. Bachmann for repeating a woman's claim that her daughter became "retarded" after receiving an HPV vaccine. 
Aides to Mrs. Bachmann's campaign have said there was no ill will when Mr. Rollins left. And they say he remains an "important" strategic adviser for the presidential campaign.
But in citing Mrs. Bachmann's resource problem, Mr. Rollins was acting more like a television analyst than a campaign spinmeister. By doing so, he put his finger on what may be Mrs. Bachmann's biggest roadblock to actually winning the Republican nomination and the White House.
Her campaign has always said winning Iowa early next year would be critical. But if Mrs. Bachmann is unable to build a national organization in other states, she could end up like Mike Huckabee, whose 2008 campaign quickly ran out of steam after he won the Iowa caucuses that year.
Mr. Huckabee was able to raise money at a healthy clip after his victory, but without having built a national campaign infrastructure in other states, he was quickly overwhelmed by his more well-financed rivals. Mr. Rollins -- a veteran in presidential politics -- seems to be saying the same thing is true for his former client.
The real question may be: why is he saying it now? Advisers over at the Bachmann campaign can't be too happy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (54%) Huckabee, Mike; Mitchell, Andrea; Perry, Rick; Rollins, Ed; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; MSNBC; Iowa; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: MSNBC

PERSON: MICHELE BACHMANN (92%); RICK PERRY (90%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%) Huckabee, Mike; Mitchell, Andrea; Perry, Rick; Rollins, Ed; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



826 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: UBS Scandal Is a Reminder of Why Dodd-Frank Came to Be

BYLINE: By ADRIENNE CARTER and BEN PROTESS; Azam Ahmed and Julia Werdigier contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Although the UBS trading scandal happened at the London office of a Swiss financial company, big American banks will feel regulatory heat.
When UBS revealed on Thursday that a rogue trader had lost a quantity of money so large that it potentially wiped out profits for the entire quarter, the case cast a glaring spotlight on banks' risk-taking activities and evoked painful memories of the financial crisis. Such blowups had helped bring the system to the brink, forcing governments to bail out banks and prompting a global economic slowdown.
The timing is bad for banks. 
In the coming weeks, policy makers are expected to propose new regulations intended to limit federally insured banks from making bets with their own money, according to a government official with knowledge of the process. The rules - part of the Dodd-Frank Act, the regulatory overhaul enacted in the wake of the crisis - take aim at a practice called proprietary trading, in which companies speculate for their own gains rather than for their customers'.
While the industry has been lobbying aggressively to temper those regulations, the rogue trading case could give proponents of the so-called Volcker Rule, which would prohibit proprietary trading, more ammunition. UBS, which stands to lose $2.3 billion on the unauthorized trades, said in its initial four-sentence announcement on the incident that ''no client positions were affected.'' The implication was that the trader was using company money to place his bets.
''As recent events have shown, banks' trading operations have become too poorly policed,'' said Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, who introduced the ban on proprietary trading in Dodd-Frank along with Senator Jeff Merkley, Democrat of Oregon. The rules ''will help prevent banks from making risky bets for their own accounts that could threaten the firm or our economy.''
As fodder for advocates of tough regulation, the UBS case is a somewhat ambiguous example. The London police have charged the trader at the center of the scandal, Kweku M. Adoboli, with fraud and false accounting.
If the accusations prove to be true, the Volcker Rule - named after Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman - would not necessarily prevent the same situation from happening at an American bank. The regulations are intended to curtail speculative bets by a company, rather than stop the criminal acts of a single person.
''Compliance programs aren't necessarily crime-detecting initiatives,'' said Jaret Seiberg, a policy analyst at MF Global.
But the incident does raise questions about risky behavior at banks - and whether the companies have the appropriate systems and controls in place to monitor those activities. While the charges against Mr. Adoboli detail actions dating back to 2008, UBS did not discover any problems until recently.
The UBS scandal also brings into focus the fuzzy nature of proprietary trading.
Like many big Wall Street banks, UBS has shifted away from stand-alone desks that make bets with the bank's money. Under the Volcker Rule, those ''prop desks'' would be banned at American companies and foreign companies that operate in the United States. (UBS would not be subject to the same rules in its London office, where the incident took place.)
But proprietary style trading still exists in groups that cater to corporations, hedge funds and other big institutions. Such units have become big profit centers for Wall Street banks like Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley.
Mr. Adoboli worked in one of those areas at UBS. As part of the Delta One desk, he helped develop trades for clients, focusing on exchange-traded funds. But he also took speculative bets on various benchmarks, including the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, according to UBS. Those positions violated the firm's risk limits, which he ''concealed'' by creating ''fictitious trades,'' the bank said.
A spokeswoman for Kingsley Napley, the law firm representing Mr. Adoboli, declined to comment. UBS declined to comment beyond its releases.
The Delta One desks operate in a gray area, where the line is sometimes blurred between proprietary trading and client activities like market making. A bank, for example, can buy securities from one customer with the intent of selling them to another client. But if the bank holds the assets too long or lets the stake grow too large, it may look more like a proprietary trade.
''You're never going to be able to craft a rule that permits legitimate market-making activities that our economy desperately needs while at the same time prohibiting proprietary positions,'' said Mr. Seiberg of MF Global. ''That's because one man's market making is another man's prop trading.''
Regulators are looking to make the boundaries clearer. After working on a draft of the Volcker Rule for weeks, they now agree on some of the thorniest provisions, including the definition of market making, according to a person with knowledge of the discussions.
But they are still debating how to enforce the regulation. While some are pushing for Wall Street to police itself in proprietary trading activity, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and other policy makers want a tougher crackdown. The agencies could leave open the possibility of a compromise plan for banks to detail their positions to data warehouses, where regulators could keep an eye on the trading. They have also discussed whether to hold executives liable should a bank skirt the rules.
Under the proposal, the definition of market making, at least for now, largely tracks the metric laid out in an earlier report by the Financial Stability Oversight Council, according to the person close to the discussions. For example, positions held for less than 60 days would draw scrutiny, as regulators ensure that the trades are either bona fide hedges or market-making deals.
It is a tough rule to get just right. Make the regulation too broad and it could prove ineffective at keeping banks from taking on too much risk. Make it too specific, and it could crimp legitimate businesses that bolster the economy.
''The challenge for regulators is to thread that needle,'' said Donald N. Lamson, a lawyer at Shearman & Sterling and a former Treasury Department official who helped write the Volcker Rule. ''You have to draw a line somewhere.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kweku M. Adoboli is accused of fraud and false accounting for losing $2.3 billion in unauthorized trades while working at UBS in London. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT DUNHAM/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCANDALS (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ACCOUNTING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (91%); MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (51%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (91%); UBS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%)

PERSON: JEFF MERKLEY (54%); CARL LEVIN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



827 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: Airbus Raises Its Forecast For Jet Sales

BYLINE: By NICOLA CLARK

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
PARIS -- The European plane maker Airbus raised its long-range forecast for commercial aircraft demand Monday, citing expectations of increasing wealth in fast-growing Asia and the continued expansion of low-cost airlines in the United States and Europe.
Airbus predicted that airlines would buy 27,800 new jets by 2030. That estimate was up 7 percent from a forecast of 26,000 planes, which was made last December before orders this year for new Airbus jets from Asian carriers. The company said the new orders would be worth $3.5 trillion, up 9.4 percent from the $3.2 trillion forecast nine months ago. Its forecast is for aircraft that seat 100 or more passengers. 
Airbus said it expected passenger traffic globally to grow at an annual rate of 4.8 percent over the next two decades, just below the approximately 5 percent average rate of the last 30 years.
According to the Airbus forecast, more than a third of the demand for new planes will come from the Asia-Pacific region, particularly from India and China. Domestic air passenger traffic in India and China is expected to grow at an average annual pace of 9.8 percent and 7.2 percent, respectively, over the next 20 years.
This year Airbus received major orders from Asia for its single-aisle jets, including a $18 billion deal for 200 planes from AirAsia, the Malaysian low-cost airline. It had two large deals with Indian carriers: a $16.6 billion sale of 150 planes to GoAir and a 180-plane order from IndiGo, worth $16 billion. By 2030, Airbus predicted, travel within Europe and North America would each represent about one-fifth of global passenger traffic and new aircraft demand, down from just under one-third each today.
Airbus forecast that domestic travel within the United States would represent the biggest region in terms of overall traffic flows, as measured by the revenue that airlines earn per available seat for each mile flown, at 11.1 percent of the total. Europe would represent 7.5 percent of revenue per seat mile.
John Leahy, the chief salesman at Airbus, acknowledged that the current economic climate was likely to lead to below-average growth in demand for air travel at least through 2012. But he emphasized that the long-term growth trends in air travel had remained consistent for at least three decades.
''While we experienced a kind of 'lost decade' in the period since Sept. 11 in terms of economic growth, air traffic over that same period is still up by 45 percent,'' Mr. Leahy said. ''Over the next couple of years, we do expect to see another slow growth period, but we don't foresee a double-dip recession,'' he added.
The majority of new jet sales were expected to be in the single-aisle category of planes like the Boeing 737 and the Airbus A320, which normally seat about 150 passengers. Airbus predicted that nearly 70 percent of sales over the next 20 years -- 19,200 aircraft worth $1.4 trillion by 2030 -- would be of this type.
Online Correction: September 19, 2011, Monday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article provided incorrect figures for forecast annual domestic air traffic growth in the United States and Europe for the period 2011-2030. Airbus predicted average growth of 2.4 percent per year over the period, not 11.1 percent, while intra-European traffic was predicted to increase by an average 3.2 percent, not 7.5 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT MFG (91%); AIRLINES (91%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TRENDS (78%); RECESSION (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); NEW ORDERS (76%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%)

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (96%); AIRASIA X SDN BHD (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (96%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); ASIA (93%); INDIA (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); MALAYSIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



828 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: 12 Held in Sale of Pest Poisons, One 60 Times as Potent as the Legal Limit

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM; Noah Rosenberg contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The investigation began with a vial of blue-green liquid. Roughly two inches tall, it came in a yellow and blue box covered with Chinese characters and, in English, the words ''The cat be unemployed.''
It was rat poison, illegal and highly toxic. 
The pesticide, which was apparently smuggled into the United States from China, contained one deadly ingredient in a concentration almost 61 times as great as what federal regulations allow, according to court papers.
The chemical, brodifacoum, is so dangerous, officials said, that its use is illegal in urban areas unless it is applied by licensed professionals wearing protective gear and using special equipment. Federal regulators have recently moved to further restrict its use, in part because its ingestion could kill a small child.
Several of the vials were among about 6,000 packages of rat and cockroach poison seized from shops and street vendors in and around Chinatown during a five-month undercover investigation into the sale of illegal pesticides, state and local officials announced at a news conference Monday.
The vials, they said, first came to the attention of the authorities because a woman who had bought one in the East Broadway Mall in Chinatown last year later mistook the pesticide for medicine, consumed it and became seriously ill, losing two-thirds of her blood volume, according to the court papers. Brodifacoum is an anticoagulant that kills rodents by causing them to bleed to death internally. Another chemical in one of the pesticides, sodium fluoroacetate, is a metabolic poison used to kill coyotes.
The inquiry, which involved a half-dozen agencies that enforce laws regarding pesticides, culminated last week when investigators executed 14 search warrants, mostly in Chinatown, arrested 12 people on federal and state criminal charges -- all of them misdemeanors -- and conducted nearly four dozen civil inspections, officials said.
The agencies involved in the investigation, including the offices of the district attorney and the United States attorney in Manhattan, the Environmental Protection Agency and the State Department of Environmental Conservation, said their investigation highlighted the widespread sale of toxic pesticides in densely populated neighborhoods where vermin abound.
''All across the city we find products like these,'' Judith Enck, the E.P.A.'s regional administrator, said at the news conference, referring to a display of colorful unregulated pesticides that she said could easily be confused for children's toys or candy. ''People and businesses that make and sell these products are playing Russian roulette with people's health.''
Many of the products, she said in an interview, are carcinogenic or poisonous to nerve cells and ''have the potential to do long-term damage.''
The E.P.A., Ms. Enck added, ''is particularly concerned about children coming into contact with these products, because children are particularly vulnerable to the toxic impact -- their bodies are still developing.''
During the last five months, undercover investigators bought illegal pesticides in shops on Madison, Mott, South Eldridge and Pike Streets in Chinatown, the officials said.
Ten of those arrested last week were charged in state court and will be prosecuted by the Manhattan district attorney's office; two others -- one identified in court papers as a wholesaler of the illegal pesticides, the other a grocery store owner who was charged with selling thousands of packets of the products to undercover investigators -- will be prosecuted in federal court by the office of the United States attorney in Manhattan.
The Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., whose investigators seized the majority of the illegal pesticides, suggested that it would be worth considering legislation to allow prosecutors to seek harsher penalties for such crimes, based on the concentrations and quantities sold.
''The rodenticides and roach killers that were seized as part of this investigation,'' Mr. Vance said, ''are dangerous, unregulated products that contain chemicals so toxic they exceed government regulation scores at times.''
And, he added, they ''are particularly dangerous to kids because they look and smell like cookies or other objects that would attract the human touch.''
Preet Bharara, the United States attorney in Manhattan, said in a statement that ''these defendants were literally peddling poison to an unwitting public, putting the health and safety of their customers and their families in jeopardy.''
Children are especially vulnerable because many pesticides are placed on floors and the children sometimes place bait pellets in their mouths, according to Adrian J. Enache, a toxicologist who leads the E.P.A.'s pesticides program in New York.
The American Association of Poison Control Centers receives 12,000 to 15,000 reports each year of children younger than 6 being exposed to these kinds of pesticides. But Ms. Enck and other officials said it was hard to gauge the scope of the problem and its impact on children because many cases of poisoning go unreported. Ms. Enck said that when children exhibit symptoms that include eye and skin irritations and nausea, parents are often unaware that the pesticides are at fault.
The inquiry is continuing, with investigators focusing on identifying and tracking down the sources of the unregistered pesticides, according to David G. McLeod Jr., the assistant special agent in charge of the E.P.A.'s criminal investigation division in New York.
The wholesaler, Jai Ping Chen, 43, was charged with five counts of conspiracy and four counts of selling unregistered pesticides. The grocery store owner, Cheng Yan Huang, 56, was charged with nine counts of similar crimes. If convicted, both face a year in prison for each count.
Mr. Chen's lawyer, Adam D. Perlmutter, declined to comment; Martin S. Cohen, a lawyer who represents Mr. Huang, did not respond to telephone and e-mail messages.
The 10 men and women charged in state court face multiple misdemeanor charges, in some cases hundreds of counts, and while the jail time is negligible, many violations carry a maximum fine of $5,000 per count.
Ms. Enck said she believed people bought the poison because they thought it was ''the strongest and most potent product.''
She added: ''Unfortunately, these are readily available and there is an assumption that if they're sold in stores, they're legal. And another reason is they are relatively cheap.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A package of rat poison that was for sale in Chinatown had a tiny logo that said ''The cat be unemployed.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY STATE DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION)(A21)
Agents with the Environmental Protection Agency pulled pesticides from the shelves at a market in Chinatown on Friday.
 The agents handed out a list of items they were searching for. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PESTICIDES (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); RODENTS (89%); SEARCH WARRANTS (78%); MISDEMEANORS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); MAMMALS (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); BIOCHEMISTRY (76%); INSPECTIONS (76%); LAWYERS (76%); CITY LIFE (75%); RETAILERS (73%); SMUGGLING (72%); CARCINOGENS (72%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); TOYS & GAMES (70%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (68%); ARRESTS (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (61%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



829 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Shooting Exposes Instability In Burundi

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN; Josh Kron contributed reporting from Kampala, Uganda.

 BODY:
NAIROBI, Kenya -- A group of gunmen clad in army fatigues and armed with military-grade weapons burst into a crowded bar in Burundi on Sunday night and opened fire, Burundian officials said, killing more than 30 people and laying bare how combustible the country is a year after a disputed election. 
Burundian officials immediately accused an armed opposition political party that had recently fled into the thick forests of neighboring Democratic Republic of Congo, and many Burundians fear that their country could be sliding back toward war.
In the 1990s, more than 200,000 people were killed in this tiny central African nation in ethnically driven violence that soon became a dangerous free-for-all involving warring militias, rival politicians, criminal gangs and child soldiers.
According to witnesses, around 9 p.m. on Sunday, 10 gunmen descended on the Chez Les Amis bar in Gatumba, a small town near the Congo border. An African diplomat in Nairobi said that the bar was owned by a supporter of the Burundian government and that it was a well-known watering hole for fans of the governing party.
The gunmen ordered everybody in the bar to lie on the floor, and then they opened fire.
''Kill them all, kill them all, make sure there's no survivors,'' one of the gunmen said, according to an Associated Press reporter who spoke to witnesses.
Government officials said 36 people were killed and 15 wounded. After the attack, witnesses said, the gunmen slipped across the Congo border, just a few miles away.
In recent months, Burundi has been haunted by a rash of mysterious killings, with bodies showing up in rivers, gagged and bound. Diplomats and human rights groups say the Burundian government has embarked on a campaign to methodically eliminate opposition supporters.
''The government has been slaughtering them like rats,'' said the African diplomat, who was not authorized to speak publicly.
The attack on Sunday, he said simply, ''was payback.''
In 2008, the last of Burundi's heavily armed rebel groups came in from the cold and agreed to form a political party. A fragile truce held until last year, when several opposition leaders claimed that the government rigged local elections, prompting the opposition leaders to abruptly withdraw from the presidential election. Agathon Rwasa, a rebel leader who briefly flirted with civilian life, suddenly disappeared, and many analysts said he had returned to the bush, in Congo, to reorganize his militia.
Rene Lemarchand, an emeritus professor of political science at the University of Florida who has written extensively about Burundi, said he believed that Mr. Rwasa's men were most likely behind Sunday's killings.
But, Mr. Lemarchand added, ''there is lot of flotsam and jetsam floating around.''
''Unemployment among the young is skyrocketing,'' he said. ''Many demobilized soldiers have become bandits, which is to say that Rwasa doesn't have to go out of his way to recruit supporters. Many are driven into ranks by poverty and despair.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMIES (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); EYEWITNESSES (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CHILD SOLDIERS (73%); DRINKING PLACES (73%); ELECTION FRAUD (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); DEATHS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAIROBI, KENYA (88%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) BURUNDI (95%); KENYA (94%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



830 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Shares Retreat as Doubts Grow About Greece

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER and MATTHEW SALTMARSH; Niki Kitsantonis contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In a sign of increasing pessimism over the prospects for a resolution to the Greek debt crisis, investors sold some of their riskier assets in the United States and Europe on Monday.
Financial markets were focused in part on a conference call between Greek officials and the so-called troika of foreign creditors -- the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission and the European Central Bank -- as well as further meetings among senior officials in Athens struggling to close a budget gap.
But the Greek finance ministry tried to deflate expectations of a speedy result. The conversation lasted around two hours on Monday evening before it was adjourned until Tuesday morning. 
In Europe, market indexes fell about 3 percent, the euro declined and the price of safe assets like German bonds rose as investors continued to fret about the possibility of a Greek default. In the United States, stock indexes traded most of the day about 2 percent lower and bond prices rose.
Late Monday, Standard & Poor's announced it was cutting the credit rating of Italy's sovereign debt, to A from A+, with a negative outlook. S.& P. cut its forecast for Italy's economic growth, a slowdown that would make the country's fiscal targets difficult to hit, the agency said.
On Wall Street earlier Monday, stocks firmed slightly at the close, with the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index down nearly 1 percent, or 11.92 points, to 1,204.09. The Dow Jones industrial average was down 0.9 percent to 11,401.01, and the Nasdaq briefly reached into positive territory late in the day before closing 0.4 percent lower at 2,612.83.
Financial stocks were hard hit. Bank of America was down more than 3 percent at $6.99. Wells Fargo declined 2.5 percent to $24.33, and Citigroup fell 4.4 percent to $27.71. JPMorgan Chase was 2.8 percent lower at $32.49.
The 10-year Treasury bond rose 29/32 to 101 17/32, sending its yield down to 1.96 percent from 2.06 percent on Friday.
The Federal Reserve's policy-making committee meets on Tuesday and Wednesday, and investors say they believe the Fed may announce new measures to promote economic growth.
Anthony Valeri, a fixed-income investment strategist for LPL Financial, said he believed that investors had already priced in the expected action, making Monday's movements in bonds ''exclusively risk aversion'' caused by the lack of progress in Europe.
Some analysts now fear that given the legal complications in some euro zone countries, and the apparent reluctance of Greece to push ahead on the kind of commitments on spending, wages and privatizations being sought by its partners, Greece might soon default, starting a domino effect on other countries like Portugal, Italy or Spain.
Those fears were compounded after the party of Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany lost ground in a regional election in Berlin on Sunday, amid voter anger over her handling of the debt crisis.
''The background noise of the Greek debt crisis resembles a continuous alarm tone,'' Rainer Guntermann and Peggy Jager, analysts at Commerzbank, said in a research note. ''With few tangible results coming from the finance ministers' meeting over the weekend and still little official indication that the Greek debt swap may go through, speculation remains high and bonds remain in demand.''
The economic outlook was also downbeat after the secretary-general of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, Abdalla Salem el-Badri, said Monday that global demand for oil was rising less than expected, Bloomberg News reported. Oil prices in New York fell more than 2.4 percent to $85.81.
''We have risk aversion, profit taking and a stronger dollar on the back of the ongoing concerns both in Europe and domestically,'' said Peter Cardillo, chief market economist for Rockwell Global Capital.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); BONDS (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EURO (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); SOVEREIGN RISK (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); MONETARY UNIONS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); EURO ZONE (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (72%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (72%); LPL FINANCIAL CORP (62%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (62%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (79%) EUROPE (95%); GREECE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); ITALY (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%); PORTUGAL (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



831 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 318 words

HEADLINE: Lennar Raises Its Forecast As New-Home Orders Rise

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The home builder Lennar forecast a strong fourth quarter on Monday, suggesting the housing market was finally showing signs of coming out of a long slump.
The home builder said it was helped by a 3 percent rise in the average sales price of home deliveries. It also said new orders jumped 11 percent. 
Orders are a leading indicator for builders, who do not book revenue until they close on a house.
''We have seen demand for home purchases slowly return to the marketplace, driven by low home prices and all-time low interest rates,'' said Stuart Miller, the chief executive of Lennar.
Last month, UBS said the slump in the new-home market had reached its nadir and there were unlikely to be further declines in sales and pricing over the second half of the year.
Home prices in the United States edged up for the fourth month in a row in July, while the yearly rate of decline moderated.
The rise in rental rates in many markets was also driving people to consider home ownership, the company said on a conference call with analysts.
This was the sixth consecutive quarterly profit for Lennar, which competes with KB Home and Toll Brothers.
In August, Toll Brothers reported tepid quarterly order growth and a rise in cancellations and warned that stock market volatility and economic uncertainty continued to weigh on home buyer confidence.
The quarterly net income attributable for Lennar fell to $20.7 million, or 11 cents a share, compared with $30 million, or 16 cents a share in the same period a year ago. Revenue fell about half of a percent to $820.2 million, from $825 million a year ago.
Lennar said revenue at its distressed-land operation, Rialto Investments, rose to $42 million, compared with $38 million last year. The company is one of the few to start such an operation, which buys distressed loans and securities portfolios.
Shares of the company, based in Miami, were up nearly 5 percent at $14.43.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); NEW ORDERS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTEREST RATES (70%); EXECUTIVES (55%); CONFERENCE CALLS (52%)

COMPANY: LENNAR CORP (92%); KB HOME CORP (55%)

TICKER: LEN (NYSE) (92%); KBH (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (92%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (92%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (55%)

PERSON: STUART A MILLER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



832 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: MacArthur Foundation Selects 22 'Geniuses'

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE

 BODY:
An economist whose investigations into student achievement examined the impact of rewards for good grades; a Pulitzer Prize winner who was the country's 16th poet laureate; and a clinical psychologist seeking to pinpoint who is at risk for suicide were among the 22 recipients of the $500,000 ''genius awards,'' to be announced on Tuesday by the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation.
This year, as in years past, the 12 men and 10 women selected are a mix of the well known and the little known, and they represent a broad swath of the arts and sciences. The MacArthur award, which has been bestowed on 850 people since the program began in 1981, comes in five annual payments of $100,000, with no strings attached. 
Kay Ryan, 65, a former poet laureate of the United States who won the Pulitzer Prize for poetry this year, said the money provided a certain ''mental ease,'' as she continues to write and to advocate for community colleges, where she has taught remedial English skills for decades.
''I was very, very surprised,'' said Ms. Ryan, who lives in Fairfax, Calif. ''I had certainly thought I was over the hill. Obviously these people think I've got five more good years in me.''
The winners range in age from 29 to 67. Shwetak Patel, a computer scientist at the University of Washington, Seattle, and Alisa Weilerstein, a cellist in New York City, are both 29. Ubaldo Vitali, 67, is a conservator, scholar and silversmith in Maplewood, N.J.
Besides Ms. Ryan and Ms. Weilerstein, other winners in the arts this year include A. E. Stallings, 43, a poet and translator from Athens; Francisco Nunez, 46, a conductor, composer, pianist and founder of the Young People's Chorus of New York City; Dafnis Prieto, 37, a jazz percussionist and composer in New York City; Peter Hessler, 42, a journalist cited for his writing about reform-era China; and Jad Abumrad, 38, the co-host and producer of ''Radiolab,'' a program on WNYC in New York that explores questions of science and philosophy, like the nature of altruism.
''This show is the central creative mission of my life right now, and the money might give me the space to bring new things into it,'' Mr. Abumrad said.
Robert Gallucci, the president of the MacArthur Foundation, said many factors are considered when choosing fellows. The secretive selection process relies on hundreds of anonymous nominators to help identify potential honorees.
''Fellows are selected for their creativity, originality and potential to make important contributions in the future,'' Mr. Gallucci said.
Some have also raised provocative questions in their fields. Roland Fryer, 34, an economics professor at Harvard, has made headlines for his studies of what factors influence grades and test scores of children and the role of race and economics. In one analysis he found that peer group loyalty sometimes competes with academic performance, especially in racially mixed settings.
Kevin Guskiewicz, 45, a researcher, athletic trainer and professor in the department of exercise and sport science at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, said he intended to put a major portion of his fellowship money into his work. That work involves diagnosing and treating sports-related concussions, which led to his development of the balance error scoring system.
Based on the idea that balance and posture can help to evaluate concussions objectively, the system uses a symptom checklist as well as an inexpensive device made of foam and a stopwatch.
Acknowledging that his work has the potential to save lives, Mr. Guskiewicz said he was still ''floored, surprised and honored, all at the same time,'' by the MacArthur grant.
Matthew Nock, 38, a clinical psychologist at Harvard, also conducts research that can be life-saving: he tries to determine who is at risk for suicide and self-injury, using laboratory experiments and other self-assessments. ''Suicide, in many cases, just seems to come out of the blue,'' Mr. Nock said of the impetus for his work.
Two other MacArthur fellows working on problems affecting particular populations are Elodie Ghedin, 44, a biomedical researcher at the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, who studies pathogens that cause diseases, like river blindness, that affect millions in poor countries, and Marie-Therese Connolly, 54, an advocate, based in Washington, for the rights of older Americans.
''I couldn't think of another issue in this country that has such an impact on so many people,'' Ms. Connolly said of her work tackling elder abuse and mistreatment by breaking down barriers among social services, health care, legal and financial systems. Her MacArthur award, she said, will help bring attention to the issue.
This year three fellows came from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. They are Tiya Miles, 41, a public historian and history professor who has researched the relationships between African and Cherokee people in colonial America; Melanie Sanford, 36, a professor of chemistry whose research on organometallic synthesis has implications for pharmaceuticals and other products; and Yukiko Yamashita, 39, a developmental biologist who studies the mechanisms that regulate stem cell division.
Also honored this year are Jeanne Gang, 47, an architect in Chicago acclaimed for her Aqua building, a mixed-use skyscraper; Markus Greiner, 38, an experimental physicist at Harvard whose research focuses on the principles of condensed-matter physics; Sarah Otto, 43, a theoretical biologist at the University of British Columbia, Vancouver, whose work includes assessing the benefits of sexual and asexual reproduction; William Seeley, 39, a professor and researcher at the University of California, San Francisco, whose work examines neurodegenerative disease; and Jacob Soll, 42, a historian at Rutgers University in Camden, N.J., whose studies of early modern Europe are shaping the understanding of the origins of the modern state.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PSYCHOLOGY (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); POETRY (90%); WRITERS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (87%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (75%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); SUICIDE (72%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (70%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (64%); SILVERWARE & HOLLOWARE MFG (64%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHN D & CATHERINE T MACARTHUR FOUNDATION (91%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



833 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; N.F.L. FAST FORWARD; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1488 words

HEADLINE: Newton Exceeds Even Highest Of Expectations

BYLINE: By JUDY BATTISTA

 BODY:
Just a few weeks ago, Carolina Panthers Coach Ron Rivera was despairing over all the preparation time his team -- young and rebuilding -- missed because of the lockout. The rookie camp, the minicamps, the hours of practices, the hundreds of repetitions.
''All those young guys could have gotten great development,'' Rivera said. ''Especially in our situation, with a rookie quarterback.''
What would Cam Newton have done with a normal off-season? We won't know until next year, but for now, Newton, the rookie quarterback from Auburn who was supposed to need time to transition from the spread offense he ran in college to a more N.F.L.-friendly pocket game, has stunned the league with a record-setting first two weeks.
On Sunday, Newton passed for a single-game rookie record of 432 yards against Green Bay, a blitz-heavy team. That was 10 more yards than he passed for last week in his pro debut, and he is the first N.F.L. player to begin his career with consecutive 400-yard passing games. Yes, there were four sacks and three interceptions Sunday, and two losses over all. But Newton has surpassed any reasonable expectations. 
Gil Brandt, the former Dallas Cowboys executive who analyzes college players and the draft for NFL.com, started monitoring Newton intensively last fall and was impressed by his talent and leadership skills. But even Brandt is shocked that Newton has thrown for so many yards so fast.
''Am I surprised he threw for 400 yards both games? Yes,'' Brandt said. ''Am I surprised he's doing well? No. I had no question in my mind he's going to do well.''
The Panthers are a rebuilding team with few receiving threats, but they did acquire tight ends Jeremy Shockey and Greg Olsen in the off-season to provide Newton with reliable targets. Still, the questions about Newton revolved around whether he, like Tim Tebow in Denver, would struggle to adapt to a pro-style game. The two, though, are significantly different. Newton is the far superior athletic talent, and he is not laden with an unorthodox throwing motion, as Tebow is. Newton throws a better pass that reaches its intended target more quickly than Tebow does, and Newton recognizes defenses more readily. The result: while Tebow took snaps as a backup wide receiver to get playing time for the Broncos last week, Newton is single-handedly keeping the Panthers competitive.
''The ball explodes off his hands, and he can change speeds,'' the ESPN analyst and former quarterback Trent Dilfer said of Newton. ''Tebow can't do that. It's night and day between the two players.''
During the summer, Rivera lauded Newton's work habits. ''You meet him and all the different things you can do with him -- the book time, the film time, the walk-through time, the practice and postpractice -- the kid has been terrific and very open to teaching,'' he said. While the N.F.L. was at a standstill during the lockout, Newton trained at the IMG Academy with the former N.F.L. quarterback Chris Weinke. Weinke is a former Carolina quarterback, too, and his relationship with the franchise undoubtedly allowed him to gain insight into the type of offense the Panthers planned to run this year.
Newton was able to get the Carolina playbook during the brief window when the lockout ended around the time of the draft. That allowed him to get a head start with Weinke. Dilfer is familiar with it, too, because he knows Norv Turner's playbook and Turner schooled Carolina's offensive coordinator, Rob Chudzinski. Dilfer said it was a well-designed playbook that allowed a quarterback, even a new one, to develop pictures in his head of the plays and to be able to call the plays in a short period of time. So even though there were no off-season workouts, when Newton finally got to training camp, he was able to call the plays right away.
As for Newton's flaws, Dilfer said Newton would most likely always miss high, because in his initial training as a thrower in college he tilted his body at angles to throw, so that his left shoulder still tilts upward, and then he has to get everything level to get the ball in a straight plane. Dilfer said his technique had improved drastically, but that would most likely always be something he had to correct.
As for developing Newton, Dilfer said the Panthers were taking the correct approach, even as they struggle to win games in a rebuilding year.
''The Panthers are doing the smart thing -- don't put reins on him and make him a game manager; develop him as a passer,'' he said. ''If I were coaching Cam Newton, I would major in red-zone and third-down offense. Every single day. Because then he'll be pressed to handle protection better and to handle smaller windows. The speed of the game, the learning curve will be sped up, because he'll have to face it in a more contested environment. Now you go into Year 2 or 3 and you've started your graduate school.''
Like most players just months removed from the college game, Newton occasionally underestimates the speed of cornerbacks closing on his passes. But Newton is already in good company: the record for rookie passing in the first two N.F.L. games, shattered by Newton on Sunday, was first set by Otto Graham in 1950, Brandt said.
More Trouble for the Chiefs
It has been just two weeks, but no coach is on a hotter seat than the Chiefs' Todd Haley, whose team has been outscored, 89-10, in two losses to teams that had losing records last season. There seems little hope for a rebound, either.
The Chiefs, who won the American Football Conference West last year while playing against a relatively easy schedule (they had the National Football Conference West), this season face a relatively difficult one (with the N.F.C. North). And on Sunday they lost running back Jamaal Charles to a knee injury. Charles was one of the few remaining bright spots on a roster that has lost tight end Tony Moeaki and safety Eric Berry to injured reserve.
Quarterback Matt Cassel, who flourished early last year under the coordinator Charlie Weis, has thrown four interceptions (he had just seven last season) and is averaging 4 yards per attempt under the current coordinator, Bill Muir, a respected offensive line coach who has never called plays before. It's hard not to wonder if Weis, who departed suddenly late last season for the University of Florida, would be doing better.
That is just one bit of the second-guessing that inevitably swirls around a team that has fallen apart so suddenly, although perhaps the first indication of trouble came at the end of last season, after Weis had announced his departure and the Chiefs collapsed, 30-7, in a home playoff loss.
There were other indications. Was it wise not to add more depth to the roster during free agency? And did Haley's unusual preseason schedule -- the team worked heavily on conditioning early in training camp rather than installing the offense, and the starters played extensively in the final preseason game, which starters traditionally skip -- backfire?
There will be plenty of time to hash over those things, particularly if the Chiefs embark on another coaching search.
Shuffling Off in Buffalo
Wonder how season-ticket sales will be this week in Buffalo?
Last week, the team confirmed that sales had plummeted to a decade low of little more than 37,000. Certainly, the withering Rust Belt economy had something to do with that. But the Bills have not made the playoffs since 1999 and have played dispiriting, flat-line football for most of that time. This season, though, out of nowhere, the Bills are playing blink-and-you'll-miss-it football, first routing the Chiefs, 41-7, then scoring 35 points in the second half, including a jaw-dropping fourth-down touchdown pass with 14 seconds remaining, to beat the Raiders, 38-35, with the former Harvard quarterback Ryan Fitzpatrick playing the unlikely role of Jim Kelly redux.
Each victory, each season, is freighted with meaning in Buffalo. The Bills play one home game each year in Toronto and the fear of the local fan base is that eventually the team may permanently relocate over the border to that wealthier, higher-population neighbor. Declining ticket sales would not help the myriad local groups who want the Bills to stay in Orchard Park. But a winning team would, and the owner Ralph Wilson told The Buffalo News that he was ready to extend the team's lease agreement with Erie County, which owns the stadium that bears Wilson's name, if some improvements could be made.
''We're not looking to have a palace, just a football stadium,'' Wilson said, taking a jab at the new high-priced and highly styled stadiums like those in Dallas and at the Meadowlands. The lease extension may ease some fans' fears that the Bills could be on the move, and allow them more time to revel in Buffalo's football renaissance. They should enjoy it while it lasts. If the Bills' defense gave up 35 points to the Raiders, what might Tom Brady do when the Patriots visit next weekend?

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Panthers' Cam Newton has passed for 422 and 432 yards in his first two starts despite the reduced preparation resulting from the lockout. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ASSOICATED PRESS (5) AND GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (78%)

ORGANIZATION: CAROLINA PANTHERS (91%); DALLAS COWBOYS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (52%) COLORADO, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



834 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: Led by Demand in China, Energy Use Is Projected to Rise 53% by 2035

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Global energy demand will increase 53 percent from 2008 through 2035, with China and India accounting for half of the growth, the United States Department of Energy said on Monday. 
China and India will consume 31 percent of the world's energy by 2035, up from 21 percent in 2008, the department's International Energy Outlook projected. In 2035, Chinese energy demand will exceed that of the United States by 68 percent, it said.
''Economic growth continues to look good in emerging nations,'' Howard K. Gruenspecht, acting administrator of the Energy Information Administration, said on Monday at a briefing in Washington.
Renewable sources will be the fastest-increasing energy category in the next 25 years, said the report, which was prepared by the information agency. Renewable energy demand will climb 2.8 percent a year over the period and will make up 15 percent of the total in 2035, up from 10 percent in 2008.
Crude oil prices will rise to $125 a barrel in 2035 in 2009 dollars, the agency estimated. In May 2010, when it last released an energy outlook, the department projected that oil would climb to $133 a barrel by 2035. Demand for petroleum and other liquid fuels will increase by 26.9 million barrels a day between 2008 and 2035, the new outlook said.
Global consumption of natural gas is forecast to rise 52 percent, to 169 trillion cubic feet, from 2008 to 2035. The growth in natural-gas demand will outpace demand growth for other fossil fuels.
Total energy demand will increase an average 1.6 percent from 2008 to 2035. Strong economic growth in developing countries will drive the gain, the outlook shows.
Energy-related emissions of carbon dioxide will rise 43 percent, to 43.2 billion metric tons, from 2008 to 2035, the report said. Much of the increase will occur in developing countries, it said.
The outlook ''may overstate nuclear power's future role'' because it does not account for the reaction to the March disaster in Japan caused by an earthquake and a tsunami that caused meltdowns and radiation leaks at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant, Mr. Gruenspecht said.
The report projected that nuclear power would almost double, to 4.9 trillion kilowatt-hours by 2035, from 2.6 trillion kilowatt-hours in 2008.
After the disaster in Japan, Germany said it would close its nuclear plants by 2022, and the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission said it would consider new regulations for the 104 American commercial reactors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY DEMAND (91%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (79%); EMISSIONS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); NATURAL GAS CONSUMPTION (70%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (67%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (67%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (67%); GREENHOUSE GASES (65%); TSUNAMIS (61%); CLOSINGS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (84%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOHOKU, JAPAN (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (94%); CHINA (94%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (65%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



835 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: 2010 Data Show Surge In Poor Young Families

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE; Robbie Brown contributed reporting from Atlanta.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- More than one in three young families with children were living in poverty last year, according to an analysis of census data by the Center for Labor Market Studies at Northeastern University.
At 37 percent, it was the highest level on record for the group, surpassing the previous peak of 36 percent in 1993, according to the analysis by Ishwar Khatiwada, an economist at the center. By comparison, the rate was about 25 percent in 2000.
The economic distress among the country's youngest families -- defined as under the age of 30 -- is in contrast to the poverty rate for elderly families, which remained low in 2010, at 5.7 percent, according to the analysis. In the 1970s, poverty was only slightly higher for younger families than for families headed by someone age 65 or over. 
The change is evidence of shifting policy priorities that are putting the next generation at risk at a time when competition in the labor market has never been tougher, said Andrew Sum, an economics professor at Northeastern and the director of the center.
''Young families with children are now six times as likely to be poor as elderly families,'' Professor Sum said. ''This is a major generational change. From a public policy standpoint, we should be very deeply troubled by this.''
Economists cited several reasons for the rise. First was the economy. College degrees hold greater value now, while opportunities for low-skilled workers have dwindled, as manufacturing and other industries have declined. That has pushed more young families into poverty.
The number of men in their 20s with only a high school degree who worked full time fell by 22 percent from 2007 to 2010, while those with a college degree dropped by just 1 percent, according to census data. Fewer than a third of high school dropouts in their 20s were working full time last year.
''Dropping out of high school in 1970 was much less costly than dropping out of high school now,'' said Richard Murnane, an economist at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. ''That's purely a function of changes in the economy.''
At the same time, the fortunes of poorer Americans, especially those with children, are more closely tied to the labor market because welfare reform in the 1990s made cash assistance harder to obtain. It was hailed as a success for getting more mothers to work, but now that jobs are scarce, young families have little to fall back on.
Robert Moffitt, an economist at Johns Hopkins University, said there had been a shift of resources from the young to the elderly that dates back to the 1980s.
In an analysis of government transfers over time, Professor Moffitt found that aid to the elderly living on less than half of poverty-level income rose by 13 percent from 1984 to 2004, while aid to single-parent families in the same situation dropped by about 38 percent.
''The worst-off families have been left behind,'' Professor Moffitt said.
For Margaret Allstrom, a 27-year-old divorced mother of two in Atlanta, being a mother has made it harder to get hired. She lost her full-time job when the recession began and now supports her children with three part-time jobs, as a waitress, a teacher and a freelance print maker.
''Whenever I go to a job interview, that comes up -- they're not going to hire a mom,'' Ms. Allstrom said. ''Technically it's not legal. But they ask questions like, 'What's important in your life?' You're going to mention your kids, and then they know.''
Children bear more than their share of the burden of poverty, accounting for 35 percent of people who were poor last year, but only 24 percent of the population, according to census data. That lopsided ratio handicaps the next generation of American workers, advocates for children say.
''The younger you are, the poorer you are, and that's a disgrace,'' said Marian Wright Edelman, president of the Children's Defense Fund. ''We need an educated work force, and that starts in the early years.''
Some of the highest rates are among black and Hispanic children, who are close to becoming the majority of the child population in the country. About two in five black children were poor last year, according to census data. The ratio was slightly lower for Hispanics.
Greg Duncan, a professor of education at the University of California, Irvine, said young children living in poverty were less likely to succeed in school, in part because stressful and traumatic conditions impeded learning.
Vernae Jones, 22, moved with her three children back into her parents' house in Atlanta after losing her job at Kroger. Almost all the children in her daughter's preschool qualify for reduced price lunches, Ms. Jones said. Most have young parents.
''It's just a hard time to be a parent,'' she said.
Ms. Jones receives food stamps, a noncash assistance program the census poverty calculation does not count. But out-of-pocket medical and child care costs are not included in the official measure either. Timothy Smeeding, a professor at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, estimated that poverty figures scheduled for release by the Census Bureau next month, which include all those adjustments, would probably be higher than those published last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POOR POPULATION (90%); CHILD POVERTY (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); CENSUS (90%); FAMILY (90%); POVERTY RATES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (86%); WORKING MOTHERS (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); SENIOR CITIZENS (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (71%); AGING (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



836 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: Moving Jobs Across Hudson, Company Wins Tax Breaks From Both Sides

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
Pearson Education could teach someone a few things about how to play one state off against another.
The educational media company, a division of the corporation, based in London, that publishes The Financial Times, said Monday that it would move about 650 jobs to Manhattan from suburban offices in New Jersey and Westchester County. Some of the cost of moving will be offset by at least $13.5 million, and possibly as much as $50 million, in tax breaks and other incentives offered by city and state agencies in New York.
City officials framed the arrangement as a victory over New Jersey officials, who have been offering large packages of financial incentives to attract and retain big employers. But just last week, New Jersey agreed to provide $82 million in cost savings to Pearson, which plans to take more than 1, 200 jobs out of Upper Saddle River, N.J., by 2014 and send more than 600 of them to Hoboken, N.J. One of the stated reasons for New Jersey's largess was to keep all those jobs from going to Manhattan. 
So, to recap: Pearson could receive as much as $132 million in incentives for deciding to move half its Upper Saddle River jobs to Manhattan and the other half to Hoboken. But the net gain in jobs for the New York metropolitan area would be close to zero. And still, officials on both sides of the Hudson River seemed quite pleased with the deals they had struck.
''You know, I don't think we should focus on where the jobs are coming from as much as, we're happy to have the jobs come here,'' Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said at a news conference to announce Pearson's plans. So far, the city has committed only $4.5 million to Pearson, in discounts on energy to be supplied by Consolidated Edison, the mayor said. ''We're giving away Con Ed's money,'' he said. ''We're not doing anything with city money.''
But a spokeswoman for Pearson Education, Wendy Spiegel, said the company hoped to secure an additional $38 million in breaks from the city through two other incentive programs.
To attract the 628 jobs from New Jersey, New York State agreed to provide $9 million in tax breaks to Pearson, with a formula based on salaries and how much capital investment the move would prompt. City and state officials estimated that, on average, the jobs would pay $72,000 a year; and Pearson and its landlord in Manhattan would spend about $20 million on building improvements.
Pearson plans to move an additional 20 jobs to Manhattan from White Plains, said Elizabeth Mitchell, a spokeswoman for Empire State Development, the state's economic development agency. But she said that those intrastate moves would not qualify for incentives from the state, though they might earn breaks from the city.
New Jersey's Economic Development Authority has not been shy about providing incentives to companies moving within the state. Timothy J. Lizura, the agency's senior vice president of finance and development, said Pearson was not likely to collect more than $66 million of the $82 million package the agency's board approved last week. Most of that $66 million, he said, would go toward the construction of a high-rise building on the Hoboken riverfront whose tenants would include Pearson.
''The jobs will come and go, but that building will be there for the next 50 years,'' Mr. Lizura said. Still, he said New Jersey officials come out ''guns a-blazin' '' whenever a big company says it might leave the state. ''Sometimes we keep all the jobs; sometimes we get half the jobs, as we did in Pearson.''
But Bettina Damiani, who scrutinizes incentive deals in the city at the government watchdog group Good Jobs New York, said all the public benefits going to a successful company like Pearson seemed unjustifiable in a time of high unemployment for low-skilled workers. ''How are they going to help the unemployment rate for New Yorkers if this is where our tax dollars are going?'' Ms. Damiani said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX INCENTIVES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); SUBURBS (72%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (63%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%)

COMPANY: PEARSON PLC (96%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (91%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (53%)

TICKER: PSON (LSE) (96%); PSO (NYSE) (96%); ED (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (96%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (96%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (53%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



837 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Obama Proposes $320 Billion in Medicare and Medicaid Cuts Over 10 Years

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama's budget director said Monday that the president's new deficit-reduction plan would impose ''a lot of pain,'' and that is clearly true of White House proposals to cut $320 billion from projected spending on Medicare and Medicaid in the coming decade.
Mr. Obama proposed higher premiums and deductibles for many Medicare beneficiaries and lower Medicare payments to teaching hospitals and rural hospitals. He would start charging co-payments to frail homebound older people who receive home health services. And he would reduce the growth of federal payments to states for treating low-income people under Medicaid. 
The White House said Mr. Obama's proposals would cut $248 billion from the projected growth of Medicare in the next 10 years, while shaving $72 billion from Medicaid and other health programs. A large share of the Medicare savings would, in effect, be used to pay doctors, who would otherwise face deep cuts in the fees they receive for treating Medicare patients.
The proposals are part of a package to reduce deficits by more than $3 trillion over 10 years, beyond the $1 trillion in savings already assumed under the debt limit law that Mr. Obama signed in early August. The package includes tax changes intended to raise $1.5 trillion in revenue over 10 years.
Mr. Obama would also allow the Postal Service to cut its losses by ending Saturday mail delivery. He would reduce farm subsidies by $31 billion over 10 years, require federal employees to contribute more to their pension plans, force military retirees to pay more for prescription drugs and charge higher fees to air travelers for ''aviation security.''
Jacob J. Lew, director of the White House Office of Management and Budget, rejected suggestions that the White House was going after rich people.
''If you look at the details of what's in the plan that the president is sending to the Congress,'' Mr. Lew said, ''there is a lot of pain, and it's spread -- it's spread broadly and we think fairly.''
Medicare and Medicaid insure more than 100 million people and account for nearly one-fourth of all federal spending. The proposed savings, which provoked predictable protests from health care providers, represent less than 3 percent of what the government expects to spend on the programs in the next 10 years.
Speaking in the Rose Garden on Monday, Mr. Obama said his plan -- in the form of recommendations to a bipartisan Congressional committee on deficit reduction -- ''includes structural reforms to reduce the cost of health care in programs like Medicare and Medicaid.''
The proposal would require new beneficiaries to pay higher deductibles before Medicare coverage of doctors' services and other outpatient care kicks in. The deductible, now $162 a year, is already adjusted for inflation. Mr. Obama would increase it further by $25 in 2017, 2019 and 2021.
In addition, the White House would increase Medicare premiums by about 30 percent for new beneficiaries who buy generous private insurance to help fill gaps in Medicare.
Many beneficiaries choose these private Medigap policies because they want the financial security they get from the extra insurance. But the White House said this protection ''gives individuals less incentive to consider the costs of health care and thus raises Medicare costs.''
Mr. Obama would raise $20 billion over 10 years by charging higher premiums to higher-income beneficiaries and by freezing the income thresholds so more people would have to pay the surcharges.
About 5 percent of the 48 million Medicare beneficiaries now pay the higher premiums. The proportion would eventually rise to 25 percent under the proposal.
Starting in 2017, Mr. Obama would require certain new beneficiaries to pay co-payments for home health care, which is now exempt from such charges. The co-payment would be $100 per episode, defined as a series of five or more home health visits not preceded by a stay in a hospital or a skilled nursing home.
Howard J. Bedlin, vice president of the National Council on Aging, a service and advocacy group, said such co-payments would ''significantly increase out-of-pocket costs for many low-income widows with multiple chronic conditions.'' Likewise, Mr. Bedlin said, ''The Medigap proposal would shift costs onto Medicare beneficiaries.''
Mr. Obama also proposed these changes:
Require drug companies to provide additional discounts, or rebates, to Medicare for prescription drugs bought by low-income beneficiaries. This proposal, opposed by drug makers, would save the government $135 billion over 10 years.
Squeeze $42 billion over 10 years from Medicare payments to nursing homes, home health agencies and rehabilitation hospitals. Cut Medicare payments to nursing homes with large numbers of patients hospitalized because they did not receive appropriate care in the nursing home.
Require doctors to get approval from Medicare for the most expensive imaging services.
Revise the formula for calculating Medicaid payments to states, saving $15 billion over 10 years. Restrict states' ability to finance their share of costs by imposing taxes on care providers.
Cut $3.5 billion over 10 years from a prevention and public health fund created by the new health care law.
Another White House proposal would save $20 billion over 10 years by reducing Medicare payments to hospitals and other providers for bad debts that result when beneficiaries fail to pay deductibles and co-payments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (76%); HOSPITALS (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (72%); TAX LAW (72%); RURAL HEALTH (71%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (71%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (71%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (69%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (66%); MEDICAID (57%); HOME HEALTH CARE (56%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); POSTAL SERVICE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



838 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: Public Schools Face the Rising Costs of Serving Lunch

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
The federal government is making school meals more nutritious this year, but also more expensive.
Under a little-noticed provision of the child nutrition bill signed by President Obama in December, which brought more fresh produce and less whole milk to cafeterias nationwide, school districts are required to start bringing their prices in line with what it costs to prepare the meals, eventually charging an average of $2.46 for the lunches they serve.
Though the law suggests that prices go up by a maximum of 10 cents a year, the town of Seymour, Conn., raised its prices by 25 cents, after years without increases; the new prices, $2.25 a day for elementary school pupils, $2.50 for middle-school students and $2.75 for high school students -- are listed on the district's Web site, just under the words, ''Welcome Back to School!'' In Suffolk County, on Long Island, the president of the Board of Education at the Riverhead Central School District -- which also raised prices by a quarter a day, or 12.5 percent for most students -- said that parents had cornered her and other officials at supermarkets, gas stations and before meetings, questioning the increase.
''All we could tell them was we really had no choice,'' said the president, Ann Cotten-DeGrasse. 
Officials are already bracing for a backlash as the increases pile up.
''Our parents haven't complained, but I don't know if they'll be as understanding if we do it again next year, and the year after, and then the year after that,'' said Louise D'Angelo, director of food services at the North Syracuse Central School District in upstate New York, where lunch prices just went up by 25 cents across all grades -- to $1.75 in elementary school, $2 in middle school and $2.25 in high school.
The new pricing requirement, which comes amid school budget cuts and a lingering recession, is the first time the federal government has gotten into the business of cafeteria prices since its school lunch program was established in 1946. Under the roughly $10 billion program, families with incomes up to 130 percent of the poverty level-- $28,665 a year for a family of four -- are eligible for free meals. Those that earn 130 percent to 185 percent of poverty level, or $40,793 for a family of four, qualify for reduced-price meals.
The federal government reimburses districts $2.72 for free meals, $2.32 for reduced-price meals and 26 cents for the rest. Generally, this money is combined with proceeds from the sale of meals and snacks into a single pot. But there is a wide range of what districts charge paying customers: in Fairfax County, Va., lunch costs $2.65 in elementary school and $2.75 in middle and high schools, while in Austin, Tex., it is $2.15 and $2.50, respectively. Other districts have kept prices far lower than costs -- in New York City, for example, there is a $1.10 gap -- to make lunch affordable.
A study published last year by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a research organization in Washington, argued that this arrangement ''appears to be subsidizing meals for children whose families are much better off'' than the children for whom the reimbursements are meant. It urged a gradual rise in lunch prices to prevent federal money from being ''siphoned off to keep prices low for paid meals.''
Congress heeded the suggestion, tying an increase of 6 cents in the reimbursement rates, the first in 30 years, to the mandate for increased meal prices in the child nutrition bill.
Based on a convoluted formula that takes into account inflation and the average price of meals sold in schools, certain districts -- like New York City, where lunch is sold for $1.50 -- did not have to raise prices this year. But next year, it could be different, unless the districts decide to use their own money to subsidize lunches.
The mandatory increases in meal prices are ''a recognition that over time, the money coming in to schools from the sale of paid meals has not kept pace with the cost of preparing those meals,'' said Kevin Concannon, under secretary for food, nutrition and consumer services at the Department of Agriculture, which oversees the school meal program. ''The consideration here is the transition and giving school districts time to make the adjustments that they need to serve healthier meals to all our kids.''
But Eric Goldstein, who oversees the New York City schools' food program, said the law ''misses the point.'' Price increases threaten to upend the delicate balance of school food operations, Mr. Goldstein said, as they might compel more parents to pack their children's lunches or to skip on paying cafeteria lunch fees altogether -- already a huge problem, with the city absorbing $42 million in unpaid fees since 2004.
Mr. Concannon, of the Agriculture Department, said the bill ''seeks to ensure that the level of support for all school meals is equal.'' Mr. Goldstein said the goal was ''unrealistic.''
''We want to serve the same food for everyone, in the same cafeteria, to have everyone eating together,'' Mr. Goldstein said. ''It shouldn't be that we have to say, this is for this child, and this is for that child, and here's money to pay for this and here's money for that.''
Then, there is the financial burden that higher meal prices would carry for families whose income lies just above the cutoff line for reduced-price lunches, for which schools can charge no more than 40 cents. (They cost 25 cents in New York City.)
''We could be shooting ourselves in the foot here if we're not setting prices at a level that parents are able or willing to pay,'' said Diane Pratt-Heavner, a spokeswoman for the School Nutrition Association, which represents cafeteria administrators.
Cindy Brooks, the food service director in Seymour, a 2,500-student district northwest of New Haven, said she had been closely monitoring the sales of paid meals, which provide the bulk of her revenues, since the 25-cent price increase went into effect.
''I'm worried,'' Ms. Brooks said. ''A lot of our families are struggling to make ends meet.''
And in North Syracuse, Ms. D'Angelo said the entire pricing structure was out of balance. After labor costs, she said, she is left with 15 cents per lunch to buy ingredients, repair equipment and equip cafeterias.
''The federal government knows this is not enough to pay for the food we make,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Under a provision of the new child nutrition bill, which brought healthier food for school lunches, some school systems must charge more. Because of a complicated formula, New York City schools did not have to raise the $1.50 price this year. (A12)
 A salad bar at a New York City public school typifies the healthier approach to school lunches under the child nutrition bill. But Eric Goldstein, right, who oversees the city schools' food program, said price increases threatened to upend the delicate balance of school food operations. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); SCHOOL MEAL PROGRAMS (89%); FAMILY (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (75%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (73%); NUTRITION (73%); GAS STATIONS (72%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (68%); BUDGETS (66%); BUDGET CUTS (61%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



839 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Is Quietly Getting Ready for a Syria Without an Assad

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Increasingly convinced that President Bashar al-Assad of Syria will not be able to remain in power, the Obama administration has begun to make plans for American policy in the region after he exits.
In coordination with Turkey, the United States has been exploring how to deal with the possibility of a civil war among Syria's Alawite, Druse, Christian and Sunni sects, a conflict that could quickly ignite other tensions in an already volatile region.
While other countries have withdrawn their ambassadors from Damascus, Obama administration officials say they are leaving in place the American ambassador, Robert S. Ford, despite the risks, so he can maintain contact with opposition leaders and the leaders of the country's myriad sects and religious groups. 
Officials at the State Department have also been pressing Syria's opposition leaders to unite as they work to bring down the Assad government, and to build a new government.
The Obama administration is determined to avoid a repeat of the aftermath of the American invasion of Iraq. Though the United States did not stint in its effort to oust Saddam Hussein, many foreign policy experts now say that the undertaking came at the expense of detailed planning about how to manage Iraq's warring factions after his removal.
Syria is sure to be discussed when President Obama meets Tuesday with Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey on the periphery of the United Nations General Assembly meeting in New York, administration officials say. A senior administration official said the abandonment of Mr. Assad by Turkey, Saudi Arabia and European nations would increase his isolation, particularly as his military became more exhausted by the lengthening crackdown.
Another Obama administration official said that with 90 percent of Syria's oil exports going to Europe, shutting the European market to Damascus could have a crippling effect on the Syrian economy and could put additional pressure on Mr. Assad's government.
''Back in the 1990s, if Syria wanted credit and trade and loans that they couldn't get from the United States, they went to the Europeans,'' said Ray Takeyh, a senior fellow for Middle Eastern studies at the Council on Foreign Relations and a former Obama administration official. Now, Mr. Takeyh said, Europe has joined the United States in imposing sanctions on Syrian exports, including its critical oil sector.
Aside from Iran, he said, Syria has few allies to turn to. ''The Chinese recognize their economic development is more contingent on their relationship with us and Europe than on whether Assad or Qaddafi survives,'' he said, referring to the deposed Libyan leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi.
Eight months ago, the thought of Syria without a member of the Assad family at the helm seemed about as far-fetched as the thought of Egypt without Hosni Mubarak or Libya without Colonel Qaddafi.
But intelligence officials and diplomats in the Middle East, Europe and the United States increasingly believe that Mr. Assad may not be able to beat back the gathering storm at the gates of Damascus.
Mr. Obama's call last month for Mr. Assad to step down came after months of internal debate, which included lengthy discussions about whether a Syria without Mr. Assad would lead to the kind of bloody civil war that consumed Iraq after the fall of Mr. Hussein.
The shift moved the administration from discussing whether to call for Mr. Assad's ouster to discussing how to help bring it about, and what to do after that.
''There's a real consensus that he's beyond the pale and over the edge,'' the senior Obama administration official said. ''Intelligence services say he's not coming back.''
To be sure, Mr. Assad may yet prove as immovable as his father, Hafez al-Assad, was before him. Many foreign policy analysts say that the longer Mr. Assad remains in power, the more violent the country will become. And that violence, they say, could unintentionally serve Mr. Assad's interests by allowing him to use it to justify a continuing crackdown.
Many factors may make his exit more difficult than the departures of Mr. Mubarak in Egypt and President Zine el-Abidine Ben Ali in Tunisia. For one thing, both the United States and Europe have become more distracted in recent weeks by their economic crises.
Furthermore, while Tunisia, Egypt, Libya and even Yemen all imploded, those eruptions were largely internal, with their most significant ramifications limited to the examples they set in the Arab world. A collapse in Syria, on the other hand, could lead to an external explosion that would affect Iran, Lebanon, Jordan, Israel and even Iraq, foreign policy experts say, particularly if it dissolves into an Iraq-style civil war.
''The Sunnis are increasingly arming, and the situation is polarizing,'' said Vali Nasr, a former Obama administration official in the State Department and the author of ''The Shia Revival: How Conflicts Within Islam Will Shape the Future.''
''Iran and Hezbollah are backing the regime,'' Mr. Nasr said. ''There's a lot of awareness across the regime that this is going to be pretty ugly.''
That awareness is fueling the desire to plan for a post-Assad era, Obama administration officials say. ''Nobody wants another Iraq,'' one administration official said on Saturday, speaking on the condition of anonymity.
At the same time, the administration does not want to look as if the United States is trying to orchestrate the outcome in Syria, for fear that the image of American intervention might do the Syrian opposition more harm than good. In particular, administration officials say that they do not want to give the Iranian government -- which has huge interests in the Syrian government and is Mr. Assad's biggest supporter -- an excuse to intervene.
But one administration official pointed to the remarkable call earlier this month by Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, for Mr. Assad to ease up on his crackdown as a sign that even Iran's leaders are worried about the Syrian president's prospects.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); RELIGION (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); IRAQ WAR (71%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (71%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); HOSNI MUBARAK (58%); RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); SYRIA (96%); EUROPE (95%); TURKEY (94%); IRAQ (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EGYPT (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



840 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: Climate Change: Science vs. Skepticism

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Is It Weird Enough Yet?,'' by Thomas L. Friedman (column, Sept. 14):
I agree strongly that ''we need to take steps to mitigate climate change -- just in case Governor Perry is wrong.''
The French philosopher and mathematician Blaise Pascal, in what has become known as Pascal's wager, suggested that even people who did not believe in God should act as if they did, since being wrong could be catastrophic. 
I would say to the climate skeptics: If you do not believe in climate change but act as if you did, even if you are right, the result would be a society with clean, sustainable jobs, less dependence on Mideast oil and healthier lives. But if you are wrong and we do not act immediately, the results would be catastrophic.
PHILLIP GOTTSCHALK Montville, N.J., Sept. 14, 2011
To the Editor:
Thomas L. Friedman is obviously correct to point out that Gov. Rick Perry's and Representative Michele Bachmann's views on climate change are wrong. But it's clear that they won't have their minds changed simply by showing them more scientific data or by explaining to them that 97 percent of the most published climate researchers -- the group of people on the planet most knowledgeable about the subject -- agree that human activities are causing rapid climate change.
The problem is that their denial of reality is a byproduct of a culture that marginalizes the scientific method as a way of thinking and promotes faith as a virtue, even if it is in direct opposition to the facts. Changing their minds about climate change will take more than presenting the evidence for it. It will require a seismic shift in the way they choose to understand reality.
MARK BESSOUDO Toronto, Sept. 15, 2011
To the Editor:
Like many people, I don't know if the climate is actually changing or, if it is, whether or not it is caused by carbon emissions, agricultural practices, solar activity or even cow flatulence. I do know, though, that like most people who want to breathe clean air and have a healthy planet, I strongly support realistic, comprehensible and well-enforced regulations that will protect our environment without stifling economic growth.
I think it is called common sense.
VAUGHN GILBERT McKeesport, Pa., Sept. 14, 2011
To the Editor:
Thomas L. Friedman claims there is dispositive scientific proof of climate change. The fires in Texas are a result of droughts, caused by the hottest Texas summer on record, which was caused by climate change, which was caused by manmade carbon emissions.
There's just one little problem. The previous temperature record was set in 1934. This raises the question, if hot weather and droughts today are a result of climate change caused by increased manmade carbon emissions, what were the hot weather and droughts (remember the Dust Bowl?) in 1934 caused by? Maybe the science isn't so irrefutable.
FREDRIC MORCK Redwood City, Calif., Sept. 14, 2011
To the Editor:
Thomas L. Friedman suggests that Representative Michele Bachmann and Gov. Rick Perry are crazy for denying the existence of global warming. They're not crazy; they are ideologues. After all, it's nearly impossible to deny that the planet is warming. The only real debate is whether global warming is caused by humans.
Mr. Friedman says America needs to implement a carbon tax or a cap-and-trade system to mitigate the emission of greenhouse gases, which cause global warming. I agree, but now is not the time for that regulation. For the 14 million Americans who are currently unemployed, Washington has one job and that's getting American workers back to work. Increased environmental regulation would only add to the uncertainty of economic conditions, discouraging corporate investment in job creation.
MIKE BROST Eau Claire, Wis., Sept. 14, 2011
To the Editor:
I can't help but note that politicians like Rick Perry and Michele Bachmann, who demand absolute scientific proof that climate change is real, are the same ones who treat as undisputed fact the assumption that tax cuts for the wealthy create jobs for the unemployed.
BRUCE HARVILLE Madison, Wis., Sept. 14, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOREN CULL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (89%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (77%); PHILOSOPHY (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (71%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (89%); RICK PERRY (72%); MICHELE BACHMANN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (71%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



841 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE BACHMANN CAMPAIGN; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: Another Rollins Hit

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
Visit msnbc.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy
Ed Rollins is at it again.
Mr. Rollins, the former campaign manager for Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota, has questioned her ability to extend her campaign for the Republican presidential nomination beyond Iowa, the first state in the nation to hold a nominating contest. 
In an interview on MSNBC, Mr. Rollins told Andrea Mitchell that Mrs. Bachmann does not have the money or resources to compete with her better-financed rivals, like Mitt Romney and Rick Perry.
''Right now, she's competing hard in Iowa,'' Mr. Rollins said. But, he added, ''she doesn't have the ability or resources to go beyond that, Iowa, at this point in time, where Perry and Romney can go into South Carolina, Arizona and other places.''
The criticism of Mrs. Bachmann is hardly the first for Mr. Rollins since he abruptly departed her campaign earlier this month, citing his own health issues. Last week, Mr. Rollins criticized Mrs. Bachmann for repeating a woman's claim that her daughter had become ''retarded'' after receiving a vaccine for the human papillomavirus.
Aides to Mrs. Bachmann's campaign have said there was no ill will when Mr. Rollins left. And they say he remains an ''important'' strategic adviser for the presidential campaign.
But in citing Mrs. Bachmann's resource problem, Mr. Rollins was acting more like a television analyst than a campaign spinmeister. By doing so, he put his finger on what may be Mrs. Bachmann's biggest roadblock to actually winning the Republican nomination and the White House.
Her campaign has always said winning Iowa early next year will be critical. But if Mrs. Bachmann is unable to build a national organization in other states, she could end up like Mike Huckabee, whose 2008 campaign quickly ran out of steam after he won the Iowa caucuses that year.
Mr. Huckabee was able to raise money at a healthy clip after his victory, but without having built a national campaign infrastructure in other states, he was quickly overwhelmed by his more well-financed rivals. Mr. Rollins -- a veteran in presidential politics -- seems to be saying the same thing is true for his former client.
The real question may be: Why is he saying it now? Advisers over at the Bachmann campaign can't be too happy.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (77%); VIRUSES (66%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (53%)

PERSON: MICHELE BACHMANN (91%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); RICK PERRY (72%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



842 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: An Unconventional Strategist Reshaping Romney

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER

 BODY:
The man in charge of reshaping Mitt Romney's image as a presidential candidate -- this time around Mr. Romney is crisper, more relaxed and almost always without a tie -- has skied the last 100 miles to the North Pole and eaten his way through Europe's three-star Michelin restaurants.
That operative, Stuart Stevens, 58, has detractors in the small but intensely competitive universe of Republican strategists, and in many ways his proclivity for extremes makes him starkly different from his strait-laced client.But Mr. Stevens emerged from an internal power struggle in 2008 to become Mr. Romney's senior strategist this time around, a driving force behind the campaign's relentless focus on jobs, the effort to help Mr. Romney connect more with voters and the newly aggressive strategy against Gov. Rick Perry of Texas. 
A veteran of presidential races, Mr. Stevens has brought to the Romney team a laid-back, hang-loose, though intense, vibe, infusing the campaign with his Southern cadence -- he is a native of Jackson, Miss. -- and wisecracking banter. Whereas Mr. Romney is a linear thinker who tends to home in on the details, Mr. Stevens is a creative, big-picture person who tries to focus on winning the election rather than simply winning the day. He and Mr. Romney like to go back and forth over everything from what is leading The Drudge Report to when and how to take on Mr. Perry.
''I believe the governor respects Stuart as someone who knows how to craft a good argument, and he's someone who likes to hear a good argument and give it back, and the back and forth is really helpful for both of them,'' said Russ Schriefer, Mr. Stevens's business partner of more than two decades. ''There's always that moment in a campaign when you're down to the candidate and a couple of people sitting in a room, and Stuart is very comfortable being in that room and making those decisions, and I think that confidence penetrates throughout the campaign.''
Mr. Stevens, who declined to be interviewed on the record, grew up in the 1960s South, where most of the Democrats he knew were good ol' boy segregationists. To him, the young, exciting politicians were all Republicans, and he joined their team and never looked back. His first presidential campaign was Bob Dole's 1996 bid, and he was part of George W. Bush's media team in 2000 and 2004. He and Mr. Schriefer, whose campaigns have included those of Chris Christie and Haley Barbour, jumped from a role with Senator John McCain's campaign to Mr. Romney's in the summer of 2007, but clashed with the existing campaign media team.
Along the way, he has picked up his share of critics who say that his ego can be outsize and that he can be sharp-elbowed with rivals. Mike Murphy, a Republican strategist, once circulated a video compilation of Mr. Stevens's ads in an effort to show that while the candidates were different, the spots remained almost identical. And in a phone interview, Mr. Murphy called him ''a slippery character.''
Mr. Romney's first presidential bid was full of consultants flying in and out, and an unsure candidate who seemed to lurch between positions, unable to connect with voters. But this campaign is closer to the one Mr. Stevens wished he had runin 2008. He keeps an apartment across the street from Romney headquarters on the outskirts of Boston's North End, and jokes about installing a zip line, so he can glide into work every morning.
The first time around, the Romney operation had a more corporate atmosphere, with an implicit suit-and-tie dress code; the 2012 shop feels like a cross between a marketing firm and a tech start-up -- sleeker, sharper and more streamlined. Mr. Romney has dropped the tie for a more casual khakis or jeans and a collared-shirt look, and Mr. Stevens, as always, is likely to be found in jeans and loafers or sneakers.
''He is not a political consultant out of central casting,'' said Stephen Merrill, a former governor of New Hampshire. ''When you sit down with him, you never know if the first sentence is going to be, 'I'm going to sail around the world,' or 'I'm going to write a book about moon exploration' or 'I'm going to climb Mount Kilimanjaro.' ''
Mr. Stevens likes to devise a central message around what he believes are his candidate's signature strengths. Mr. Romney has tried to differentiate himself from the rest of the Republican field by emphasizing how his years in the private sector and business background give him credibility and the right skills when it comes to jobs and the economy.
Mr. Stevens and Mr. Schriefer also handle ads for the campaign. They pride themselves on being able to turn around commercials in less than a day, and Mr. Stevens was the brains behind the campaign's best-known spot so far. It featured people lying, zombielike, on their backs in the desert, before slowly standing up and telling the camera they're ''an American, not a bump in the road,'' referring to a phrase Mr. Obama invoked to explain a spate of bad economic news en route to a recovery.
''When he gets a bit in his mouth, it's hard to take it out,'' said Mark McKinnon, a Republican strategist who first met Mr. Stevens in 1999 when he brought him onto the Bush campaign. ''People are either hot or cold on him; you either like him or you don't.''
Those who do not like Mr. Stevens find him cocky -- someone who thinks he is smarter and better than many in the business -- and Mr. Stevens might not disagree. Nor does he much care about being liked. He likes politics for its blood-sport aspect, but he cannot abide by the bureaucracy of actual governing.
''He plays by no rules in his life,'' Mr. McKinnon said. ''He is not shackled by the normal sort of chains that most people are.''
Mr. Stevens has worked on several television shows (''Northern Exposure,'' ''I'll Fly Away'') and written five books -- three travel books, a chronicle of Mr. Bush's first presidential campaign called ''The Big Enchilada,'' and a culinary adventure-log through Europe, after he was inspired by A. J. Liebling's food journalism. In casual conversation, he is likely to digress into tangents on books and writers, like the sibling rivalry between Ian and Peter Fleming. He is also an extreme-sports aficionado who once engaged in performance-enhancing doping on the amateur cyclist circle to understand its effects firsthand for an article in Outside magazine.
In a long essay for The New York Times' Play Magazine about why he loves endurance sports like triathlons, cross-country skiing and cycling, Mr. Stevens wrote, ''As a kid growing up in the Deep South, what I liked most about sports was the endless opportunities presented to hit somebody and not get into trouble.''
Much like endurance sports, campaigns are about winning and losing, fighting hard and living on the adrenaline-fueled edge. His life as a political consultant, Mr. Stevens wrote, ''served as an outlet for my violent tendencies.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Stuart Stevens, Mitt Romney's senior adviser, talked to a reporter after a Republican debate in California this month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Mitt Romney on the campaign trail in 2008
 Mr. Stevens advised him during that race but clashed with other operatives. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY / THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SKIING (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); RICK PERRY (75%); HALEY BARBOUR (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSON, MS, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



843 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Sought Clean-Energy Money for Home States

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- On the Senate floor and the television airwaves, Senator Mitch McConnell has lambasted the Obama administration over what he has described as its failed efforts to stimulate new jobs through clean-energy projects backed with billions of dollars in federal loans or other assistance.
But Mr. McConnell, of Kentucky, is one of several prominent Republicans who have worked to steer federal money to clean-energy projects in their home states, Energy Department documents show. 
Mr. McConnell made two personal appeals in 2009, asking Energy Secretary Steven Chu to approve as much as $235 million in federal loans for a plant to build electric vehicles in Franklin, Ky.
''I hope you will realize the importance of such job creation to Kentucky,'' Mr. McConnell said in a July 2009 memo supporting an application from Zap Motor Manufacturing.
Federal lobbying disclosure records show that Mr. McConnell's support for the project came after Zap Motor hired a Kentucky-based lobbyist, Robert Babbage, who has been a frequent contributor to Mr. McConnell's campaigns and boasts on his own Internet site about his close ties to Mr. McConnell.
Mr. Babbage declined to comment on the project. Gary Dodd, chief executive of Zap Motor, said the intervention by Mr. McConnell came after the company asked him to push the Energy Department to approve the loan.
Mr. McConnell's office, in a statement, defended his actions, saying, ''There was no effort to push the administration to short-circuit its due diligence simply to plan a ribbon-cutting.''
Mr. McConnell's high-level advocacy took place despite early struggles for the project, including the financial collapse in 2008 of its first Kentucky business partner, Integrity Manufacturing. Mr. McConnell made no mention of these stumbles as he pushed for federal money, simply saying Zap Motor might create as many as 4,000 jobs in his state.
Recently, he has joined with other Republicans in criticizing a March 2009 decision by the Obama administration to provide a $535 million government-backed loan to a California solar-panel manufacturer, Solyndra, which recently filed for bankruptcy and is now the subject of inquiries by the F.B.I. and Congress.
''The White House fact-tracked a half-billion-dollar loan to a politically connected energy firm,'' Mr. McConnell said Thursday in remarks on the Senate floor. ''This place was supposed to be the poster child of how the original stimulus would create jobs.''
Another Republican, Representative Lamar Smith of Texas, recently asked Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. to appoint an outside investigator to determine how the Department of Energy distributes clean-energy money. But in 2009, Mr. Smith wrote to Mr. Chu asking him to approve loan guarantees from stimulus money for a Texas project proposed by Tessera Solar, documents show.
Representative Fred Upton, Republican of Michigan and another critic of the Energy Department program, signed letters along with other members of the Michigan delegation in 2009 and 2010, pushing at least five clean-energy projects in his state, including a $207 million loan request from EcoMotors International. And Representative Cliff Stearns, Republican of Florida, praised the opening last year of a lithium-ion battery manufacturing plant in his state, which relied upon an Energy Department grant.
Mr. Smith, along with the others, defended their actions, saying lawmakers can be critical of the Energy Department programs while still seeking money.
''I wanted to support Texas companies in their applications for grants,'' Mr. Smith said in a statement. ''It is the responsibility of the Obama administration to carry out the necessary financial reviews of these proposals.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LOBBYING (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); APPROVALS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); JOB CREATION (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (75%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (70%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (70%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (63%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (55%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

COMPANY: SOLYNDRA INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: MITCH MCCONNELL (93%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); STEVEN CHU (58%); ERIC HOLDER (58%); LAMAR SMITH (56%); FRED UPTON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



844 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: New Fields May Propel Americas To Top of Oil Companies' Lists

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

 BODY:
RIO DE JANEIRO -- Brazil has begun building its first nuclear submarine to protect its vast, new offshore oil discoveries. Colombia's oil production is climbing so fast that it is closing in on Algeria's and could hit Libya's prewar levels in a few years. ExxonMobil is striking new deals in Argentina, which recently heralded its biggest oil discovery since the 1980s.
Up and down the Americas, it is a similar story: a Chinese-built rig is preparing to drill in Cuban waters; a Canadian official has suggested that unemployed Americans could move north to help fill tens of thousands of new jobs in Canada's expanding oil sands; and one of the hemisphere's hottest new oil pursuits is actually in the United States, at a shale formation in North Dakota's prairie that is producing 400,000 barrels of oil a day and is part of a broader shift that could ease American dependence on Middle Eastern oil.
For the first time in decades, the emerging prize of global energy may be the Americas, where Western oil companies are refocusing their gaze in a rush to explore clusters of coveted oil fields. 
''This is an historic shift that's occurring, recalling the time before World War II when the U.S. and its neighbors in the hemisphere were the world's main source of oil,'' said Daniel Yergin, an American oil historian. ''To some degree, we're going to see a new rebalancing, with the Western Hemisphere moving back to self-sufficiency.''
The hemisphere's oil boom is all the more remarkable given that two of its traditional energy powerhouses, Venezuela and Mexico, have largely been left out, held in check by entrenched resource nationalism. Venezuela is now considered to have bigger oil reserves than Saudi Arabia, putting it at the top of OPEC's rankings. If it opened up more to foreign investment, it could tip the scales further in the hemisphere's direction.
Exactly how the Americas' growing oil clout might rebalance energy geopolitics remains an open question. The Middle East can still influence oil prices greatly, its oil fields are generally cheaper to develop, and some countries in the region are endowed with great reserves.
Moreover, the Americas still vie for investment with other oil-rich regions, like Russia's portion of the Arctic Ocean and West African waters. Security concerns like the abduction of oil workers could, as they have in the past, prevent Colombia from continuing to raise output. And environmental and financing questions pose persistent challenges to the rapid growth of the hemisphere's oil production.
Still, the new oil exploits in the Americas suggest that technology may be trumping geology, especially in the region's two largest economies, the United States and Brazil. The rock formations in Texas and North Dakota were thought to be largely fruitless propositions before contentious exploration methods involving horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing -- the blasting of water, chemicals and sand through rock to free oil inside, known as fracking -- gained momentum.
While the contamination of water supplies by fracking is a matter of fierce environmental debate, the technology is already reversing long-declining oil production in the United States, with overall output from locations where oil is contained in shale and other rocks projected to exceed two million barrels a day by 2020, according to some estimates. The United States already produces about half of its own oil needs, so the increase could help it further peel away dependence on foreign oil.
The challenges of tapping Brazil's new offshore fields, located beneath 6,000 feet of water and salt beds formed by the evaporation of ancient oceans, are even greater. Petrobras, which has ambitions of surpassing ExxonMobil as the world's largest publicly traded oil company, is investing more than $200 billion to meet its goals.
''Brazil will become an oil power by the end of the decade, with production in line with that of Iran,'' said Pedro Cordeiro, an energy consultant here for Bain & Company, who sees the country's oil production climbing to 5.5 million barrels a day by 2020.
Construction backlogs could slow Brazil's offshore expansion. But resurgent industries related to the oil boom, like shipbuilding, and strategic efforts like nuclear submarine construction to defend oil wells, underscore Brazil's plan of using its energy resources to project global power from this hemisphere.
''No other place on the planet is seeing this kind of investment,'' said Marcio Mello, a former Petrobras geologist who is now the chief executive of HRT, a new oil company based here. ''This decade is our chance to rise.''
Optimism is plentiful here, and even a bit of hubris can creep into conversation. Still, oil analysts say the hemisphere's new energy profile is already challenging the sway OPEC has long held.
Canada, for instance, is already the top petroleum exporter to the United States, followed by Mexico. Beyond that, output from Canada's oil sands may almost double to three million barrels a day by 2020, and there is an effort under way to build a pipeline to the Gulf Coast, stirring an environmental debate.
Investors from other regions, notably Chinese oil companies, are also wading into the hemisphere's oil plays, whether in Brazil's ''pre salt'' fields or the tight oil areas in the United States. They are looking to secure new oil supplies or gain expertise that would help them explore similar rock formations within their own borders.
The United States and Brazil do not see eye to eye on every issue -- the Obama administration is still hesitant about endorsing the country's ambition for a permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council -- but the hemisphere's two largest economies are strengthening energy ties, further cementing an already expansive economic relationship.
As the United States has cut OPEC imports by more than a million barrels a day since 2007, Brazil and Colombia have emerged as leading suppliers to the American market, surpassing Kuwait.
President Obama visited Brazil in March, refusing to delay the trip even as war was raging in Libya, emphasizing while here that he wanted the United States to be a ''major customer'' for Brazil's oil once production climbed at new fields.
American officials came again for talks in August, focusing on offshore exploration and biofuels cooperation. The United States is close to overtaking Brazil as the world's largest ethanol exporter, a significant turn, and American producers may actually increase their corn ethanol exports to Brazil. The shift stems from factors including weak harvests of sugar, which is used in Brazil to produce ethanol, and rising costs for land and labor.
The hemisphere's capacity to meet demand for fuels from sources of new importance, whether agriculture or shale formations, is arguably what makes it competitive with countries like Iraq and Libya, which have abundant conventional reserves but face hurdles getting the oil out of the ground.
''Middle East turmoil is almost always bad for oil production,'' said Amy Myers Jaffe, associate director of Rice University's Energy Program. ''This should make the world's megasuppliers nervous, since the pendulum has already begun to move in this direction.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Employees finished a production platform that would service Brazil's new offshore fields, located beneath 6,000 feet of water. (A1)
The semipublic energy corporation Petrobras is investing more than $200 billion to help make Brazil a major oil player. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SERGIO MORAES/REUTERS)
 Technology has made Canada's oil sands easier to tap in recent years, creating foreign interest as well as a demand for workers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIMMY JEONG/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (94%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL EXPLORATION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); OIL SANDS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); HISTORY (71%); WORLD WAR II (51%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (92%) ARCTIC OCEAN (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) BRAZIL (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); COLOMBIA (93%); CANADA (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ALGERIA (92%); ARGENTINA (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (89%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); ARCTIC (77%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



845 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: 4 Insurers Will Supply Health Data

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON

 BODY:
Several major health insurers have agreed to provide their claims data on a regular basis to academic researchers, in an unusual agreement that they say will open a window onto the rising costs of health care.
Aetna, Humana, Kaiser Permanente and the UnitedHealth Group plan to supply information on more than five billion medical claims, representing more than $1 trillion in spending, to a newly created nonprofit group, the Health Care Cost Institute.
About $2.6 trillion is spent each year in the United States on health care, an amount that is expected to increase by about 80 percent in the next decade. 
While Medicare has made its data available to researchers, with certain confidentiality restrictions like prohibiting identification of individual doctors, information from private insurers has been largely piecemeal.
''Our perspective is that the nation needs greater transparency about what is driving health care costs,'' said Simon Stevens, an executive vice president for the UnitedHealth Group.
The insurers say they will not have access to the aggregated pool of private data and the data will not be accessible to the public. The new institute will provide claims information to qualified researchers seeking to analyze the data, and it will make public twice-a-year summaries that identify changes in health care prices and use of medical services. These summaries might examine specific areas like maternity care or orthopedic claims, according to Martin Gaynor, a health economist at Carnegie Mellon University who will be chairman of the new institute's governing board.
Highlighting certain trends could also serve to put pressure on individual fields where prices seem abnormally high, or expose areas where demands for services have not been met. The insurers are providing start-up financing for the group.
''This is the first time that the claims data paid by carriers will be available to produce public reports and for researchers to be able to use the data,'' said Roy Goldman, a vice president and chief actuary for Humana.
The claims data, which will not include any identifying information about patients and will not specify the doctor or hospital providing care, represents health care spending since 2000 and will be updated at least twice a year, according to the institute. The claims will not be made available for commercial use, partly because officials want to prevent their use by any insurer negotiating with hospitals and doctors.
Still, researchers say the new information will allow them to get a better sense of how the nation's health system operates. ''It's the same doctors, it's the same hospitals, but we only have the half the information,'' said Katherine Baicker, a health economist at the Harvard School of Public Health, who is not involved in the project.
The data could provide answers about the differing cost of hip replacements, or how commercial prices affect insurance premiums. The claims data will include the price, volume and intensity of care being delivered to people with private coverage from one of the four insurers. Medicare data will be used to compare cost information with private health plans.
The lack of private market data has been ''a source of frustration for researchers,'' said Mr. Gaynor, who noted that Medicare represented only a third of people with insurance and offered little information about the care being delivered to people under age 65 who were not covered by the program. He says he hopes to persuade additional insurers to contribute their information to offer an even more complete view of the private market.
One of the critical differences between Medicare and private health plans is the variation in price that the commercial insurers pay to different hospitals and doctors for the same medical services. While Medicare generally pays a fixed price, with some adjustments for where a hospital or doctor is located and the like, private insurers may pay very different rates, depending on the characteristics of the individual market and hospital or doctor. ''There's huge variation across geographic markets,'' said Mark Duggan, an economist at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. ''It does not line up with Medicare.''
Researchers are also hoping that the institute analyzes the data relatively quickly. Some note that the release of Medicare data is often a year or more behind an emerging trend.
For example, looming Medicare cuts are expected to have an effect on the prices being paid by commercial insurers, an uptick in costs that would most likely be detected early on by the institute if the data were being monitored in real time.
While the data does not allow researchers the ability to focus in on a single hospital system or physician, it should enable them to draw important comparisons between different types of programs and between care provided under Medicare or commercial insurers, said Alan Garber, a health economist at Harvard who is also a member of the institute's board. ''You can't answer every question well, but this is a great start,'' he said.
Researchers say the data should help them to begin to answer fundamental questions about why health care is so expensive and to help determine whether the main culprits are higher prices, high use of services or some combination of factors. ''At the end of the day,'' said Jonathan Gruber, a health economist at M.I.T. who is also a board member, health care ''is the biggest and fastest-growing sector of the economy. We can't know too much.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A patient receives knee replacement surgery. New data could provide answers about the differing costs of these surgeries. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); MEDICAL RECORDS (78%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (78%); MEDICAL INSURANCE CLAIMS (78%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (78%); TRENDS (77%); ORTHOPEDICS (74%); MEDICARE (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (70%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (65%); STARTUPS (50%)

COMPANY: KAISER PERMANENTE (91%); UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: UNH (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (91%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



846 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: Worry About a Wave of Layoffs

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
Not again. That is the plea of many Americans fearful about their jobs as the economy falters.
''I don't have any more savings or anything like that,'' said Terrance Myricks, 21, who was dismissed for the second time in less than three years on Sept. 1. ''I'll probably have to rely on unemployment, which I'd really rather not do. And that's assuming I can even get it.''
Job growth halted entirely in the nation last month. And as Europe's debt crisis acts as a drag on global growth and Washington debates another jobs bill, the possibility of a second recession is increasing in the United States along with the prospects of corresponding layoffs. Mr. Myricks's tale of pain the second time around, economists fear, could become all too familiar.
With headlines like the 30,000 layoffs planned at Bank of America and the United States Postal Service asking Congress to cut 120,000 workers, it is perhaps not surprising that workers' concerns about job security are near the peak they reached during the last recession, according to a recent Gallup survey. At least one anecdotal study found that layoff announcements were greater in August than a year earlier. 
The last workers in the door are often the first out the door. That could make the Americans who have already depleted their support networks and unemployment benefits most vulnerable to layoffs.
''Employers are likely to target the employees who are more junior, as they usually do,'' said Daniel S. Hamermesh, an economics professor at the University of Texas, Austin. ''If you've already exhausted your benefits for that benefit year -- and Congress has said they want to shorten the duration of benefits -- you're up the creek. That's one of the most severe worries about all this.''
Right before Labor Day, Mr. Myricks, of La Palma, Calif., near Los Angeles, lost his position as a factory machine operator, a job hard-won after a long spell without work.
That painful loss was an echo of July 2009, when a supermarket eliminated his position as an assistant manager. Mr. Myricks joined the 28 percent of teenage men in the work force -- 39.7 percent of black teenage men -- who were idle and looking for a job then. He spent over a year looking for work, and moved into a cheaper home with his wife, Briana, 20, to help make ends meet. After a few months delivering pizzas part time for Pizza Hut, he finally secured a full-time job in April 2010 at a box factory where his brother is an assistant manager.
''It is a very, very dangerous job,'' Mr. Myricks said of his work at Georgia-Pacific. ''There are operators in my plant who are missing fingers, or missing legs. They're still working there, though.'' (James Malone, a spokesman for Georgia-Pacific, said that the plant adhered to all federal and state safety regulations.)
Still, the young worker felt lucky to find a job that paid $14.34 an hour (plus benefits), enough to pay the bills and help support his father, who is battling leukemia.
One reason he took the job was that so little else was available in California and across the country. There are still more than four workers for every job opening, according to United States Department of Labor data, and in some areas the competition is even stiffer.
''It used to be that you'd be compared against a few resumes, but now you're competing with a thousand applicants for that one job,'' said Teresa Cannady, 53, of Fountain Inn, S.C. She lost her job as an office manager for an Allstate insurance agency in May 2009, and spent 15 months looking for work. Then in September 2010, when the economy seemed to be turning, her old boss asked her to come back -- only to lay her off again on Sept. 9.
During Mr. Myricks's first month at Georgia-Pacific, he worked 12 hours a day, seven days a week. Then he pulled back to five- and six-day weeks. The work, he said, was not only dangerous, but exhausting: he spent his days lifting 50- to 100-pound wooden slabs with razors that cut shapes into cardboard, as well as giant printing plates used to stamp the cardboard.
An old back injury flared up, and he developed sharp pains in his shoulder and ankles. He began looking for other work but was unsuccessful. Over the summer his doctor told him to cut back on his hours. Soon after, the company gave him no choice. When customer orders started to drop off, Georgia-Pacific began announcing furlough days in August.
Other companies appear to be cutting back as well. The average workweek has not recovered to the level before the last recession, and in the last four months it has either been flat or fallen. The decline, which suggests employers do not have enough work for their existing employees, has led economists to worry that broader layoffs may be next.
At Mr. Myricks's factory, 26 employees out of 187 were let go at the beginning of the month, according to Mr. Malone, the Georgia-Pacific spokesman. Under the union agreement, the layoffs were aimed at workers with the least seniority -- including Mr. Myricks.
Such practices are common even in companies that are not unionized, economists say.
''If you've invested 10 years in a worker, you're going to be reluctant to lay him off,'' said Robert Shimer, an economics professor at the University of Chicago. ''But if there's a new guy who hasn't been there that long, and you haven't had as much time to invest in him, it's less costly to let him go.''
Though he was told that he would be recalled in about five weeks, Mr. Myricks is doubtful.
''My father worked in this business for 42 years,'' he said. ''He used to get told he'd be laid off for a few weeks and then he'd be off for half a year.''
Because he has been earning wages for the last year, Mr. Myricks is receiving unemployment benefits nearly equal to his pay at Georgia-Pacific. The money could be a lifeline for the young couple, because his wife, lost her job as a social media coordinator in January. Their only other income comes from the freelance blog posts she writes for personal finance sites, at $20 a post. ''It's really competitive,'' she said. ''Some of these sites can find somebody in the Philippines who may be willing to work for a third of what I may be asking for.''
The road ahead for both of them could be steep. Many employers prefer -- or even require -- job applicants to already be employed. A second bout of unemployment could be a bigger stigma.
''Everyone knows that in a bad recession like this there's a lot of unemployment,'' said Harry J. Holzer, an economist at Georgetown University and the Urban Institute. ''You'd think employers would take that into consideration, but they don't always.''
The Myricks want to get bachelor's degrees to help give them better job opportunities. But the poor health of Mr. Myricks's father and Ms. Myricks's mother's heart problems led them to interrupt their schooling to help support their parents. Now that Mr. Myricks's father is on the mend, they were hoping to return to college in the coming year.
''I haven't talked to her specifically about that yet,'' said Mr. Myricks about whether they can afford to return to college.
For now he is trying to appreciate having a break -- even if it's mostly unpaid -- from a year and a half of strenuous labor. He says he has been spending his newfound free time hunting for a job, visiting with family and doing work around the house.
''I even got a chance to play some video games,'' he said. ''I hadn't done that in a really long time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Terrance and Briana Myricks. He was laid off Sept. 1 for the second time in three years and she was laid off in January. (B1)
 The Myricks and their dog Frankie. Mr. Myricks collects unemployment and Ms. Myricks works as a freelance blogger. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (74%); US LABOR DAY (73%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); EURO CRISIS (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); ADOLESCENTS (68%); PAPER CONTAINER MFG (66%); POSTAL SERVICE (53%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); GEORGIA-PACIFIC LLC (50%); PIZZA HUT INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (56%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (50%); NAICS321219 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (50%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (50%); SIC2493 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCTS (50%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



847 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1343 words

HEADLINE: Greece Nears The Precipice, Raising Fear

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
Slower economic growth throughout Europe, and probably in the United States. Huge losses by major European banks. Declining stock markets worldwide. A tightening of credit, making it harder for many borrowers to get loans.
As concerns grow that Greece may default on its government debt, economists are starting to map out possible outcomes. While no one knows for certain what will happen, it's a given that financial crises always have unexpected consequences, and many predict there will be collateral damage.
Because of these fears, Greece is working frantically in concert with other European nations to avoid default, by embracing further austerity measures it has promised in return for more European bailout money to help pay its debts.
But some economists believe default may be inevitable -- and that it may actually be better for Greece and, despite a short-term shock to the system, perhaps eventually for Europe as well. They are beginning to wonder whether the consequences of a default or a more radical debt restructuring, dire as they may be, would be no worse for Greece than the miserable path it is currently on. 
A default would relieve Greece of paying off a mountain of debt that it cannot afford, no matter how much it continues to cut government spending, which already has caused its economy to shrink.
At the same time, however, there is a fear of the unknown beyond Greece's borders. Merrill Lynch estimates that the shock to growth in Europe, while not as severe as in the aftermath of the financial crisis of 2008, would be troubling, with overall output contracting by 1.3 percent in 2012.
While other countries have defaulted on their sovereign debt in recent times without causing systemic contagion, analysts weighing the numbers on Greece note that its debt is far higher, so the ripple effects could be more serious.
Total Greek public debt is about 370 billion euros, or $500 billion. By comparison, Argentina's debt was $82 billion when it defaulted in 2001; when Russia defaulted, in 1998, its debt was $79 billion.
Economists also warn that a Greek default could put further pressure on Italy, the euro zone's third-largest economy, which, though solvent, is struggling to enact austerity measures and find a way to stimulate growth. Moreover, Italy's government debt is five times the size of Greece's, and concerns about Italy's ability to meet its obligations could grow if Greece defaults.
In a new sign of trouble for the country, Standard & Poor's on Monday cut Italy's credit rating by one notch to A, citing its weakening economy and limited political response.
''Orderly or not, we have no idea what the effect of a default would be on other countries, especially Italy,'' said Peter Bofinger, an economist who advises the German Finance Ministry. ''If there is just a 5 percent chance that this affects Italy, then you don't want to do it.''
In part, what would happen in the wake of a Greek default would depend on whether European leaders could create a firewall to control the damage from spreading widely. That would require officials to come together in ways they so far have not been able to, because it is politically unpopular in some countries to spend many billions more bailing out Greece.
In particular, work on transforming Europe's main financial rescue vehicle, the 440 billion euro European Financial Stability Facility, would have to be fast tracked so that it would be in a position to buy European bonds and, crucially, provide emergency loans to countries that need to inject money into capital starved banks. Differences over the best way to go forward so far have delayed approval of the expanded fund.
Bailing out the banks will be crucial if Greece either defaults or imposes a hard restructuring, whereby banks would be forced to take a larger loss on their holdings compared with the fairly benign 21 percent losses that they are now being asked to accept as part of the second, 109 billion euro bailout package set for Greece in June.
Merrill Lynch, in a recent report on the contagion effect of a worst-case situation in which a severe Greek debt restructuring results in other weak European countries having to take a hit on their bonds, estimated that overall European bank losses could be as high as $543 billion. French and German banks would be the hardest hit, because they are among the biggest holders of Greek debt.
''We believe losses could be substantially larger through deleveraging and second-round effects, contagion from failure of individual banks from or outside the periphery, exposures of the nonbank financial sector,'' the Merrill Lynch report concluded.
While a 60 to 70 percent debt write-down seems extreme, it actually represents the market expectation, with most Greek debt now trading below 40 cents on the dollar.
A Greek default also would be costly to the European Central Bank, the Continent's equivalent of the Federal Reserve. To help prop up Greece, the central bank is believed to have bought about 40 billion euros in Greek bonds at much higher prices than where they now trade. If the central bank were forced to take a major loss on its Greek bonds, it too would need a capital infusion. And the burden would most likely fall on Germany.
Analysts also say the seriousness of the crisis will depend on whether Greece stays within the euro common-currency zone or is forced to leave it, and return to the drachma as its national currency.
Willem Buiter, the chief economist at Citigroup, presents two possible default outcomes. In the first, Greece forces private sector creditors to take a loss on their bonds of 60 to 80 percent but manages to stay inside the euro zone by keeping current on the smaller amount that it owes its official lenders, like the European Union and the I.M.F.
While technically a default, the loss would not be an outright repudiation of Greece's debt and the contagion could, in theory, be contained.
One big unknown revolves around the fact that, unlike other countries that have defaulted on their debts in the past, Greece does not have its own currency.
The potentially more dangerous default outcome is if Greece decides to leave or is forced to leave the euro, according to Mr. Buiter. Then, Mr. Buiter believes, the debt write-off would approach 100 percent and the effects on international markets could be much more serious.
Offsetting this, to some extent, is the fact that exiting the euro zone and re-adopting the drachma would enable Greece to devalue its currency versus the rest of Europe, and help it become more competitive, perhaps spurring economic growth.
For the moment, Greek officials are adamant that neither a default nor a euro exit and devaluation is in the cards. One senior policy maker in Greece's Finance Ministry, who declined to be identified because of the delicacy of the matter, even offered to send his questioner a case of 2005 Dom Perignon Champagne if Greece ever repudiated its debt.
But close followers of Greece's budget dynamics point to the fact that, despite the country's deficit woes, by next year Greece is likely to have achieved a primary budget surplus, meaning that after taking out the high levels of interest it pays on its debt, it will be running a surplus.
History shows that a country tends only to take such a drastic step as cutting ties with its international lenders when it has tightened its belt enough to achieve a budget surplus, and it is only payments to its bankers that is keeping it in the red.
Such was the case in most of the recent country defaults, including Argentina, Ecuador, Indonesia and Jamaica, economists at the I.M.F. found in a paper published last year that addressed when a country finds its interest is served by default.
''My view is that it is very much in Greece's interest to default now, as there is no prospect that it can repay its debt,'' said Desmond Lachman, a former I.M.F. economist at the American Enterprise Institute. ''If it is inevitable that an insolvent Greece is going to have to restructure, it would be better for Greece to do it now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Evangelos Venizelos, Greece's finance minister, at a conference in Vouliagmeni. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARIS MESSINIS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B6) GRAPHIC: Greece on the Edge: Greece is on the precipice of default, and its European neighbors are debating whether to let Greece fall off the economic cliff.
 CHARTS: Path to Trouble: Greece's government debt and budget deficit grew markedly in the last few years, leading up to its current debt crisis. (Source: Eurostat) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (89%); EURO CRISIS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (77%); CREDIT BUREAUS (77%); MONETARY UNIONS (74%); EURO (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: STATISTICAL OFFICE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREECE (95%); EUROPE (95%); ITALY (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



848 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: Higher Taxes And Less Pay, By Choice

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
How would you feel about taking a pay cut and paying more in taxes?
Meet Ted Weschler. He just did both. And he's happy about it.
You might have heard about Mr. Weschler. He was hired by Warren E. Buffett last week to help invest Berkshire Hathaway's piles of cash.
Mr. Weschler, a successful but little-known 50-year-old hedge fund manager, plied his trade from a small office in Charlottesville, Va., above an independent bookstore, reaping huge returns for his investors, some 1,236 percent over a decade. In the process, his $2 billion fund put him comfortably in the millionaires' club, and at the rate he was going, he was on his way to the more exclusive cadre of billionaires. 
Here is a quick measure of his wealth: he paid $2,626,311 in a charity auction to have lunch with Mr. Buffett in 2010. That's how they met. A year later, Mr. Weschler paid $2,626,411 to dine with him again.
In his new job at Berkshire, he is expected to be paid significantly less than he was making. (We'll get to the formula for his compensation in a moment.) And he is going to be giving up a huge tax break. Instead of paying the 15 percent capital gains rate on most of his income like most hedge fund managers and private equity executives, he is going to be taxed at the 35 percent ordinary income level as an employee.
His decision - and his compensation structure - are worth considering as the country weighs President Obama's proposal to increase taxes for the ultra wealthy in what has been called the ''Buffett Rule.''
The plan is aimed at ensuring that millionaires pay the same effective rate as middle-income families. In part, it takes aim at the controversial ''carried interest'' income, or the profits that hedge fund managers and other big investors take home as part of their pay. That compensation is now taxed at the capital gains rate of 15 percent, far below the 35 percent top rate on ordinary income. Mr. Obama hopes to close that loophole.
Many Republicans have derided the Buffett Rule, saying it would hurt the economy. ''If you tax job creators more, you get less job creation,'' Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, argued on ''Fox News Sunday. ''If you tax investment more, you get less investment.''
Perhaps Mr. Ryan should dine with Mr. Weschler. The view that ''millionaires and billionaires'' will stop, or slow down, working or investing may be a myth.
''When you have enough money to live the lifestyle you want,'' Mr. Weschler told me in a brief conversation, money and taxes are less of a consideration than ''who you want to work with.''
Mr. Weschler - and his colleague Todd Combs, another successful hedge fund manager who joined Mr. Buffett last year - demonstrate that people of great wealth don't necessarily make all decisions based on their own financial bottom line.
''Neither would have voluntarily paid more than 15 percent when working at their hedge fund simply because of the feeling that they were a favored class,'' Mr. Buffett said. ''But neither will feel the least bit abused because the earnings from their daily labors will now be taxed at a higher rate.''
Like Mr. Buffett, Mr. Weschler says he doesn't believe the tax loopholes for hedge fund managers make sense. ''When my accountant first told me about it,'' he said he responded ''You can't be serious.'' But he added quickly, ''I'm not complaining.''
That's not to say he will be paid like a pauper at Berkshire. Mr. Weschler and Mr. Combs will earn seven figures, and potentially more. But they won't make John Paulson money. He reportedly made $5 billion last year.
Unlike hedge fund managers, at Berkshire Mr. Weschler and Mr. Combs don't take home the standard ''2 and 20,'' collecting a 2 percent management fee and 20 percent of all the profits. Instead, Mr. Buffett has tightly linked their pay to the performance of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, a system that some big institutional investors should be pressing hedge funds to adopt.
''Both Todd and Ted will have performance pay based on 10 percent of the excess return over the S.&P., averaged over multiple years,'' Mr. Buffett told me. ''If the S.&P. averages 5 percent annually in the future, this means that the average hedge fund manager has received a 1 percent performance fee - 20 percent of 5 percent - before Todd and Ted receive anything.''
''Nevertheless, I expect them to make a lot of money,'' he added. ''The difference is that they have to earn it by true investment performance.''
In addition, both men receive modest salaries that Mr. Buffett said ''will work out to about a tenth of 1 percent'' of the assets they manage. ''This compares to the 2 percent nonperformance fee which most hedge fund managers charge, even if they are losing money.''
Mr. Buffett's critics complain that while he supports higher taxes on the wealthy, Berkshire is structured to pay little in taxes and he has sidestepped Uncle Sam by giving away his wealth.
Some have even suggested that he mail the Treasury a check if he wants higher taxes. The Senate minority leader, Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky half-jokingly said on NBC News program ''Meet the Press,'' ''if Warren Buffett would like to give up some of his benefits, we'd be happy to talk about it.''
But Mr. Buffett shrugs off the naysayers. ''When I ran my partnership in the 1950s-1960s, I was generally taxed at 25 percent, considerably below the rate on similar amounts of ordinary income,'' he said. ''I knew I was getting favored treatment compared to the local doctor, lawyer or C.E.O., but I made no voluntary payments to the Treasury, nor does any hedge fund manager of whom I'm aware.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ted Weschler shows that the rich do not necessarily make all decisions based on the financial bottom line for themselves. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT EICH/LUCEO, FOR THE WALL STREET JOURNAL) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX INCREASES (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); CHARITIES (71%); FAMILY (67%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (65%); US PRESIDENTS (64%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (62%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (58%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (58%); BRK.A (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (62%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (62%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (58%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (79%); PAUL RYAN (76%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



849 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Our Hidden Government Benefits

BYLINE: By SUZANNE METTLER. 
Suzanne Mettler, a professor of government at Cornell, is the author of ''The Submerged State: How Invisible Government Policies Undermine American Democracy.''

 BODY:
Ithaca, N.Y.
DON'T take at face value the claims that Americans dislike government. Sure, a recent ABC News/Washington Post poll found that 56 percent of Americans said they wanted smaller government and fewer services. Tea Party activists, the most vocal citizens of our time, powerfully amplify those demands. Yet the reality is that the vast majority of Americans have at some point relied on government programs -- and valued them -- even though they often fail to recognize that government is the source of the assistance.
A 2008 poll of 1,400 Americans by the Cornell Survey Research Institute found that when people were asked whether they had ''ever used a government social program,'' 57 percent said they had not. Respondents were then asked whether they had availed themselves of any of 21 different federal policies, including Social Security, unemployment insurance, the home-mortgage-interest deduction and student loans. It turned out that 94 percent of those who had denied using programs had benefited from at least one; the average respondent had used four. 
Americans often fail to recognize government's role in society, even if they have experienced it in their own lives. That is because so much of what government does today is largely invisible.
Individuals' political views partly account for their perceptions. In the Cornell poll, a respondent who self-identified as ''extremely liberal'' was 20 percentage points more likely to acknowledge using a government program than someone who used the same number of programs but was ''extremely conservative.'' Also, those who believed that the nation spent too much on welfare were less likely to admit that they had used a ''government social program,'' perhaps because that term had pejorative connotations.
Besides political ideology, the design of policies also influences awareness. The most visible policies are those that require people to interact frequently or intensively with public officials to qualify for benefits, like food stamps, disability payments and subsidized housing. Another set of programs, including Medicare, Pell Grants and Social Security retirement benefits, are also fairly visible, though each contains characteristics that can camouflage government's role.
The man at the town hall meeting in the summer of 2009 who angrily told his congressman, ''Keep your government hands off my Medicare,'' might have been in less of a state of denial than many believed: last year, one in four Medicare beneficiaries got their benefits through a private insurance company.
In the case of Social Security, checks are sent directly by the government, making it clear why 56 percent of beneficiaries in the Cornell poll acknowledged the use of a social program. But the denial by the remaining 44 percent is also understandable, given that individuals contributed directly from their paychecks to help finance the program. President Franklin D. Roosevelt insisted on this arrangement, knowing the benefits would be understood as an earned right. That way, he said, ''no damn politician can ever scrap my social security program.''
The final group of policies, what I call the ''submerged state,'' is largely invisible because its benefits are channeled through the tax code and subsidies to private organizations. These include the home-mortgage-interest deduction and the exemption from taxes on employer-provided health and retirement benefits. Using ''submerged'' benefits is nearly as common as using more visible policies.
Even personal encounters with the submerged state fail to make most people recognize that they have benefited from government. The greater the number of visible policies an individual had used, the more likely he or she was to agree that ''government programs have helped me in times of need,'' but greater use of policies of the submerged state had no comparable impact.
Likewise, the greater the number of visible policies used, the higher the rate of agreement that ''government has provided me opportunities to improve my standard of living''; by contrast, those who had used more submerged policies were more likely to disagree. The hidden policies left beneficiaries with the false impression that their economic security was owed merely to their own efforts.
The submerged state obscures the role of government and exaggerates that of the market. It leaves citizens unaware of the source of programs and unable to form meaningful opinions about them.
Until political leaders reveal government benefits for what they are by talking openly about them, we cannot have an honest discussion about spending, taxes or deficits. The stipulation in the new health care reform law that W-2 forms must indicate the value of untaxed employer-provided health care benefits is a step in the right direction. The government should also provide ''receipts'' that inform people of the size of each benefit they get through the tax code.
The threat to democracy today is not the size of government but rather the hidden form that so much of its growth has taken. If those who assume government has never helped them could see how it has, it might help defuse our polarized political climate and reinvigorate informed citizenship.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SCOTT MENCHIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); MEDICARE (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (72%); PUBLIC HOUSING (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



850 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: A Call for Fairness: The president challenges Congress to balance cuts with taxes on those who can afford more

 BODY:
This time, President Obama did not compromise with himself beforehand, or put out a half measure in hopes of luring nonexistent Republican support. This time, he issued an unabashed call for economic fairness in cutting the federal deficit, asking as much from those on the economy's upper rungs as from those lower down whose programs may be trimmed.
And this time, standing in the Rose Garden on Monday, he seemed to speak directly to a public that has been parched for farsighted leadership in Washington. The one troubling note of the day was Mr. Obama's failure to provide enough specifics on some of his proposals, and his aides' inexplicable continued faith in the idea of Congress working out a sensible middle ground on taxes. 
But the president's plan to cut $3.6 trillion from the deficit over the next 10 years is a well-proportioned mix. It proposes about 60 percent spending cuts (including winding down two wars that his predecessor started fighting off the books with the eager support of the supposedly fiscally responsible Republicans in Congress) and 40 percent tax increases on the wealthy and corporations.
It pays for the desperately needed jobs plan he sent to Congress last week without more mindless hacking at government programs, and would be a much better alternative to the $1.2 trillion in across-the-board spending cuts that loom if Congress does not pass a debt plan this year.
Republicans will, of course, mount obdurate opposition in Congress, since they have no intention of allowing the government to ask anything from the wealthy and corporations. Even before the plan was announced, the party's leaders had rolled out their rusted artillery, calling an increase in taxes on high earners ''class warfare'' and insisting that it would fatally wound ''job creators.'' (In fact, less than 2 percent of the nation's small businesses would be affected by the tax increases.)
For once the president did not let that predictable line of argument stop him, and even had a good rejoinder: ''This is not class warfare. It's math. The money is going to have to come from someplace.'' It could come from the middle class, from the elderly and the poor, by asking them to give up benefits from programs like Medicare, Medicaid and food stamps -- as many Republicans are advocating. It could come by pulling money from road building, schools, food inspection and other vital government services.
Those are unacceptable choices, he said, particularly if the rich give up nothing, and he made it clear he would veto any plan that cut Medicare but did not raise revenue from the rich. He called for Congress to rewrite the tax code to ensure that the rich pay the same effective tax rate on their income as the middle class. (He referred to Warren Buffett, who famously said on our Op-Ed page that his secretary pays a higher rate than he does.) It's time Washington fought as hard for the middle class, he said, as lobbyists fight for billionaires and corporations.
That's the kind of language Mr. Obama needs for the campaign trail next year, to draw a strong comparison with Republicans who may well start to be seen as fighting for the interests of a small moneyed elite.
But the president would have done better to tell Congress precisely how the Buffett Rule should work, instead of laying out broad principles and hoping a divided and leaderless group of lawmakers would figure it out themselves. As he did during the debt ceiling fight, he called for the expiration of the Bush tax cuts for families making more than $250,000 (which would bring in $866 billion over a decade) and limiting the same group's itemized deductions (saving $410 billion). But as Mr. Buffett has pointed out, most millionaires benefit from an extremely generous 15 percent tax rate on investment income. Mr. Obama should have explicitly called for an increase in that rate.
White House aides have said the president is open to other methods of equalizing the burden, including changing the alternative minimum tax -- which now affects many middle-class taxpayers -- to apply specifically to millionaire-level income, and at a much higher rate.
Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner said the administration did not want to give Congress a detailed road map of tax reform, but that will leave the field to special-interest lobbying, partisan fear-mongering and dithering. Raising capital-gains taxes is the most reliable way to make sure the richest Americans don't avoid taxes.
On the spending side, the president's plan takes a sensible approach toward saving money in Medicare and Medicaid. More than 90 percent of the $248 billion in Medicare cuts over 10 years would come from reducing payments to drug companies and health care providers that are unnecessarily high. The effect on the elderly would be limited, with higher premiums for high-income beneficiaries starting in 2017, and increased deductibles for new beneficiaries. Mr. Obama proposed a modest cut of $66 billion in Medicaid over a decade, well below the Republicans' proposed $770 billion cut.
Mr. Obama also asked military retirees to pay increased contributions for health benefits, bringing that expensive system more in line with private-sector plans.
After nearly three years of destructive compromise and concession on the budget, this plan was far too late in coming. But the public is listening now, and has demanded shared sacrifice. The burden is now on Mr. Obama to sell his plan, and on Congress to buy it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MEDICARE (89%); TAX LAW (89%); VETO (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (60%); FOOD INSPECTION (60%); MEDICAID (56%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



851 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Deer Hunts and Dirt Bikes

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

 BODY:
Paul Ryan may not be running for president this time around, but if you have any doubt about his ambitions for a long, prominent future in government, just look at his comments in a Q. and A. published in Sunday's Times. They're a minor masterpiece of image calibration.
In the span of two dozen sentences, Ryan, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, mentioned the Bible, or rather a beginner's version of it, which he said he was reading aloud to his 6-year-old son. He mentioned his truck and his appetite for hard rock, thus establishing automotive and musical affinities that balance his wonkier, number-crunching bona fides. He mentioned hunting -- with a bow, no less. 
Then came the capper. He mentioned his talent for what I'd like to call venison charcuterie, just because he so clearly wouldn't. ''I butcher my own deer, grind the meat, stuff it in casings and then smoke it,'' he said, making clear that Sarah Palin in all her moose-eviscerating glory has nothing on him.
And thus his self-portrait as an outside-the-Beltway guy's guy with grime (and maybe guts) under his fingernails was complete, and he had discharged one of the more ridiculous obligations of the contemporary politician. He had asserted that he was just like the rest of us, even though there's no such thing as one uniform us and if there were, it would be buying its Bambi sausages in bulk at Costco.
Will American politics ever get away from this crazy contest in which the players strive to out-ordinary one another, distancing themselves from any whiff of privilege and trying to project a woodsy, folksy, flannel essence?
The relationship between lifestyle and political priorities is at best oblique: you really can't judge how politicians will govern by whether they hunt or windsurf, frolic in the Texas brush or the Martha's Vineyard sand, favor corn dogs or arugula. And that was suggested by another, different glimpse of Ryan on Sunday. He appeared on Fox News to defend millionaires and decry President Obama's proposed tax increase on them as ''class warfare.''
Still, candidates labor mightily to come down on the fried and unfussy end of things, lest they seem out of touch and be deemed unable to relate.
Remember that sequence of Jon Huntsman ads? The ones counting down the days to his presidential announcement? They showed a helmeted man zooming on a dirt bike through Monument Valley and introduced him as someone who ''rides motocross to relax'' and played in a rock band called Wizard. Not a word about Huntsman's considerable wealth, a legacy of the family business. Not a word about his ability to speak Mandarin.
Meanwhile supporters of Mitt Romney have found themselves in the awkward position of insisting that the expansion of his reportedly $12 million beach house in California -- not his primary residence -- isn't an extravagance, because the house has just two or three bedrooms, depending on how you count. Those must be some bedrooms.
Romney shuns neckties and hones a populist touch. He joked with voters in Florida that inasmuch as a presidential campaign is a surreally drawn-out job application, he, too, knew something about being unemployed. And he has taken to Twitter to inform the electorate that he had breakfast at Subway and flew Southwest Airlines.
While such atmospherics are almost compulsory, they're also sad. Romney's affluence largely reflects his business success, which is more asset than liability and needn't be played down. And his principal flaw isn't the thread count of his sheets. It's the high count of his ever changing positions over time.
His advantages in life don't mean he can't think about social welfare. It was Romney, remember, who in Massachusetts spearheaded the template for federal health-care reform.
For that matter, Obama's childhood disadvantages don't mean that the less fortunate will flourish under him. That certainly hasn't happened so far. The downturn has taken its greatest toll on the poor. And while the lion's share of blame for the dismal economy rests with circumstances he inherited, there's mounting evidence that he made mistakes early on in his administration and was in over his head.
Having a modest background, a knowledge of hardship or a kinship with the so-called common man doesn't correlate with competence. Or with compassion. Rick Perry could certainly use more of that, and he started life in a house without indoor plumbing.
Over the next 14 months, we shouldn't be impressed by someone who can imitate ordinary. We should figure out who promises to be extraordinary. And that determination should be guided less by what candidates eat or drive than by what they've done with the reins of power, whether holding them with chapped or manicured fingers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORT HUNTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); POP & ROCK (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); BUDGETS (71%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (70%); EXTREME SPORTS (60%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (60%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); TAX LAW (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (63%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (63%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); SARAH PALIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



852 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: No Extra Credit

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
What if everything that is happening in Washington right now is just meaningless noise?
What if the Obama jobs plan, the coming deliberations of the supercommittee, the debate over taxing millionaires -- what if none of it is likely to make a whit of positive difference for the economy? What if the only thing that matters is something Congress and the president rarely mention, and can do nothing about?
I've come to believe this is the case. What is killing the economy is lack of credit. In the aftermath of an asset bubble, invariably the result of too-loose credit, banks don't just tighten their standards; they practically shut down. 
This was true during the Great Depression, and it's been true during the Great Recession. And until normal credit standards return, economic growth will continue to be stunted. ''Overreaction to the credit bubble is now the knee on the throat of the economy,'' says my friend Lou Barnes, a mortgage banker at Premier Mortgage Group in Colorado.
Not long ago, Lou sent me a powerful new piece of evidence, a presentation put together by Paul Kasriel, chief economist for Northern Trust. Titled ''If Some Dare Call It Treason, Was Milton Friedman a Traitor?'' (the title will become clear shortly), it has the force of revelation.
The first part of the paper is spent ''dispelling the nonsense'' (Kasriel's words) that factors besides credit are the root of the problem. He persuasively mocks the idea that ''uncertainty'' is holding back companies from borrowing. (''Uncertainty,'' Kasriel told me, ''is the last refuge of economists who can't explain what is going on.'') Ditto for onerous taxes, record budget deficits and lack of demand.
He then documents ''a post-WW II record'' credit contraction, before moving on to a surprising solution: more quantitative easing from the Federal Reserve, which is essentially the buying of bonds from investors by the Fed, using money it prints, as Kasriel freely admits, ''out of thin air.''
That this solution is controversial is not lost on Kasriel; his title is an obvious play on Rick Perry's comment that continued quantitative easing by the Fed chairman, Ben Bernanke, would amount to borderline treason. But that's where his reference to Friedman comes in. Kasriel is absolutely convinced that if the great conservative economist were alive today, he would be leading the charge for quantitative easing. It's all we've got left.
In the 1930s, the Fed's tight money policy compounded the lack of credit and sent the country into the Depression. Decades later, Milton Friedman was the economist who most persuasively proved that point. Bernanke, a student of the Depression, took that lesson to heart; his willingness to flood the system with liquidity during the financial crisis prevented a repeat.
It is also what led Bernanke to try the first two rounds of quantitative easing. ''Banking under normal circumstances is a transmission mechanism from the Fed to the economy,'' Kasriel told me. ''That transmission mechanism is broken.'' Quantitative easing is not nearly as efficient at expanding credit as having the banks involved, but it does work. During the decade of stagnation in Japan, Kasriel points out, Friedman urged its central bank to expand the money supply and buy bonds -- exactly what Bernanke has been doing.
The main argument against the printing of money is that it raises the odds of inflation; even the esteemed Paul Volcker is worried about it, as he wrote in Monday's Times. But Kasriel is convinced that the bigger fear right now is deflation, and that the expansion of credit by the Fed should be seen in combination with the contraction by the banks. In that larger context, the Fed's move no longer looks inflationary. It looks instead like the only means we've got right now to create badly needed credit.
There is much resistance to another round of quantitative easing, not just from G.O.P. presidential hopefuls, but from many in the political establishment. Yet it's worth noting that the reason Volcker is esteemed today is because, 30 years ago, as Fed chairman, he stuck by a monetary policy -- a severe tightening, in his case -- that he believed in despite fierce denunciations. His willingness to chart an unpopular course led directly to the economic revival of the 1980s.
Today, Ben Bernanke is every bit as vilified as Volcker was back then. Yet the Fed remains politically independent, and like Volcker, he has the right to chart the course he believes best, without political interference. The course he has charted is quantitative easing. Kasriel is utterly convincing that this is the right course. Bernanke should make the Fed's independence matter.
In my Aug. 27 column, I credited the wrong technology company for the first commercial use of the mouse. It was Xerox, which added a mouse to its 8010 Star. Apple's Macintosh was the first commercially successful computer to use a mouse.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US CONGRESSIONAL SUPER COMMITTEE (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASON (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RECESSION (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); EVIDENCE (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%)

COMPANY: NORTHERN TRUST CORP (57%)

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); BEN BERNANKE (56%); RICK PERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



853 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: Obama Confirms New Hard Stand With Debt Relief

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES; Brian Knowlton contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With a scrappy unveiling of his formula to rein in the nation's mounting debt, President Obama confirmed Monday that he had entered a new, more combative phase of his presidency, one likely to last until next year's election as he battles for a second term.
Faced with falling poll numbers for his leadership and an anxious party base, Mr. Obama did not just propose but insisted that any long-term debt-reduction plan must not shave future Medicare benefits without also raising taxes on the wealthiest taxpayers and corporations.
He uncharacteristically backed up that stand with a veto threat, setting up a politically charged choice for anti-tax Republicans -- protect the most affluent or compromise to attack deficits. Confident in the answers most voters would make, Mr. Obama plans to hammer on that choice through 2012, reflecting the fact that the White House has all but given up hopes of a ''grand bargain'' with Republicans to restore fiscal balance for years to come. 
''I will not support -- I will not support -- any plan that puts all the burden for closing our deficit on ordinary Americans. And I will veto any bill that changes benefits for those who rely on Medicare but does not raise serious revenues by asking the wealthiest Americans or biggest corporations to pay their fair share,'' Mr. Obama said. ''We are not going to have a one-sided deal that hurts the folks who are most vulnerable.''
Mr. Obama also seems to have given up on his strategy of nearly a year, beginning when Republicans won control of the House last November, of being the eager-to-compromise ''reasonable adult'' -- in the White House's phrasing -- in his relations with them. He had sought to build a personal relationship with Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio, a man the White House saw as a possible partner across the aisle, in the hopes of making bipartisan progress and simultaneously winning points with independent voters who disdain partisanship. Even if the efforts produced few agreements with Republicans, the White House figured, independents would give Mr. Obama credit for trying.
Instead, the president was unable to close his deal with Mr. Boehner and has only lost independents' support and left Democrats disillusioned, raising doubts about his re-election prospects.
So after his initial two years of dealing with an economic and financial crisis while pursuing an activist social agenda with Democrats in control of the House and Senate, and then a frustrating third year sharing power with Republicans, Mr. Obama now begins writing a third chapter for his final 15 months that is not the one he had in mind.
''It is fair to say we've entered a new phase,'' said Dan Pfeiffer, Mr. Obama's communications director. But he disputed what he called the conventional wisdom behind the president's shift.
''The popular narrative is that we sought compromise in a quixotic quest for independent votes. We sought out compromise because a failure to get funding of the government last spring and then an extension of the debt ceiling in August would have been very bad for the economy and for the country,'' Mr. Pfeiffer added. ''We were in a position of legislative compromise by necessity. That phase is behind us.''
In this new phase, Mr. Obama must solidify support among Democrats by standing pat for progressive party principles, while trusting that a show of strong leadership for the policies he believes in will appeal to independents. Polls consistently suggest that perhaps the only thing that unites independents as much as their desire for compromise is their inclination toward leaders who signal strength by fighting for their beliefs.
''The president laid down a marker today that is true to his beliefs,'' said Jacob J. Lew, director of Mr. Obama's Office of Management and Budget. In response, Mr. Boehner said in a statement that Mr. Obama by his deficit-reduction plan ''has not made a serious contribution'' to the work of a bipartisan joint Congressional committee, which has two months to reach agreement on cutting deficits by at least $1.5 trillion in 10 years.
''The administration's insistence on raising taxes on job creators and its reluctance to take the steps necessary to strengthen our entitlement programs are the reasons the president and I were not able to reach an agreement previously,'' Mr. Boehner said. ''And it is evident today that these barriers remain.''
Mr. Obama's plan to reduce annual deficits up to $4 trillion over a decade does call for subtracting $320 billion from Medicare and Medicaid, building on savings required in his health care law.
But those proposals are far from the overhaul and reductions that Republicans are demanding in the two popular entitlement programs, whose growth because of the aging of the population and ever-rising medical costs is driving the long-term projections of unsustainable debt.
And Mr. Obama removed Social Security from the table, as well as a proposal to slowly raise the eligibility age for Medicare to 67 from 65. He put both forward in July, to the chagrin of many Democrats, in private negotiations with Mr. Boehner that fell apart when the speaker balked at agreeing to higher revenues. Administration officials say Mr. Obama is not ruling out either proposal if Republicans were to show significant give on taxes.
But the White House does not expect Republicans to do so. Indeed, Mr. Obama's new tack in pressing the deficit-reduction framework and $447 billion jobs-creation plan that he wants -- not trimmed to draw Republicans' votes -- reflects the conclusion he has drawn from the past 10 months: Republicans will oppose almost anything he proposes, even tax cuts. And Mr. Boehner is unable to deliver his uncompromisingly anti-tax Republicans for any compromise that includes tax revenues.
Mr. Obama believed he had built a good working relationship with Mr. Boehner based on a shared desire for a deal modeled on proposals of past bipartisan panels, which called for a mix of new revenues and changes in entitlement programs.
But their relationship was severely strained after Mr. Boehner abandoned their budget talks in July, came back and then walked out a second time. And after what the White House saw as a third strike this month -- Mr. Boehner's humiliating public rejection of Mr. Obama's requested date for an address to a joint session of Congress -- the Obama team called Mr. Boehner out.
Their breach was evident in Mr. Obama's remarks. He singled out Mr. Boehner in his criticism of Republicans as unwilling to compromise, a break from the past when Mr. Obama typically criticized Republicans in general but mentioned Mr. Boehner only to praise him as a constructive partner. Not this time.
''Unfortunately, the speaker walked away from a balanced package,'' Mr. Obama said, referring to their earlier talks. ''What we agreed to instead wasn't all that grand.''
Then he mocked Mr. Boehner for a speech last week in which the speaker said only spending cuts could be part of a budget deal.
''So the speaker says we can't have it 'my way or the highway' and then basically says, 'My way -- or the highway,' '' Mr. Obama said. ''That's not smart. It's not right.''
The president kept up his offensive even on Monday night, at a fund-raiser in Manhattan with wealthy donors from Wall Street.
''And you're already hearing the moans and groans from the other side about how we are engaging in class warfare and we're being too populist,'' Mr. Obama said. But, he added, ''if we don't succeed, then I think that this country is going to go down a very perilous path. And it's not going to be good for those of us who have done incredibly well in this society, and it's certainly not going to be good for the single mom who's working two shifts right now trying to support her family.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In remarks Monday in the Rose Garden, President Obama vowed, ''We are not going to have a one-sided deal that hurts the folks who are most vulnerable.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETO (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); MEDICARE (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN BOEHNER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



854 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: In Trying to Walk Away From Deal, Cerberus Has Weak MAC Claim

BYLINE: STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF


HIGHLIGHT: A trial draws near on Innkeepers USA Trust's lawsuit to force Cerberus and another firm to complete an acquisition for 64 hotel properties. 

 BODY:
Cerberus Capital Management and Chatham Lodging Trust have a court date.
A federal bankruptcy court judge in Manhattan has set Oct. 10 as the trial date for the Innkeepers USA Trust's lawsuit that seeks to force the pair to complete their acquisition of 64 Innkeepers hotel properties. But based on the initial filings of the parties, Cerberus and Chatham might not find a happy ending as this trial approaches. 
Cerberus and Chatham have now filed separate answers responding to Innkeepers' lawsuit. Cerberus's answer pushes the argument that it is entitled to back out of the acquisition because of the material adverse change clause in the parties' acquisition agreement. Cerberus does not claim anything specific has happened to Innkeepers to justify invoking the MAC clause. Instead Cerberus asserts that:
it cannot be seriously disputed that adverse changes in the debt and equity capital markets between May 16, 2011 and today - including a 30 to 40 percent decline in the equity market value of comparable hotel operators, Standard & Poor's downgrade of the United States' credit rating, severe tightening of the credit markets, and according to analysts reports, a close to 50-50 chance of a "double-dip recession - can reasonably be expected to result in a material adverse change.
Cerberus' claims about the state of economy have a chilling implication for deal-making overall this fall.
But even if Cerberus is right that the economy is rapidly in decline,
Cerberus does not have a good chance of winning its MAC claim. The specific wording of the MAC clause in the parties' agreement requires that the effect occur on Innkeepers itself and not the economy. (See my earlier post for the text of the MAC clause.) 
Cerberus is side-stepping this issue by claiming that these wide-spread economic effects are affecting Innkeepers. The Innkeepers MAC is favorable to Cerberus in its wording, but even then, this is not how MACs are typically interpreted. Instead, courts looking at MAC claims typically focus on events at the company itself not indirect ones. 
Courts have been loath to look at outside economic effects as generating a MAC. This is particularly true when the events were foreseeable, as is the case with the economic events that Cerberus cites. 
If Cerberus wanted to it could have negotiated a market MAC to account for this. This is a clause which allows a party to terminate the acquisition if market conditions generally deteriorate. 
But according to Innkeepers, such a market MAC was proposed and rejected by Innkeepers in its initial stalking horse agreement with rival bidders, Five Mile Capital Partners and Lehman Brothers (the Lehman estate owns some Innkeepers' loans). Cerbeus and Chatham never even proposed such a provision, Innkeepers says.
The weakness of Cerberus's MAC claim may be why Chatham in its own answer never even raises this argument.
Instead Chatham, also joined by Cerberus, makes a better argument that under the terms of the deal, both Chatham and Cerberus are liable only for the $20 million deposit they made in connection with the signing of the acquisition agreement.
Chatham and Cerberus argue that they did agree to purchase Innkeepers and signed an agreement to such an effect. But their winning bid was submitted pursuant to a standard bankruptcy procedures order issued by the court. Section 8 of this order states that:
retention of the [$20 million deposit], plus accrued interest, as liquidated damages, shall be the sole remedy at law and in equity of [Innkeepers] against the Successful Bidder.
Cerberus and Chatham argue that this provision was incorporated into their acquisition agreement and therefore the pair's total liability cannot exceed the deposit. 
Innkeepers has yet to respond to this argument, but will likely counter with two points. First the acquisition agreement contains an integration clause. This is a boilerplate legal clause that is included in most documents. The clause states that the entire agreement of the parties is embodied in the acquisition agreement. Because of this, the parties did not incorporate Section 8 of the bidding procedures order and its liability limitation. 
The original bid from Five Mile and Lehman contained a liquidated damages provision specifically stating that the bidders' ultimate liability was the deposit. In the Cerberus/Chatham deal the provision was deleted by the parties. Innkeepers will likely also argue that the integration clause combined with the deletion of this provision shows that it was the intent of the parties not to incorporate the bidding procedures order. 
Those who follow deal history are chuckling right now. In 2007, Cerberus successfully walked on its acquisition of UnitedRentals by paying a reverse termination fee of $100 million. But before Cerberus could terminate this transaction Cerberus was first forced into litigation with United Rentals over a contract ambiguity about whether Cerberus was instead required to complete the transaction. Now, Cerberus is doing the opposite, attempting to leverage an ambiguity in its favor to walk from an acquisition. 
While Cerberus and Chatham are fighting a losing battle on the MAC claim, the argument about the deposit appears more convincing. Still, the fact that there is an integration clause in the agreement works strongly against the two buyers. 
In this light, the best argument the two have is that the bidding procedures order provides overriding rules that cannot be waived. 
Alternatively, the two argue that because the commitment letter mentions that the deposit will be made in accordance with the bidding procedures order, the provisions on liability limitation are also incorporated. But I don't find either of these arguments particularly compelling. These are sophisticated parties who could have specifically agreed to make the deposit Innkeepers' sole remedy. They did not do so in an agreement that says it is the entire understanding of the parties. 
The different answers may be a sign that it is Cerberus who is driving the attempt to walk from the Innkeepers deal. And Cerberus knows the strength of its case. It is likely trying to buy time or leverage the uncertainty for a renegotiation. This strategy may even work. 
Still, this is now the second time Cerberus has tried to walk from a significant acquisition. Selling companies that deal with the private-equity firm in the future may want to ask for a much bigger and clearer penalty if Cerberus wants to do business with them. 
You know the saying. Fool me once, shame on you, fool me twice shame on me. We are now up to three times. 

        
The MAC Is Back, but Does It Kill a Deal?
        
Innkeepers Sues Cerberus for Backing Out of Deal

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); JUDGES (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CREDIT BUREAUS (72%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (68%); DIVESTITURES (66%) Cerberus Capital Management; Chatham Lodging Trust; Innkeepers USA Trust; Material Adverse Condition; Hotels and Motels; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Suits and Litigation; Manhattan (NYC); Chatham Lodging Trust|CLDT|NYSE; Deal Professor; Mergers & Acquisitions; Private Equity; Restructuring/Bankruptcy; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (74%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (59%); CHATHAM LODGING TRUST (58%); APOLLO ADVISORS LP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Cerberus Capital Management; Chatham Lodging Trust; Innkeepers USA Trust

TICKER: CLDT (NYSE) (58%) Chatham Lodging Trust; CLDT; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (74%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (74%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



855 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Time to Boycott Tuna Again?

BYLINE: MARK BITTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: In California, and elsewhere, new scrutiny of tuna-catching methods. 

 BODY:
I wish I'd been in La Jolla a couple of weeks ago to see the green inflatable airship flying overhead with a cartoon mermaid on one side. She was curvy and blonde, with a cigarette in her mouth and a bloody fish impaled on her trident. Around her was text that read, "Chicken of the Sea: Carnage in a Tuna Can."
Are we looking at another tuna boycott? Many readers will remember 1988, when biologist Sam LaBudde went to work as a cook on a Panamanian tuna boat and secretly shot film that showed dolphins dying in nets and being crushed in winches, as many as 20 for every tuna. The video was shown to a Senate subcommittee and sparked a consumer boycott of canned tuna. Two years later, Starkist - then owned by Heinz - announced it would no longer buy any tuna caught by methods that threatened dolphins. Bumble Bee and Chicken of the Sea quickly followed suit, and "dolphin-safe tuna" was born. (Strangely enough, the World Trade Organization just ruled against dolphin-safe tuna labels, but that's another story.)
Canned tuna was then the most popular fish in America; it's been replaced by shrimp, but we still eat a billion dollars' worth a year. And Greenpeace USA - creators of the flying, cigarette-smoking mermaid - has launched a campaign to reform the canned tuna industry. Indications are it will succeed, because its demands have already been met in the U.K. But if it doesn't, a boycott may be in order, and one member of Congress has already called for one.

The day after the flying mermaid's voyage, the environmental organization delivered a 700-page petition to San Diego-based Chicken of the Sea imploring the company to abandon fishing practices that maximize bycatch - the "accidental" catch of non-targeted fish - and deplete dwindling stocks. 
Much canned tuna is skipjack, and much of that is caught using fish aggregating devices (F.A.D.'s), purse seine nets and longlines. An F.A.D. is simply a buoy, or even a log (really, it can be almost anything that floats), cast by a boat into the water. Small fish find them and use them as shelter from larger fish; the larger fish then come to hunt, and soon enough the F.A.D. is at the center of a small, dense ecosystem. 
Most F.A.D.'s are equipped with radio beacons that relay their position back to the boats; some also have biomass sensors to indicate how many fish are in the neighborhood. When a boat believes that the fish population around an F.A.D. has reached a substantial mass, it comes back with massive purse seine nets, scooping up the entire surrounding ecosystem. And although skipjack is the target, the nets pull in sharks, billfish like sword and marlin, and young yellowfin and bigeye tuna, which often comprise as much as 20 percent of the total catch. (Need I point out that killing young fish cripples future stocks?)
Longlines, which are often used for albacore tuna - also canned - are similarly indiscriminate. Miles of line stretch from buoy to buoy with baited hooks hanging down every few yards. (Stop for a moment and imagine what "miles of line" look like.) Turtles get snagged on the hooks and can't return to the surface to breathe. Seabirds think the hooks are fish, dive down, and get caught. And again, the bycatch is tremendous. (Industry-wide, the bycatch of industrial fishing is as high as 25 percent.) 
All of this, says Greenpeace's Casson Trenor, one of the central figures of the tuna campaign, is bad enough, but the group would also like to see a ban on fishing in what are know as "high seas pockets," four areas of ocean just beyond the territorial waters of a handful of Pacific island nations. Because these waters don't belong to any particular state, tuna boats - often from wealthier nations like Spain, Taiwan and the United States - swarm in these pockets, operating without quotas, catch limits or access fees. Despite some regulations, the area is effectively lawless, and the largely tuna-based economies of those nearby Pacific islands take a huge hit as a result. 
Last week Congressman Eni Faleomavaega, the representative from American Samoa, welcomed Greenpeace and called for a full ban on F.A.D.'s and high-seas-pockets fishing, and asked Americans to refrain from buying any products from Chicken of the Sea or Bumble Bee. (Faleomavaega exempts Starkist because they have not, like the others, exported tuna cleaning jobs to Thailand; Greenpeace doesn't see Starkist as much different, but isn't actively calling for any boycott.) 
A boycott wasn't a necessary component of Greenpeace's recent victory in the U.K.: just months ago, the last major holdout - tuna giant John West - joined the rest of the big players in that canned tuna industry in a commitment to stop using F.A.D.'s with purse seine nets, and switch to pole and line fishing. Chicken of the Sea is owned by the same Thai parent company as John West. Clearly, if one major subsidiary can succumb to pressure and shift its practices, so can another. 
Meanwhile, Greenpeace is pouring on the pressure; Trenor is currently in the Pacific islands to film and potentially interfere with tuna boats using F.A.D.'s in one of the high-seas pockets, especially U.S.-flagged ships with proven links to Chicken of the Sea. 
"We're not against canned tuna," wrote Trenor in an e-mail. "Americans, like all consumers, deserve access to a supply of affordable and convenient protein. But we also deserve to know the truth behind the methods that are employed to produce it, and to make an informed choice as to whether we wish to support those methods. The bottom line is that the tuna companies can do things better."
Sam LaBudde's dolphin video was the first of its kind, and in a pre-YouTube era. Now we seem immune: keep in mind that despite the fairly regular release of shocking livestock cruelty videos, we haven't seen any widespread boycotts of factory farmed meat. But if you think about it, the F.A.D. and purse seine strategy is just another form of animal confinement. It's not "farming," but it's industrial. And if Americans can be persuaded to change their buying habits to prevent one form of animal cruelty, there's hope for another. 
And it may take more than a damning video, a sinister mermaid blimp and a petition to shift the practices of the canned tuna industry; even a rogue crusader in Congress (representing an area of which most Americans are barely aware) might not make a dent. 
It's going to happen, though. The U.K. did it, and sooner or later so will the U.S. We made dolphins safe. Turtles, sharks, sea birds, young yellowfin and bigeye should be next. It's an easy fix, one that might not require a boycott. If it does, however, it'll be an easy one to support. And it will show us the way to what should come next. 

        
Breathing While Undocumented

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARINE MAMMALS (90%); BOYCOTTS (90%); SEAFOOD (90%); FINFISH FISHING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COMMERCIAL FISHING EQUIPMENT (89%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (86%); SEAFOOD PROCESSING (77%); FISHING BYCATCH (77%); SMOKING (72%); NEW ISSUES (70%); BIOMASS (63%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (63%) boycotts; canned tuna; dolphins; tuna fishing; Tuna; Greenpeace; Mark Bittman

COMPANY: CHICKEN OF THE SEA INTERNATIONAL (58%)

ORGANIZATION: GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (82%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); GREENPEACE USA (54%) Greenpeace

INDUSTRY: NAICS311710 SEAFOOD PRODUCT PREPARATION & PACKAGING (58%); SIC2091 CANNED & CURED FISH & SEAFOOD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (54%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



856 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Motherlode)

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: Are Poor Parents Poorer at Parenting?

BYLINE: LISA BELKIN


HIGHLIGHT: A focus on what low-income parents are doing right. 

 BODY:
Whenever we get too complacent around here -- too black and white rather than gray; too quick to act on assumptions we don't even realize that we hold -- Dr. Richard Weissbourd, a Harvard psychology lecturer and author of "The Parents We Mean to Be: How Well-Intentioned Adults Undermine Children's Moral and Emotional Development," comes by to remind us that things are far more complicated (and more interesting) than we'd thought.
His guest post here is triggered by our conversation awhile back about whether the parents who do the most fretting about their children's futures are, by definition, the ones with the least reason for worry. That conversation, in turn, was triggered by an analytical article in The Sunday Review section of The Times by Motoko Rich, suggesting exactly that.
Where, Dr. Weissbourd wonders, do we come up with the belief that poor parents are, well, poorer at parenting?
THE VANITY OF FALSE DISTINCTIONS
By Richard Weissbourd

Though Americans sometimes poke fun at affluent parents, it is low-income parents who really draw fire and concern. Take Motoko Rich's argument in The New York Times not long ago: "Paradoxically, the kind of parents who follow debates about parenting -- typically more affluent and educated -- may be those with the least to worry about." Who should be worrying, in Ms. Rich's opinion? Low-income parents, apparently. "Differences in parenting can matter a lot to poor, underprivileged children," she says, "and research shows that better parenting could help improve their opportunities in many ways." 
Think, too, about negative stereotypes about low-income parents, including obese, drunk, dumb, ornery dads in trailer parks and, as Randall Kenan, who writes about Southern poverty, puts it, "long-suffering, quickly aging, overly fertile, too-young-marrying, hard-headed women." Research also suggests that some teachers expect less from poor children because they doubt parents' abilities. One study indicates that physicians, given the same profile of a child's injuries and the context of the injuries, are more likely to assume a child is abused if told the child comes from a low-income family as opposed to a middle class one.
There is, of course, something reassuring in the conceit that one's own group of parents is superior to another group of parents. Robert Kennedy once called this the "vanity of our false distinctions among men." But is it really true that low-income parents are the only ones with room to improve? Does more money lead to better parenting? Should more affluent parents just ignore all that parenting advice?
Let's first consider one measure of successful parenting - academic achievement. Children in poverty, to be sure, are more likely to struggle in school, in part because their parents can't afford books and other educational materials and are often dealing with many poverty-related stresses, including working two or three jobs. Yet large numbers of middle and upper class kids also flounder in school. For example, while economically disadvantaged children are more likely to drop out than financially better off children, the majority of children who drop out of school are not poor.
Somewhere along the way, many Americans appear to have accepted that when raising children it's more important to nurture their academic achievement than it is their moral development. But we shouldn't use academic achievement, important as it is, as the main measure of successful parenting. Succeeding in school became more important than becoming a good, caring person and responsible citizen. But caring, responsible citizens are, of course, the foundation of a healthy and just society.
And when both moral and emotional development are taken into account, the notion that low-income parents, in contrast to better off parents, are the ones that need help is even farther from the truth. I am not glossing over troubling trends in low-income communities, including high rates of incarceration among youth. Yet research by Suniya Luthar at Columbia University, for example, suggests that affluent children suffer high rates of emotional and moral troubles -- delinquency, behavior troubles, drug abuse, anxiety, depression -- in many cases as high or higher than low-income children, despite the many stresses low-income families endure. Another study indicates that depression among affluent girls is two to three times higher than in the general population.
And parenting practices are commonly at the root of these troubles. Studies suggest that these high rates are tied to parents who fail to monitor and to spend sufficient time with their kids and to parents who are obsessed with their children achieving. The research aside, anyone who spends time in middle or upper class communities can see the harm done to children by some parents who are neglectful or who spoil them rotten.
Low-income parents appear to be stronger on other moral measures. Both my own and others' research indicates that both low-income Latino and African American parents, for example, unlike large numbers of middle and upper class families, tend to prioritize whether their children respect others and support and take responsibility for their families.
Rather than focusing solely on what low-income parents are doing wrong, middle- and upper-income parents might also consider what many low-income parents are doing right. And all of us as parents, whether affluent or low-income, need advice at times from experts -- and from each other -- about how to raise moral, academically successful and emotionally healthy children.

        
How Much Is Too Much Homework?
        
Is It Possible to Legislate Good Parenting?
        
Jailed for Choosing a Better School?
        
Encouraging a High-School Dropout
        
To Skip a Grade or Hold a Child Back?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PARENTING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); CHILD POVERTY (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (88%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); WRITERS (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (72%); TRENDS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TRAILER PARKS (50%) education; poverty; Economic Conditions and Trends; Education (K-12); Families and Family Life; Income; Parenting

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



857 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Another View: Let's License Corporate Directors

BYLINE: JONATHAN F. FOSTER


HIGHLIGHT: Jonathan F. Foster, the founder and managing director of Current Capital, argues that licensing directors would help ensure their competency in corporate governance. 

 BODY:
Many occupations require licenses to prove competency, including accountants, investment professionals, physicians, private investigators and security guards. While licensees are not necessarily excellent at what they do, a license does guarantee that a licensee has fulfilled the requirements for a given role determined by a reputable authority.
So, why not require licenses for directors of publicly traded corporations to confirm their competency in corporate governance?
Governance can be defined as the "exercise of authority or control." A member of a board of directors is "one of a group of persons chosen to control or govern the affairs of a company." In other words, the oversight of management on behalf of a company's shareholders is vested in the board of directors. While the shareholders elect the board, and there is an accelerating trend with publicly traded companies to vote on each director every year, there are no specific requirements and no required license for a director of a public company.
An important step to help encourage good governance and help increase the public's confidence in the oversight of our country's companies could be to require licenses for directors of publicly traded companies in the United States.
To obtain a license for a given position, the requirements typically include the completion of an approved course of study, passing of a written and/or practical examination and experience at acceptable levels. 
For example, to become a licensed certified public accountant, state requirements generally include education, examination and experience requirements. Typically, the education requirement is a bachelor's degree, which includes a minimum number of qualifying credit hours in accounting and business administration. The candidate must sit for and pass the 14-hour, four-section uniform certified public accountant examination. Experience requirements vary but are usually one or two years of accounting experience. C.P.A.s are also required to take continuing education courses in order to renew their licenses.
Similarly, the "Series 7" is the basic test and license for securities professionals. The examination has sections on customer issues, securities markets, economic and financial issues and portfolio analysis. All registered individuals also have to complete periodic computer-based training focused on compliance, regulatory, ethical and sales practice standards.
These examples offer a possible road map for licensing directors of public companies. A license for directors could be granted by each state with full reciprocity between states. Because effective directors can come from so many backgrounds, an appropriate education requirement is difficult to define. However, capable directors must be thoughtful and mature. Thus, an age and experience requirement is necessary: at least 30 years of age and 10 years of full-time work experience.
A "national examination for directors of public corporations" might cover six areas: corporate governance; ethics; leadership and organizational structure; corporate finance, accounting and control; technology and systems; and sales and marketing. Continuing education is critical to keep up with new issues; 20 hours a year of continuing education should be required.
Corporate governance is evolving, and largely improving, as a result of catalysts ranging from federal legislation to activist shareholders and institutional investors. It is noteworthy, however, that licenses are required for accountants, investment professionals and doctors -- as well as cosmetologists and massage therapists -- but not for corporate directors. Maybe they should be.

        
No D.& O. Liability Risk? Wouldn't That Be Nice
        
How Independent Are Barnes & Noble Directors?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); ETHICS (89%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); PROFESSIONAL CONTINUING EDUCATION (78%); BUSINESS ETHICS (76%); TRENDS (76%); LICENSES & PERMITS (73%); INVESTIGATION & SECURITY SERVICES (73%); COMPUTER BASED TRAINING (62%) Boards of Directors; Corporate Governance; Tests and Examinations; Another View; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



858 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Frugal Traveler)

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: In Rio de Janeiro, Juice Bars That Are More Than Juice

BYLINE: SETH KUGEL


HIGHLIGHT: The big cities in Brazil have become expensive, but Seth Kugel finds a way to eat cheaply and healthily in Rio, without setting foot outside of the upscale beachfront haven of Ipanema. 

 BODY:
If you caught the recent front page article in the Times entitled "Foreigners Follow Money to Booming Brazil, Land of $35 Martini," you know how expensive Brazil has become. By some measures, Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo are now more costly than London or New York or Oslo -- amazing considering that some of their municipal services are more like those in La Paz or Dakar. 
Needless to say Brazil's booming economy and strong currency have made it a difficult place to travel on the cheap. I'll never stop recommending Rio de Janeiro as a destination, but these days surviving a budget trip to the city requires a few tricks. 
Today I'll share one: for way less than the price of that $35 martini, you can eat three very Brazilian, generously portioned, surprisingly healthy meals a day without setting foot outside the upscale beachfront haven of Ipanema. 
Here's the key: the city's freewheeling, fast-moving corner juice bars, where countermen take your order and appear to yell it -- "orange with papaya, no sugar!" -- into a wall of pineapples, guavas, apples and mangoes. A minute or two later, a glass appears from an opening in the wall, filled with ice-cold, frothy, delicious juice. You down it at the counter, and head off to the beach. 
At least, that's what many tourists think that these juice bars - most of which are small, Rio-only chains - are about. Far from it. They are also restaurants, somewhat akin to New York's Greek diners, with deep menus that range from morning coffee to cheap savory snacks to bargain rice-and-beans lunch plates and healthy sandwiches for the bikini-clad set on route from the gym to the beach. Since the food is not just varied but cheap, very Brazilian and largely healthy, a traveler could almost eat every meal there for a week.
Or at least a day. Which is what I did last week at Beach Sucos, my personal favorite, at No. 198 on Rua Visconde de Piraja, the main drag of Ipanema. (There are two other locations.) My goal: to go further into the menu than I had before, to create a sample full-day menu and to see what a typical breakfast, lunch and dinner would cost. 
If it struck the friendly, if frenzied, workers as odd that I kept coming back for more, they didn't let on. They are used to regular customers, especially the workers in local shops who live in far less wealthy neighborhoods and can't afford the prices in the typical Ipanema dining spot. The fact that I was taking photos of everything didn't seem to faze them either: they're also used to camera-happy tourists. 
I'll get to my sample three-meal day below, but first, a breakdown of what you can get at Beach Sucos since the menu is in in Portuguese, and a lot of available items aren't even on it, but are posted on the wall or labeled behind the counter. (Other chains' menus are quite similar.) It can be confusing. No wonder visitors tend to default to the same order every time like, oh, say, suco de graviola. 
Sucos (juices): The choices are endless. The list on the wall has 38 fruits, from the familiar -- orange and pineapple, lime and watermelon - to the unusual: fruits from the Amazon and Cerrado regions like cupuacu, caja and my new favorite, the pearlike mangaba. They are not all available at all times of year, and some harder-to-transport fruits are available only in frozen pulp. To find out, ask if a certain juice is "natural," the Portuguese word that vaguely means "fresh-squeezed." There is a separate list of sucos especiais (special juices), mostly mixes like pineapple and fresh mint, a refreshing why-didn't-we-think-of-that Brazilian standard. A useful phrase here is "sem acucar," meaning "don't add sugar."
Acai: Before the deep purple blueberry-shaped acai fruit became a controversial health-food craze across the world, its frozen pulp mixed with granola (you eat with a spoon) or banana or infused with ginseng or guarana became a staple of the Rio juice bar scene. (Note that it's presweetened, so no "sem acucar" option here.) 
Vitaminas: The term for milkshakes, which apparently are believed by Brazilians to have lots of vitamins. Notable is the abacate option - made from avocados.
Unusual mixes: You'll spot posters advertising healthy-sounding blends that combine juice with ingredients like wheat grass and flax. They have names like the Bahian bomb.
Salgados: Not listed on the menu, these "savory things" under the glass counter are pretty standard across Brazil, generally consisting of some sort of dough (baked or fried) and some sort of filling of meats or cheeses or hearts of palm. They're cheap and filling. 
Breakfast: Coffee, buttered toast, omelets and fruit salad give an especially dinerlike vibe to the place in the morning.
Hot sandwiches: Several categories on the menu fall under this rubric, ranging from the classic misto quente (grilled ham and cheese) to filet mignon and chicken filets (filet de frango) to a huge list of hamburger varieties with various toppings. Note that many juice bars use the shorthand X-burguer to mean cheeseburger, since the Portuguese word for the letter "X" sounds a lot like "cheese." Adorable, unless you're an unsuspecting lactose-intolerant tourist.
Sanduiches naturais ("natural sandwiches"): Again, the word natural means something a bit different than in English - it refers to sandwiches that are not grilled and generally less greasy. We're talking chicken salad, ricotta cheese, that sort of thing.
Pratos executivos ("executive plates"): Around lunchtime on weekdays, Beach Sucos fills up with workers who are no way paying what tourists and upper-class residents shell out in area restaurants. Executive plates (not that you're likely to find any executives eating them) are meat-rice-beans-salad combos that anyone who has been around Latin America will recognize. 
Pizzas and crepes: They don't look good, but I didn't test them out. 
Doces (sweets): Beach Sucos offers the classic brigadeiro (a super-rich trufflelike bonbon made with condensed milk, butter and cocoa powder and coated in chocolate sprinkles), the quindim (a super-rich egg yolk and coconut sweet) and cakes sold by the slice. 
Here's the sample menu I developed (though I actually ate much more than I list here for sampling purposes), with prices in reais (at 1.68 reais to the dollar). Some items are meant to be split with a companion. 
Breakfast (13.35 reais) 
1) Orange juice (3.50 reais): It's fresh squeezed, of course. Also good mixed with papaya juice.
2) Cafezinho (1.20): Coffee, served at your table with steamed milk.
3) Half of a large fruit salad (4.25): Enormous and delicious.
4) Half a ham and cheese omelet with toast (4.40): Not a work of art, but tasty.
Lunch (19.40 reais)
1) Jabuticaba juice (4.80 reais): The juice of the cupuacu, fruit, which has a white pulp and a grapelike taste, is a must to try if in season. Finding it anywhere else in the world is just about impossible.
2) Prato executivo: chicken stroganoff (12.00): Served with salad, rice and French fries. Brazilians have made stroganoff their own, and Beach Sucos does a pretty good version.
3) Dessert: Brigadeiro or quindim (2.60).
Dinner (12.30 reais)
1) Clorofila Mix (4.90 reais): One of the odd special juice concoctions, with wheat grass, guarana, flax, pineapple and kiwi.
2) Ricotta and spinach sandwich (7.40): Under the "sanduiches light" category. 
Grand total: 45.05 reais, or $26.80
That leaves you still $8 shy of the cost of that martini, but who drinks martinis in Brazil anyway? For $8, you can afford to get four mighty stiff caipirinhas from street vendors in the downtown party district of Lapa. But believe me, two will be quite enough.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); BEACHES (88%); RESTAURANTS (88%); BUDGETS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%) Budget Travel; Health Foods; Restaurants; Travel and Vacations; Brazil; Rio de Janeiro (Brazil)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) BRAZIL (98%); UNITED STATES (93%) Brazil; Rio de Janeiro (Brazil)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



859 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(T Magazine)

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE; culture

LENGTH: 1775 words

HEADLINE: Asked & Answered | Christopher Bollen

BYLINE: JACOB BROWN


HIGHLIGHT: In his first novel, Christopher Bollen turns his inside-as-inside-gets perspective and experience with young creative Manhattanites into fertile literary ground. 

 BODY:
As the longtime editor of downtown magazines like V and Interview, the writer Christopher Bollen has lived for years at the center of New York life in all of its diverse iterations, from creative glitz through cutthroat entrepreneurialism to the desperation bred by failed dreams. In "Lightning People" (Soft Skull, $25), his first novel, Bollen turns his inside-as-inside-gets perspective and experience with young creative Manhattanites into fertile literary ground, cultivating a tale of the city as universal and globe-spanning as it is singular and all his own. Bollen will take part in a talk, and a reading, at the Union Square Barnes & Noble on Thursday. Following the release of his book last week - and the expected release party filled with art and fashion luminaries - The Moment sat down with Bollen to ask a few questions.
Q.
 When did you realize you would write this novel?
A.
 Actually, I first envisioned the novel while on the back of a motorbike in Greece some years ago when I was on vacation there. I thought I saw a snake in the road, which turned out to be a cable, but the image stuck with me, and, on the course of that ride, parts of the book started falling together. I knew I wanted to write about a version of New York that I hadn't found in any other books or films, and I knew I wanted to involve a sordid family history, but really it was on the back of the motorbike that Del and Joseph (two of the main characters) started to find their roots. I can write in New York, but I find that initial ideas and inspirations for stories percolate better when I'm outside of the city and can see a bit farther. In fact, I'd probably be a much more prolific writer if I were forced to drive a car outside of Manhattan every day.
It is unavoidable that people from New York will read the book and try to figure out who the characters are based on. Any hints?
In truth, except for one specific case, none of the characters were based on anyone I know in New York. I was very careful not to use friends and acquaintances as material, fearing some sort of "Answered Prayers"-style backlash (if people still care about being thinly veiled fictional characters at this point). But I hope the characters in "Lightning People" ring true to the type of world I was trying to depict, one where there is this startling jumble of the rich and the poor, the desperate and the dispossessed, the good and the lost. No doubt, though, I probably added some confusion by using a few names of people I know. What can I say? New Yorkers have wonderful names and I couldn't resist them. But honestly those names are not in any way meant to reflect any real-life counterparts. Certainly, though, I did rely on experiences I've had living in New York for the past 15 years. You see some pretty wild ups and downs in this city, and those situations are prime for a novel about New York.
Do you see yourself more in any of the characters than the others, or in one specifically? Or as a writer is it more the Freudian, "we are all the characters in our dreams," sort of thing?

I wrote this novel over a five-year period, and definitely at different times I felt drawn to particular characters: I love Madi's ferocious wit and I admired Del's toughness more than I could ever possess myself. I also understood Raj's severe depression and just wanting to lie down and hide through life. But I found for me to make these characters believable - to fill them up almost like decorating a room - I had to embody them as much as I could while writing from their perspective. So there is probably a little of me in all of them. "Lightning People" is very much a character-driven novel. It occurred to me that since New York can no longer be defined by a neighborhood or a group or a class or a scene, which is what so many New York novels focus on, I had to create a city populated by isolated personalities that keep crashing into each other. To do that, I really had to flesh them out, give them private stories and hideous insecurities and nagging desires and a few stains on their clothes. They get pretty beaten up in this book, and I'm afraid no one makes it through without some serious damage.
From beginning to end, Cincinnati pulls on the story. Do we ever escape our hometowns?
We never escape our past. . It catches up. It sits in our nerve endings and waits to be activated. I was really taken with this notion that most of us who come here from other places sincerely believe for a while that we can just leave our roots and start over reborn in New York. And New York encourages this fantasy. New York - like President Bush - wants you to believe that if you keep shopping and keep spending and keep dancing your years away, you never have to confront any truths or uncomfortable history. We as Americans have a pretty faulty sense of history. We don't see the past as having any influence over us. That's why I was motivated to create a character like Joseph, who is literally plagued by his own history, who cannot just fly out of Cincinnati and never have to look back. Cincinnati comes and finds him. He eventually is forced to examine that flyover state and what it means for him. Personally I love coming from the Midwest. And I think anyone who drives by the house they grew up in, whether their family still owns it or not, experiences that kind of emotional pull of their roots. Thank God we don't spontaneously emerge from Delta economy seats into La Guardia Airport as these wet, new beings without convoluted pasts.
I've heard you considered changing the name of the character Dash in your story after the death of Dash Snow. How did you make the decision not to?
Dash was the one exception I was talking about earlier. I needed to give Del a romantic history, and I did use Dash as the model for her first college boyfriend. Dash was a friend of mine, and I think I can speak for most people who knew him when I say that he was a rather amazing, beautiful, one-of-a-kind creature. That character dies tragically in Del's memory, and I always thought when I finished the book that I'd have to tell Dash, "I'm so sorry I killed off this character. I only put him in there because I'm so enamored with you myself. Only the best for Del!" Then, when I was about two-thirds through the book, Dash did die. My first reaction was to go back and rewrite that scene, constructing a whole new boyfriend. But eventually, I decided to leave it, hoping for it to serve as a little tribute to a wonderful friend who passed away too young. I hope it does that.
William's character, a once glowing, now desperate actor, is so compelling. Is that sort of the person we all fear becoming? Or do you think he is more of a demon who has always been that way and isn't the sort of person you become through circumstance?
I think William is probably the most "New York" character I have in the book. And is there anything more tragic than someone like an actor who gets by on hope, looks and talent in his 20s only to see all of that disintegrate without any other skills or prospects to keep him afloat? I think it's a very real fear that a lot of us in this city face, that we are one paycheck or one good break away from total destruction. Especially in such erratic jobs like the arts. William may be a demon, but he is a demon that was made by New York and the seeming endless store of promises it pretends to offer. In my time here, I've seen optimistic promising people crash and burn very hard. And it's like steering the opposite way when a car starts skidding, the more you try to save yourself in blind desperation, the worse your situation gets. I've worked at magazines for the last 12 years, but when I first got out of college I waited tables. And to be honest I never feel so solvent or settled that there might not be a future moment when I might have to return to that job. William can't do that because he has too much pride. Can you imagine, if only William had applied for a bartending job, none of the tragic events in "Lightning People" would have happened!
Raj and Madi, both children of immigrants, go in two different directions, him toward art and her toward overachieving entrepreneurship. How much research did you do into Sikh culture and religion in developing them?
I was always fascinated by the Sikh religion and actually know one or two acquaintances who are Sikh or come from Sikh families. Yet I feel like Sikhs never really appear in fiction except for the occasional cabdriver. Funnily enough, I remember when I was starting to invent Raj and Madi, a Sikh cabdriver gave me a pamphlet on "getting to know the Sikh religion." I kept it and I did read parts of the Guru Granth and did some basic research. The rest I made up as I went along. I find it's important to do cursory research but for fiction if I research too much, I get too bogged down by so much surplus information it overwhelms the possibility of writing on it. But children of immigrants have an unusual position - one foot in their parents' country and customs and one foot in America. I liked that rickety balancing act.
How do you define the "downtown" scene? Or at least in the world of "Lightning People," what is it?
I wanted "Lightning People" to reflect New York as it is, not some fantasy glossy version filled with endless shopping excursions, Champagne brunches and the worst thing that could happen is sometimes you fall in love and you shed a few tears. To me, this immensely popular, utterly delusional version of New York is the real science fiction today. New York is hard, mean, ruthless and sometimes desperate, and the worst thing that could happen is you might become a demon like William. To be honest, I'd rather be William than someone whose idea of a full day constitutes being drowned in merchandise. That said, New York is the best city on earth and I would never live anywhere else. And I hope I captured some of the magic of the downtown scene - incredibly smart, ambitious people trying their hardest to survive and make things work. And sometimes there is glamor to it, but I've always liked glamor with some rips and dirt on it.
Are you working on your next novel yet?
As soon as I get off the book tour, I'm going to sit down and start my second novel. You can't wait for perfect inspiration. At least I can't. I just have to pick a story and start on Page 1. At first I figured I should write a second novel that takes place somewhere besides New York. I was thinking of setting it in a Central American country. But actually in the end I think I'm going to stick to somewhere a little more local. I've always wanted to do a murder mystery.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); LITERATURE (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%) Christopher Bollen; Lightning People; Books and Literature; Writing and Writers; Manhattan (NYC); Books; Culture

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



860 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1922 words

HEADLINE: Recounting the Dead

BYLINE: J. DAVID HACKER


HIGHLIGHT: How many people really died because of the Civil War? And why does it matter? 

 BODY:
Even as Civil War history has gone through several cycles of revision, one thing has remained fixed: the number of dead. Since about 1900, historians and the general public have assumed that 618,222 men died on both sides. That number is probably a significant undercount, however. New estimates, based on Census data, indicate that the death toll was approximately 750,000, and may have been as high as 850,000. 
The notion that we've drastically undercounted the Civil War dead is not a new idea: in fact, Francis Amasa Walker, superintendent of the 1870 Census, estimated that the number of male deaths was "not less than 850,000." So how did the lower number come to be the accepted count - and why does it matter that it was wrong?
Efforts to identify, rebury and count the dead began as soon as the war ended. A precise count proved impossible, however: both armies lacked systematic procedures to identify the dead, wounded and missing in action, as well as an official means to notify relatives of a soldier's death. Men went missing; battle, hospital and prison reports were incomplete and inaccurate; dead men were buried unidentified; and family members were forced to infer the fate of a loved one from his failure to return home after the war.
Instead, postwar counts of the Union dead drew from regimental muster-out rolls and battle reports. An 1866 report compiled under the direction of Provost Marshal General James B. Fry estimated that 279,689 men in the Union forces died in the war. The estimated death toll increased to 360,222 by the late 19th century, partly as a result of widows and orphans bringing forward information when applying for pensions and survivors' benefits. 
But a direct count of the Confederate dead proved impossible. The destruction of the Confederate army and many of its records limited investigators to partial counts. The Fry report documented just 133,821 Confederate deaths from incomplete returns. That number didn't change much: since Confederate widows and orphans were ineligible for federal benefits, the estimate was never supplemented with information from survivors. 
Francis Amasa Walker's interest in estimating the number of war-related deaths was a result of the 1870 Census returns. The final Census count put the population at 38,558,371, up just 22.6 percent from the count in 1860. All previous 19th-century censuses had documented decennial growth rates between 32.7 percent and 36.4 percent, a near-constant rate of increase that 19th-century Americans had come to expect and celebrate as a measure of the nation's strength, progress and future prosperity.
The 31-year-old superintendent was understandably defensive. City boosters in Philadelphia and New York had charged the 1870 enumeration with excessive coverage errors, and President Grant had taken the unusual step of ordering a recount of those cities. Although the second counts failed to turn up many additional residents, the Census remained suspect. After all, if past growth patterns had continued, the population should have been 41.5 million. Had the Census somehow missed 3 million people?
Walker acknowledged that the 1870 census was far from perfect, but he refused to concede that it was more deficient in its coverage of the population than preceding censuses. Instead, he reasoned, the war was to blame. The disappointing growth rate, he countered, was the result of the "notorious and palpable effects of the war, which hampered the growth of the black population, checked immigration, limited marriages and births and led to the direct loss of close to a million men."
Although the Surgeon General's Office had at that point documented 304,000 Union deaths, Walker noted that the number was based only on those men who died during their terms of service. About a third of the 285,000 men discharged for disabilities and many of the remaining 2 million men who survived the war, he argued, subsequently died as a result of diseases and wounds contracted while in the Army. "Tens of thousands were discharged to die; tens of thousands died within the first few months after discharge," he wrote. "Tens of thousands more lingered through the first or second year." Together with the losses calculated by the Surgeon General's Office, Walker concluded that "500,000 will surely be a moderate estimate for the direct losses among the Union armies."
Walker's estimate of Confederate losses was necessarily rougher. He started with a guess at the number of men participating - about half of the aggregate number participating on the Union side - and his assumption that Confederate soldiers' longer average terms of service and relative lack of nourishing food, medicine and skilled physicians resulted in a greater risk of death. "Without attempting to deal at all nicely with this subject," he argued, "it is difficult to see how anyone could, upon reflection, place the losses of the confederate armies at less than 350,000 men."
Unfortunately, Walker did not pursue the line of inquiry further. After his reappointment as superintendent for the 1880 Census, he had to explain the overly rapid growth of the South's population between 1870 and 1880 and defend the Census from charges of fraud in the form of over-counting. After a field investigation by the Census geographer Henry Gannett failed to turn up any evidence of fraud, suspicion returned to the 1870 census. Gannett charged that many of the 1870 enumerators were appointed for their Republican political connections, not for their local knowledge or ability to conduct a census. The inevitable result, he concluded, was a large undercount. 
This time Walker agreed. Having been successful in pushing through many costly reforms for the 1880 census, one of which was to shift enumeration responsibilities from federal marshals answerable to the Justice Department to a much larger field force selected for their qualifications and answerable to the Census Office, Walker must have felt some measure of justification from Gannett's report.
But with the census discredited - a crude calculation by the 1890 census office subsequently indicated that the 1870 Census had undercounted the South's population by 1,260,078 (10 percent of the region's and 3 percent of the nation's population) - the opportunity for a more comprehensive examination of the war's human cost was lost to the political winds. The estimate of 360,222 Union deaths stood.
The count of Confederate dead was, however, heavily debated. William F. Fox, a private citizen and Union army veteran whose 1889 book on regimental losses remains a classic reference work for Civil War historians, relied on battle reports and unofficial estimates to obtain a total of 94,000 Confederate battle deaths. He complained, however, that records were incomplete, especially during the last year of the war, and that battlefield reports likely under-counted deaths (many men counted as wounded in battlefield reports subsequently died of their wounds). In 1900 Thomas L. Livermore, who, like Fox, was a private citizen and Union army veteran, put the number of Confederate non-combat deaths at 164,000, using the official estimate of Union deaths from disease and accidents and a comparison of Union and Confederate enlistment records. 
Livermore's estimate assumed Union and Confederate troops suffered an equal risk of death from disease, a conservative assumption that Walker had explicitly rejected. Despite acknowledging that his estimate of disease mortality likely undercounted Confederate deaths and his concern that Fox's estimate of battle deaths could "be accepted only as a minimum," Livermore combined the two estimates to arrive at a total of 258,000 Confederate deaths, a total that remains unrevised more than a century later. 
So why should we now doubt that number? For one thing, Fry, Walker, Fox, Livermore and other early investigators were limited by the quality of the data available. Using new quantitative sources, we can now make a more comprehensive and accurate estimate of war-related deaths. With one exception, microfilm copies of the original manuscript returns have been preserved for all censuses since 1850 (the 1890 Census manuscripts were lost in a fire). Census microdata samples created from these returns at the Minnesota Population Center make it possible to estimate undercounts by age and sex in censuses back to 1850 and to construct a Census-based estimate of male deaths caused by the war.
Census undercounts are estimated using multiple censuses and a demographic method known as back projection. The results confirm that, indeed, the 1870 Census was the most poorly enumerated. It was not nearly as bad as Walker feared and as 1890 census officials charged, however: the net undercount was 6.5 percent in 1870, compared to 6.0 percent in 1850, 5.5 percent in 1860, and 3.6 percent in 1880. 
War-related losses are estimated by comparing sex differences in mortality during the 1860s with sex differences in mortality in the 1850s and 1870s. The results indicate that the war was responsible for the deaths of about 750,000 men (using less conservative assumptions, the total may have been as high as 850,000). Although that estimate is 100,000 fewer than the 850,000 deaths suggested by Walker, it is closer to his guess than it is to traditional estimate of 618,222 deaths, which has been cited uncritically for too long. If the Census-based estimate is correct, the traditional estimate is about 20 percent too low. 
Although there are limitations to using Census data to estimate of Civil War mortality - civilian deaths are too few to be measured accurately, and deaths cannot be reliably divided into Union or Confederate subtotals - the method provides a more complete assessment of the war's human cost. In addition to the men who died during their terms of service, the Census-based estimate of male mortality includes men who died between the date of their discharge and the 1870 Census from diseases and wounds contracted during the war, as well as non-enlisted men who died in guerilla warfare and other war-related violence. It excludes, however, men dying from war-related causes who would have died under the normal mortality conditions of the late 19th century. This final group, included in all direct counts of the Civil War dead, represents about 80,000 men. 
So what? Above a certain count, do the numbers even matter? Well, yes. The difference between the two estimates is large enough to change the way we look at the war. The new estimate suggests that more men died as a result of the Civil War than from all other American wars combined. Approximately 1 in 10 white men of military age in 1860 died from the conflict, a substantial increase from the 1 in 13 implied by the traditional estimate. The death toll is also one of our most important measures of the war's social and economic costs. A higher death toll, for example, implies that more women were widowed and more children were orphaned as a result of the war than has long been suspected. 
In other words, the war touched more lives and communities more deeply than we thought, and thus shaped the course of the ensuing decades of American history in ways we have not yet fully grasped. True, the war was terrible in either case. But just how terrible, and just how extensive its consequences, can only be known when we have a better count of the Civil War dead.

        
Great-Aunt Hattie's 'Little Book'
        
'No Language Like Song'
        
Rumors of Revolt
        
Exploding Kansas
        
Julia Marcum's Civil War

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); HISTORY (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); ARMIES (90%); CENSUS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%) Census; Population; the civil war; Civil War (US) (1861-65); Deaths (Fatalities); Disunion

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



861 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: Sampling the Tastes of the Civil War

BYLINE: JAMES BARRON


HIGHLIGHT: At a Midtown hotel, diners tried out recipes from the years when the country was ripped apart by the War Between the States. 

 BODY:
Daniel Mowles preparing roasted rabbits for a tasting of Civil War-era food at the Roger Smith Hotel on Monday. The chef, it turned out, was from southwest Virginia and grew up in a household that, he said, had inherited some of Robert E. Lee's silverware.
 Those were just coincidences at a tasting of dishes from the Civil War era, prepared according to recipes adapted from cookbooks published between 1861 and 1865.
Here was another coincidence. The tasting was organized by Andrew F. Smith, a faculty member at the New School and the editor in chief of the Oxford Encyclopedia of Food and Drink in America, who said he was distantly related to a Miss Leslie.
He said she was famous among culinary historians as a 19th-century cookbook writer from Philadelphia. And it was her stewed mutton chops that were on the tasting menu, right after "Captain Sanderson's boiled pork-and-bean soup" and before "Mrs. Haskell's 1861 mashed potatoes." That accompanied the roast rabbit. 
The tasting, on Monday, took place at a New York hotel, the Roger Smith, on Lexington Avenue. Mr. Smith and the chef, Daniel Mowles, tried for balance between North and South, so there was fried catfish with "Confederate catsup" to offset the rabbit, which was served with "Boston mustard." 
 Before the tasting, Mr. Smith had trouble explaining his affinity for the Civil War.
He grew up in Southern California - "no battlefields around," he said. He said his great-grandfather might have fought in the Civil War, but the family "never talked about it." But he said the first 10 books he read as a child were about the Civil War, as is the latest of the 15 he has written: "Starving the South: How the North Won the Civil War," published in April.
 It describes how the nation went from a local to a national culinary economy during the war and how the North used food to its advantage - but the South did not.
 "In the South, the pre-eminent agricultural region," he said, "they didn't have the bureaucrats the North had who could organize the food system, who could say, 'If we don't make basic decisions about food we're not going to make it through a long war.' So you had starvation and riots. I've got records of at least 40 riots that occurred, mainly in Southern cities, particularly with women whose husbands were in the Army and were small landowners. They couldn't plant crops and they didn't have the manpower to do the things necessary to keep them alive by the end of the war."
That contributed to food shortages that hampered the Confederates. The North singled out Southern port cities and cut off the South's imports of food - imports that were essential because Southern planters continued to grow their profitable cotton and tobacco crops rather than switch to food crops. Mr. Smith said the Confederate Army grew thin while Union soldiers ate well.
"Where the Union Army occupied Confederate areas," he said, "they made those same foods available to virtually anyone who would sign an oath of allegiance to the United States. Even when Sherman marched through Georgia and North Carolina, they destroyed food but they also made it available. It was a strange mixture of abundance and organization and trying to get the Southerners back into the union - and food was one of the ways they did it."
He said that 60,000 Confederate solders deserted in the last four months. "The No. 1 reason was they didn't have food," he said.
No. 2, he said, was they did not have money - which they could have used to buy food. And No. 3, based on letters from soldiers' families that he read in his research, was, "We're going to starve unless you come home and help us plant."
So the deserters "voted with their stomachs, and voted for their families," he said.
The North even created a holiday that featured food - Thanksgiving. It was, Mr. Smith says, the nation's third national holiday, after Washington's Birthday and Independence Day. Lincoln established it in 1864, Mr. Smith said, and Northerners sent turkeys, pies and puddings to Union soldiers.
In the kitchen at the Roger Smith, Mr. Mowles, the hotel's executive chef, had equipment the soldiers did not, like a six-burner Vulcan stove with a griddle and an exhaust hood. He also had memories from growing up in Virginia.
"We'd eat spoonbread a lot," he said, "and a lot of fried chicken. And we have Robert E. Lee's silverware that we eat on at Thanksgiving. It's engraved. Somebody in our family was a doctor. After the war, Lee became poor and couldn't pay his medical bills." 
 So what did the food at the tasting taste like? More like a modern meal than you might expect, according to Mr. Smith.
One reason was that Mr. Mowles had decided not to use lard. "Lard was America's No. 1 frying ingredient," Mr. Smith said. "It would have been used in everything where today we'd use vegetable oil or butter. He put butter in a lot of the biscuits, where historically they would have used lard."
 Mr. Smith said the biscuits were drier than 21st century biscuits. "They weren't using preservatives, so it was make 'em and eat 'em," Mr. Smith said. 
And some of the items on the menu were far less sweet than if they had been made from contemporary recipes. "The apple pie had much less sugar," Mr. Smith said. "Even in the 1860s, while sugar was plentiful, food would not have been as sweet as we love it today. And he didn't put as much salt in. Historically, it all would have had a great deal more salt."
 The rabbit, Mr. Smith said, was closer to what rabbit would have tasted like in the Civil War.
 "It almost tasted like chicken," Mr. Smith said after the tasting. "He did it by broiling it, so many of the juices dropped out. It was not stringy, particularly, but it was less juicy, and that was the correct way."

        
Table 1 at Elaine's Is Available. Art Is for Sale, Too.
        
Confederate General Buried Far From the Battlefield
        
Way Back Machine | The Zouaves Depart
        
It's Called Restaurant Week, but It Won't Stop at One
        
A New School Professor in Search of a Class

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NON FICTION LITERATURE (91%); CIVIL WAR (90%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); STARVATION (89%); HISTORY (78%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); WRITERS (76%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (72%) Andrew F. Smith; Civil War; Daniel Mowles; Food and Drink; Smith, Andrew F; Civil War (US) (1861-65); Cooking and Cookbooks; Food; Shortages; Southern States (US); Mowles, Daniel; Offbeat

PERSON: Smith, Andrew F

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHEAST USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Southern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



862 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: Financial District Protests Continue as 7 More Are Arrested

BYLINE: ROB HARRIS


HIGHLIGHT: Demonstrators against the economic system have refused police orders to disperse from Zuccotti Park in lower Manhattan. A video posted by the demonstrators shows one of the arrests. 

 BODY:
Seven protesters were arrested on Tuesday downtown in Zuccotti Park in the continuing unrest in the financial district, the police said. 
Those arrested included people accused of using a bullhorn without a permit, refusing police orders to disperse, trying to prevent officers from removing a tarp that had been put up in the park in violation of the sanitary code, and resisting arrest. 
On Tuesday evening, the police said that 16 people had been arrested since the protests began on Saturday.
A video posted on YouTube shows a man in Zuccotti Park, at Broadway and Liberty Street, being held on the ground by two officers while he appears to be having an asthma attack. "I can't breathe," he tells the officers. "Get off of my lungs. You can cuff me. Let me breathe. I need my inhaler." 
The man who filmed the police action - who said he was an activist, Iraq war veteran and law student and insisted that his name not be used out of fear of retribution by the police - said that at around 9:30 a.m., a group of officers, led by an officer "with four stars on his collar" pulled out batons and moved in on the protesters who have occupied the park. 
In the video, protesters encouraged those arrested to shout out their names so they could pass the names on to the National Lawyers Guild, which is providing legal assistance.
"Jason Ahmadi," shouted one man as he was dragged by his feet to the curb and then cuffed with plastic handcuffs that he complained cut off circulation in his hands. He was then dragged to a police van.
The protester who complained that he couldn't breathe was later lifted to his feet by officers and then walked to the police van under his own power.
In other protest news, six people were arrested near the United Nations on Tuesday, the police said, over entirely different circumstances -- demonstrations against Palestine's anticipated application to join the United Nations. The six protesters were issued disorderly conduct summonses charging them with blocking traffic and disregarding police instructions.

        
Wall Street Protesters Broadcast Arrests on Social Media
        
Wall St. Protests Continue, With Arrests at Morning March
        
Park Gives Wall St. Protesters a Place to Call Home
        
80 Arrested as Financial District Protest Moves North
        
TimesCast: Wall Street Protests Continue

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); LOITERING & VAGRANCY (89%); RIOTS (78%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (78%); LICENSES & PERMITS (77%); ASTHMA (74%); PARKING OFFENSES (73%); SOCIAL MEDIA (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); IRAQ WAR (68%) Occupy Wall Street; protests; Wall Street; Wall Street protests; Banking and Financial Institutions; Demonstrations, Protests, and Riots; Financial District (NYC); Crime & Public Safety

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LAWYERS GUILD (54%) Occupy Wall Street

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) Financial District (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2011



863 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1950 words

HEADLINE: Recounting the Dead

BYLINE: J. DAVID HACKER


HIGHLIGHT: How many people really died because of the Civil War? And why does it matter? 

 BODY:
Even as Civil War history has gone through several cycles of revision, one thing has remained fixed: the number of dead. Since about 1900, historians and the general public have assumed that 618,222 men died on both sides. That number is probably a significant undercount, however. New estimates, based on Census data, indicate that the death toll was approximately 750,000, and may have been as high as 850,000. 
The notion that we've drastically undercounted the Civil War dead is not a new idea: in fact, Francis Amasa Walker, superintendent of the 1870 Census, estimated that the number of male deaths was "not less than 850,000." So how did the lower number come to be the accepted count - and why does it matter that it was wrong?
Efforts to identify, rebury and count the dead began as soon as the war ended. A precise count proved impossible, however: both armies lacked systematic procedures to identify the dead, wounded and missing in action, as well as an official means to notify relatives of a soldier's death. Men went missing; battle, hospital and prison reports were incomplete and inaccurate; dead men were buried unidentified; and family members were forced to infer the fate of a loved one from his failure to return home after the war.
Instead, postwar counts of the Union dead drew from regimental muster-out rolls and battle reports. An 1866 report compiled under the direction of Provost Marshal General James B. Fry estimated that 279,689 men in the Union forces died in the war. The estimated death toll increased to 360,222 by the late 19th century, partly as a result of widows and orphans bringing forward information when applying for pensions and survivors' benefits. 
But a direct count of the Confederate dead proved impossible. The destruction of the Confederate army and many of its records limited investigators to partial counts. The Fry report documented just 133,821 Confederate deaths from incomplete returns. That number didn't change much: since Confederate widows and orphans were ineligible for federal benefits, the estimate was never supplemented with information from survivors. 
Francis Amasa Walker's interest in estimating the number of war-related deaths was a result of the 1870 Census returns. The final Census count put the population at 38,558,371, up just 22.6 percent from the count in 1860. All previous 19th-century censuses had documented decennial growth rates between 32.7 percent and 36.4 percent, a near-constant rate of increase that 19th-century Americans had come to expect and celebrate as a measure of the nation's strength, progress and future prosperity.
The 31-year-old superintendent was understandably defensive. City boosters in Philadelphia and New York had charged the 1870 enumeration with excessive coverage errors, and President Grant had taken the unusual step of ordering a recount of those cities. Although the second counts failed to turn up many additional residents, the Census remained suspect. After all, if past growth patterns had continued, the population should have been 41.5 million. Had the Census somehow missed 3 million people?
Walker acknowledged that the 1870 census was far from perfect, but he refused to concede that it was more deficient in its coverage of the population than preceding censuses. Instead, he reasoned, the war was to blame. The disappointing growth rate, he countered, was the result of the "notorious and palpable effects of the war, which hampered the growth of the black population, checked immigration, limited marriages and births and led to the direct loss of close to a million men."
Although the Surgeon General's Office had at that point documented 304,000 Union deaths, Walker noted that the number was based only on those men who died during their terms of service. About a third of the 285,000 men discharged for disabilities and many of the remaining 2 million men who survived the war, he argued, subsequently died as a result of diseases and wounds contracted while in the Army. "Tens of thousands were discharged to die; tens of thousands died within the first few months after discharge," he wrote. "Tens of thousands more lingered through the first or second year." Together with the losses calculated by the Surgeon General's Office, Walker concluded that "500,000 will surely be a moderate estimate for the direct losses among the Union armies."
Walker's estimate of Confederate losses was necessarily rougher. He started with a guess at the number of men participating - about half of the aggregate number participating on the Union side - and his assumption that Confederate soldiers' longer average terms of service and relative lack of nourishing food, medicine and skilled physicians resulted in a greater risk of death. "Without attempting to deal at all nicely with this subject," he argued, "it is difficult to see how anyone could, upon reflection, place the losses of the confederate armies at less than 350,000 men."
Unfortunately, Walker did not pursue the line of inquiry further. After his reappointment as superintendent for the 1880 Census, he had to explain the overly rapid growth of the South's population between 1870 and 1880 and defend the Census from charges of fraud in the form of over-counting. After a field investigation by the Census geographer Henry Gannett failed to turn up any evidence of fraud, suspicion returned to the 1870 census. Gannett charged that many of the 1870 enumerators were appointed for their Republican political connections, not for their local knowledge or ability to conduct a census. The inevitable result, he concluded, was a large undercount. 
This time Walker agreed. Having been successful in pushing through many costly reforms for the 1880 census, one of which was to shift enumeration responsibilities from federal marshals answerable to the Justice Department to a much larger field force selected for their qualifications and answerable to the Census Office, Walker must have felt some measure of justification from Gannett's report.
But with the census discredited - a crude calculation by the 1890 census office subsequently indicated that the 1870 Census had undercounted the South's population by 1,260,078 (10 percent of the region's and 3 percent of the nation's population) - the opportunity for a more comprehensive examination of the war's human cost was lost to the political winds. The estimate of 360,222 Union deaths stood.
The count of Confederate dead was, however, heavily debated. William F. Fox, a private citizen and Union army veteran whose 1889 book on regimental losses remains a classic reference work for Civil War historians, relied on battle reports and unofficial estimates to obtain a total of 94,000 Confederate battle deaths. He complained, however, that records were incomplete, especially during the last year of the war, and that battlefield reports likely under-counted deaths (many men counted as wounded in battlefield reports subsequently died of their wounds). In 1900 Thomas L. Livermore, who, like Fox, was a private citizen and Union army veteran, put the number of Confederate non-combat deaths at 164,000, using the official estimate of Union deaths from disease and accidents and a comparison of Union and Confederate enlistment records. 
Livermore's estimate assumed Union and Confederate troops suffered an equal risk of death from disease, a conservative assumption that Walker had explicitly rejected. Despite acknowledging that his estimate of disease mortality likely undercounted Confederate deaths and his concern that Fox's estimate of battle deaths could "be accepted only as a minimum," Livermore combined the two estimates to arrive at a total of 258,000 Confederate deaths, a total that remains unrevised more than a century later. 
So why should we now doubt that number? For one thing, Fry, Walker, Fox, Livermore and other early investigators were limited by the quality of the data available. Using new quantitative sources, we can now make a more comprehensive and accurate estimate of war-related deaths. With one exception, microfilm copies of the original manuscript returns have been preserved for all censuses since 1850 (the 1890 Census manuscripts were lost in a fire). Census microdata samples created from these returns at the Minnesota Population Center make it possible to estimate undercounts by age and sex in censuses back to 1850 and to construct a Census-based estimate of male deaths caused by the war.
Census undercounts are estimated using multiple censuses and a demographic method known as back projection. The results confirm that, indeed, the 1870 Census was the most poorly enumerated. It was not nearly as bad as Walker feared and as 1890 census officials charged, however: the net undercount was 6.5 percent in 1870, compared to 6.0 percent in 1850, 5.5 percent in 1860, and 3.6 percent in 1880. 
War-related losses are estimated by comparing sex differences in mortality during the 1860s with sex differences in mortality in the 1850s and 1870s. The results indicate that the war was responsible for the deaths of about 750,000 men (using less conservative assumptions, the total may have been as high as 850,000). Although that estimate is 100,000 fewer than the 850,000 deaths suggested by Walker, it is closer to his guess than it is to traditional estimate of 618,222 deaths, which has been cited uncritically for too long. If the Census-based estimate is correct, the traditional estimate is about 20 percent too low. 
Although there are limitations to using Census data to estimate of Civil War mortality - civilian deaths are too few to be measured accurately, and deaths cannot be reliably divided into Union or Confederate subtotals - the method provides a more complete assessment of the war's human cost. In addition to the men who died during their terms of service, the Census-based estimate of male mortality includes men who died between the date of their discharge and the 1870 Census from diseases and wounds contracted during the war, as well as non-enlisted men who died in guerilla warfare and other war-related violence. It excludes, however, men dying from war-related causes who would have died under the normal mortality conditions of the late 19th century. This final group, included in all direct counts of the Civil War dead, represents about 80,000 men. 
So what? Above a certain count, do the numbers even matter? Well, yes. The difference between the two estimates is large enough to change the way we look at the war. The new estimate suggests that more men died as a result of the Civil War than from all other American wars combined. Approximately 1 in 10 white men of military age in 1860 died from the conflict, a substantial increase from the 1 in 13 implied by the traditional estimate. The death toll is also one of our most important measures of the war's social and economic costs. A higher death toll, for example, implies that more women were widowed and more children were orphaned as a result of the war than has long been suspected. 
In other words, the war touched more lives and communities more deeply than we thought, and thus shaped the course of the ensuing decades of American history in ways we have not yet fully grasped. True, the war was terrible in either case. But just how terrible, and just how extensive its consequences, can only be known when we have a better count of the Civil War dead.

        
Great-Aunt Hattie's 'Little Book'
        
'No Language Like Song'
        
Rumors of Revolt
        
Exploding Kansas
        
Julia Marcum's Civil War
http://graphics8.nytimes.com/images/2011/09/21/opinion/21disunion-img/21disunion-img-articleInline.jpgFrancis Amasa WalkerUnited States Census Bureau History Staff

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); HISTORY (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); ARMIES (90%); CENSUS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%) Census; Population; the civil war; Civil War (US) (1861-65); Deaths (Fatalities); Disunion

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



864 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1354 words

HEADLINE: The Health Payoffs of Time Banks

BYLINE: TINA ROSENBERG


HIGHLIGHT: Time banks can help provide a level of preventive care that the current health care system can not. 

 BODY:
Friday's Fixes post about time banks resonated with readers. Time banks are local organizations that allow people to use their skills to help others by exchanging hours instead of money. You earn time dollars by, say, taking a neighbor to the doctor, and spend those time dollars on the same number of hours' worth of other services, such as computer repair or singing lessons. Strikingly, very few readers talked about what they could get from time banks; most responded to the possibility of giving. "The chance to help others and feel good about myself makes the bargain seem better than I thought possible," wrote Ajasys from Vancouver, Wash. (41) - a typical comment.
Those who were wary of the idea raised two points.One was the worry that the Internal Revenue Service would swoop in. But while some forms of barter are taxable, the I.R.S. has ruled that time dollars are not - because they value all work equally, work is done for a charitable purpose, and the exchange is informal and non-contractual. Other readers brought up the many possible market confusions caused by the equal valuation of all work. One reader, A from Jefferson (46) posed several questions: "It's April 15th, and tax returns are due before the post office closes today in an hour. There are ten people who still haven't done their returns and don't know how to. There is only one person involved with the time bank who can do tax returns. Which of the ten does he help for the standing rate of one time dollar per hour? Is it reasonable for someone who needs the service to try and outbid the others by offering more than one time dollar for the service?"
As Shana from Belingham (48) replies to that writer, "You have majorly missed the point." A time bank is not simply the American economy in all its glory, with hours instead of dollars. Members cannot choose to offer more than one time dollar: credits get issued by the time bank at the same rate for everyone. Anyone interested in gaming the system is probably not a good candidate for time bank membership. As the stories of people in time banks and many comments showed, time banks work in large part on trust and goodwill. No, you can't run an economy that way. But it's the main appeal of a time bank.
Other readers wanted information on how to set up time banks in their communities. Here are some useful Web sites: TimeBanks and Time Banking UK are umbrella organizations of time banks in America and Britain. Partners in Care and Dane County TimeBank are sites for two particularly successful time banks, one near Baltimore and one in Madison, Wisc.
Although many time banks are run by neighborhood volunteer organizations, people interested in setting up a time bank might want to make their case to a local health care organization. Friday's Fixes reported on the time bank run by the Visiting Nurse Service of New York. Elderplan, a New York health insurance company, also runs a time bank for members. Hospitals such as the Lehigh Valley Health Network, based in Allentown, Pa., run time banks. In Britain, even private medical practices have established time banks. At Rushey Green Group Practice in London, Dr. Richard Byng was convinced that what many of his patients needed wasn't medication, but friends, social connections and a way to feel useful and valued. Now doctors there routinely prescribe that patients join the Rushey Green Time Bank.
Health organizations like time banks because they believe that time banks make people feel better - and cut the cost of health care. In Richmond, Va., for example, a time bank program to provide social support to people with asthma cut emergency admissions to hospitals and the cost of treating asthma by more than 70 percent.
One way time banks help is with simple practical aid. Imagine an elderly woman who has just left the hospital, where she received expensive high-tech care for her heart condition. But once discharged, she is too frail to go out to buy groceries. There is no one to fill her prescriptions, fix her leaky roof, make sure she takes her medicines correctly. She cannot take the bus herself and doesn't have the money to hire a taxi to get to a follow-up doctor's appointment.
Medicaid and Medicare do not pay for what is not directly medical, but non-medical challenges such as these can land her back in the hospital - and this time, the hospital will likely not be reimbursed for the cost of her stay, which should give that hospital considerable incentive to help her solve these problems. In the long run, the availability of help with these tasks can mean the difference between staying in her home and going to a nursing home. When the Visiting Nurse Service TimeBank surveyed its older members, a whopping 79 percent felt the TimeBank would give them resources they would need to be able to stay in their homes as they aged.
Millions of people in America don't have transportation to get to medical appointments. A study published by the Transportation Research Board, an organization funded largely by state and federal transportation agencies, found that providing rides to non-emergency medical appointments was cost effective for every condition studied - especially for asthma, pre-natal care, heart disease and diabetes. Regular visits from neighbors can also catch early signs of serious problems. One time bank, for example, asked people who worked with diabetics to pay special attention to early signs of glaucoma.
The value of time banks, however, goes beyond practical assistance. The mental and physical health benefits of social connection have been proven in voluminous research. In his book "Bowling Alone: The Collapse and Revival of American Community," Robert Putnam writes that joining a group cuts a person's odds of dying next year by half. It's as good for you as quitting smoking.
Lehigh Valley Health Network began its Community Exchange time bank as a way for senior citizens to feel more connected to the community. "If you're lonely, or looking for someone to come play bridge, this is not covered by social services," said Laura Gutierrez, who manages Community Exchange. That companionship, she said, "makes people feel more empowered to recover at home." A survey of 160 of its members last year found that the time bank improved members' health mainly by creating a sense of belonging, and was particularly helpful for low-income people and those living alone.
Three years ago, the Paxton Green Group Practice in the Lambeth neighborhood of south London decided to set up a time bank. One of the reasons was patients' alarming rate of diabetes. Doctors saw a very direct connection between patients' self-esteem and their ability to make needed behavior changes. "It is very hard to change the way you look at food and exercise," said Tyrell Evans, one of the doctors. "Working with time banks, where everyone is valued and everyone has assets, helps people to revalue themselves. Only when you start to feel that positivity about yourself you feel more able to take on these challenges."
Time banks promote a broader vision of health, one less focused on high-tech medicine and doctors' expertise and more attuned to people's social and human needs. "It's not walking out of a doctor's office with a list of 20 things and feeling overwhelmed," said Kathryn Haslanger, Senior Vice President for Community Benefit at the Visiting Nurse Service of New York. It's a walking group, a cooking group. It takes it out of the medical dynamic."
What would persuade more hospitals and insurers to establish time banks? Data, perhaps. The asthma study was the only study of the health cost savings of time banking I could find. Though the time bank movement is based on mutual helping and trust, it might find a huge coalition of allies and sponsors if its benefits can be put into terms that insurers and hospitals can understand and appreciate - by that, I mean cash dollars, not time.

        
The Thins Versus the Fats
        
For Many, a Life-Saving Drug Out of Reach
        
Belly Up to the Bistro
        
Trying to Live Forever
        
Can Big Food Regulate Itself? Fat Chance

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); NURSES & NURSING (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (77%); WRITERS (74%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (68%); DIABETES (59%) health; health care; time banks; Diabetes; Elderly; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicine and Health; Visiting Nurse Service; Fixes

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%) Visiting Nurse Service

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (50%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2011



865 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: Sampling the Tastes of the Civil War

BYLINE: JAMES BARRON


HIGHLIGHT: At a Midtown hotel, diners tried out recipes from the years when the country was ripped apart by the War Between the States. 

 BODY:
Daniel Mowles preparing roasted rabbits for a tasting of Civil War-era food at the Roger Smith Hotel on Monday. The chef, it turned out, was from southwest Virginia and grew up in a household that, he said, had inherited some of Robert E. Lee's silverware.
 Those were just coincidences at a tasting of dishes from the Civil War era, prepared according to recipes adapted from cookbooks published between 1861 and 1865.
Here was another coincidence. The tasting was organized by Andrew F. Smith, a faculty member at the New School and the editor in chief of the Oxford Encyclopedia of Food and Drink in America, who said he was distantly related to a Miss Leslie.
He said she was famous among culinary historians as a 19th-century cookbook writer from Philadelphia. And it was her stewed mutton chops that were on the tasting menu, right after "Captain Sanderson's boiled pork-and-bean soup" and before "Mrs. Haskell's 1861 mashed potatoes." That accompanied the roast rabbit. 
The tasting, on Monday, took place at a New York hotel, the Roger Smith, on Lexington Avenue. Mr. Smith and the chef, Daniel Mowles, tried for balance between North and South, so there was fried catfish with "Confederate catsup" to offset the rabbit, which was served with "Boston mustard." 
 Before the tasting, Mr. Smith had trouble explaining his affinity for the Civil War.
He grew up in Southern California - "no battlefields around," he said. He said his great-grandfather might have fought in the Civil War, but the family "never talked about it." But he said the first 10 books he read as a child were about the Civil War, as is the latest of the 15 he has written: "Starving the South: How the North Won the Civil War," published in April.
 It describes how the nation went from a local to a national culinary economy during the war and how the North used food to its advantage - but the South did not.
 "In the South, the pre-eminent agricultural region," he said, "they didn't have the bureaucrats the North had who could organize the food system, who could say, 'If we don't make basic decisions about food we're not going to make it through a long war.' So you had starvation and riots. I've got records of at least 40 riots that occurred, mainly in Southern cities, particularly with women whose husbands were in the Army and were small landowners. They couldn't plant crops and they didn't have the manpower to do the things necessary to keep them alive by the end of the war."
That contributed to food shortages that hampered the Confederates. The North singled out Southern port cities and cut off the South's imports of food - imports that were essential because Southern planters continued to grow their profitable cotton and tobacco crops rather than switch to food crops. Mr. Smith said the Confederate Army grew thin while Union soldiers ate well.
"Where the Union Army occupied Confederate areas," he said, "they made those same foods available to virtually anyone who would sign an oath of allegiance to the United States. Even when Sherman marched through Georgia and North Carolina, they destroyed food but they also made it available. It was a strange mixture of abundance and organization and trying to get the Southerners back into the union - and food was one of the ways they did it."
He said that 60,000 Confederate solders deserted in the last four months. "The No. 1 reason was they didn't have food," he said.
No. 2, he said, was they did not have money - which they could have used to buy food. And No. 3, based on letters from soldiers' families that he read in his research, was, "We're going to starve unless you come home and help us plant."
So the deserters "voted with their stomachs, and voted for their families," he said.
The North even created a holiday that featured food - Thanksgiving. It was, Mr. Smith says, the nation's third national holiday, after Washington's Birthday and Independence Day. Lincoln established it in 1864, Mr. Smith said, and Northerners sent turkeys, pies and puddings to Union soldiers.
In the kitchen at the Roger Smith, Mr. Mowles, the hotel's executive chef, had equipment the soldiers did not, like a six-burner Vulcan stove with a griddle and an exhaust hood. He also had memories from growing up in Virginia.
"We'd eat spoonbread a lot," he said, "and a lot of fried chicken. And we have Robert E. Lee's silverware that we eat on at Thanksgiving. It's engraved. Somebody in our family was a doctor. After the war, Lee became poor and couldn't pay his medical bills." 
 So what did the food at the tasting taste like? More like a modern meal than you might expect, according to Mr. Smith.
One reason was that Mr. Mowles had decided not to use lard. "Lard was America's No. 1 frying ingredient," Mr. Smith said. "It would have been used in everything where today we'd use vegetable oil or butter. He put butter in a lot of the biscuits, where historically they would have used lard."
 Mr. Smith said the biscuits were drier than 21st century biscuits. "They weren't using preservatives, so it was make 'em and eat 'em," Mr. Smith said. 
And some of the items on the menu were far less sweet than if they had been made from contemporary recipes. "The apple pie had much less sugar," Mr. Smith said. "Even in the 1860s, while sugar was plentiful, food would not have been as sweet as we love it today. And he didn't put as much salt in. Historically, it all would have had a great deal more salt."
 The rabbit, Mr. Smith said, was closer to what rabbit would have tasted like in the Civil War.
 "It almost tasted like chicken," Mr. Smith said after the tasting. "He did it by broiling it, so many of the juices dropped out. It was not stringy, particularly, but it was less juicy, and that was the correct way."

        
Table 1 at Elaine's Is Available. Art Is for Sale, Too.
        
Confederate General Buried Far From the Battlefield
        
Way Back Machine | The Zouaves Depart
        
It's Called Restaurant Week, but It Won't Stop at One
        
A New School Professor in Search of a Class
 http://graphics8.nytimes.com/images/2011/09/20/nyregion/20civilrabbit-cityroom/20civilrabbit-cityroom-blog480.jpgDaniel Mowles preparing roasted rabbits for a tasting of Civil War-era food at the Roger Smith hotel on Monday.Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Timeshttp://graphics8.nytimes.com/images/2011/09/20/nyregion/20civilsmith-cityroom/20civilsmith-cityroom-blogSmallInline.jpgAndrew F. Smith, the historian who organized the tasting.http://graphics8.nytimes.com/images/2011/09/20/nyregion/20civilcakes-cityroom/20civilcakes-cityroom-articleInline.jpgSouth, meet North: Johnny cake, rabbit and Boston mustard.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NON FICTION LITERATURE (91%); CIVIL WAR (90%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); STARVATION (89%); HISTORY (78%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); WRITERS (76%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (72%) Andrew F. Smith; Civil War; Daniel Mowles; Food and Drink; Smith, Andrew F; Civil War (US) (1861-65); Cooking and Cookbooks; Food; Shortages; Southern States (US); Mowles, Daniel; Offbeat

PERSON: Smith, Andrew F

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHEAST USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Southern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



866 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: Nevada's Dean Heller Gives First Senate Speech

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Channeling his inner Mark Twain, Mr. Heller called on Congress to act bravely to address the nation's problems. 

 BODY:
Senator Dean Heller, Republican of Nevada, who was promoted in the spring from the House, gave his maiden speech in the Senate on Tuesday. In a roughly 15-minute speech from the chamber floor, he channeled his inner Mark Twain and called for the lawmakers to come together to create jobs and address the government's long-term fiscal problems.
 "The truth is Washington has not done enough to get our nation back on track, and the American people know it," he said. In Nevada, where unemployment, foreclosure and bankruptcies are at record levels, voters are restless, he said.
"Nevadans do not want finger-pointing -- they want jobs," he said. "Nevadans do not want political talking points -- they want to keep their homes. Nevadans do not want to hear our promises -- they want to pass on a better future to their children."
Mr. Heller, 51, a former Nevada secretary of state and state assemblyman, was appointed by Gov. Brian Sandoval in May to replace John Ensign, who resigned amid a sex scandal. A long-time resident of Carson City, the state capital, Mr. Heller was a stockbroker before he entered politics. The House seat he left after four years was recently won by Mark Amodei, a Republican and a former state senator.
In Carson City, where Samuel Clemons began using the pen name Mark Twain, Mr. Heller said he had worked in his father's automotive shop across from the Nevada Assembly. The proximity to the state's seat of power gave him an opportunity to interact with lawmakers while the work taught him the importance of faith, hard work and family, values he said he hoped to bring to Washington. 
After quoting Mr. Twain on cowardice, he challenged Congress to act bravely, saying, "If we are going to keep America exceptional, we have to chart a new direction for our country."
Mr. Heller also paid tribute to the victims of a shooting on Sept. 8 at an IHOP restaurant in Carson City and those of a plane crash Friday at the National Air Show in Reno. He also praised the first responders to both incidents.
He joined a handful of new senators, including Marco Rubio of Florida, who waited months before addressing the Senate for the first time.

        
Alexander to Resign Senate Leadership Post
        
Elizabeth Warren Announces Senate Run
        
The Early Word: Pass This Bill
        
On Twitter, President Obama's Job Speech Drives the Conversation
        
The Vote That Delayed Obama's Speech

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAUCUSES (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); FAMILY (77%); FORECLOSURE (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); RESTAURANTS (64%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); SEX SCANDALS (52%); SCANDALS (52%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (50%) Congress; Dean Heller; Senate Republicans; The Caucus

PERSON: DEAN HELLER (93%); ELIZABETH WARREN (79%); JOHN ENSIGN (59%); MARCO RUBIO (59%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); MARK AMODEI (58%); BRIAN SANDOVAL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CARSON CITY, NV, USA (93%); RENO, NV, USA (58%) NEVADA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



867 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: Capital One Denies ING Deal Would Make It 'Too Big to Fail'

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: Consumer groups and smaller banks are warning that the $9 billion merger, if approved, could pose systemic threats to the economy. 

 BODY:
8:08 p.m. | Updated 
Capital One on Tuesday delivered a sweeping defense of its proposed $9 billion takeover of ING Direct USA, aiming to allay concerns that the deal would create another "too big to fail" banking giant.
"The acquisition of ING Direct will further reduce, rather than increase, any risk to the financial system," John Finneran, Capital One's general counsel, told the Federal Reserve, which hosted the first of three public hearings to examine the controversial deal.
Consumer groups and smaller banks, warning that the deal could pose systemic threats to the economy, cast doubt on Capital One's claims. 
"Our main concern with the acquisition today concerns systemic risk," Christopher Cole, senior vice president for the Independent Community Bankers of America, said at the Fed's hearing in Washington. He called for the Fed to impose a "moratorium" on all acquisitions involving banks that house more than $100 billion in assets.
In June, Capital One announced plans to acquire ING Group's online banking unit in the United States for $6.2 billion in cash. Under the terms of the deal, Capital One would also issue $2.8 billion worth of new shares to ING, giving the bank a 9.9 percent stake.
Capital One, best known for its profitable credit card business and catchy television ads, is quietly amassing a big national banking franchise. The ING deal would elevate Capital One, currently the eighth-largest bank in the United States, to the No. 5 spot. The combined institutions would have some $200 billion in deposits, raising questions about the deal's impact on customers and the broader economy.
The hearing on Tuesday came at the behest of Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, who pushed the Fed to gauge the potential pitfalls of the deal. Ultimately, it is up to the central bank to either bless or block the deal.
Under the Dodd-Frank act, the financial regulatory overhaul co-authored by Mr. Frank, the Fed must first examine whether the merger poses a systemic threat to the economy. When the risks outweigh the rewards, the Fed is required to scuttle the deal.
Consumer advocates are calling on the Fed to do just that. They argue that the takeover will create another behemoth bank that one day could come calling for a taxpayer bailout.
"We already have four too-big-to-fail banks. Why make a fifth?" John Taylor, president of the National Community Reinvestment Coalition, said this summer. At the hearing on Tuesday, Mr. Taylor told the Fed: "You have a duty to deny Capital One's plan to buy ING Direct," noting that the bank's credit card portfolio was loaded with risky subprime loans.
While critics outlined a list of concerns - and pressured the Fed not to approve the deal - Capital One countered by painting itself as a plain-vanilla bank, focused on lending to mom-and-pop investors rather than writing complex derivatives and other securities that three years ago drove Wall Street to the brink. 
The deal, Mr. Finneran said, "will not lessen competition or result in any undue concentration of resources." He added that Capital One would open new loan products to ING customers and, in another crucial concession, would soon start a 10-year, $180 billion community development investment, a nod to concerns that the combined firms will ignore low-income communities. Mr. Finneran also announced that Capital One would operate ING Direct USA as a separate bank, at least for a while.
The Fed offered few insights into its perspective on the deal. In recent weeks, however, at least one Fed official shied away from broadly interpreting the central bank's power over deal-making - even when an acquisition appeared risky.
"While Congress instructed us to consider the extent to which a proposed acquisition would pose a greater risk to financial stability, it clearly did not instruct us to reject an acquisition simply because there would be any increase in such risks," the Federal Reserve Board governor Daniel K. Tarullo said in a speech last week.

        
In Fed's Move on Capital One Deal, a Test of Dodd-Frank
        
Regulators Aim to End 'Too Big To Fail'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); COMMUNITY BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MERGERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); APPROVALS (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); LAWYERS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); INTERNET BANKING (72%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (71%); SUBPRIME LENDING (71%); CREDIT CARDS (70%); DIVESTITURES (66%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (65%) Barney Frank; Capital One; Christopher Cole; Daniel Tarullo; Dodd-Frank; Dodd-Frank Act; Federal Reserve; Independent Community Bankers of America; ING Direct USA; John Finneran; John Taylor; National Community Reinvestment Coalition; Cole, Christopher; Frank, Barney; Taylor, John; Banking and Financial Institutions; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Capital One Financial Corporation; ING Groep NV; Capital One Financial Corporation|COF|NYSE; ING Groep NV|ING|NYSE; Legal/Regulatory; Mergers & Acquisitions; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (93%); ING GROEP NV (92%); INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY BANKERS OF AMERICA (70%); ING BANK FSB (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Capital One Financial Corporation; Independent Community Bankers of America; ING Groep NV; National Community Reinvestment Coalition

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (93%); INGA (BIT) (92%); INGA (AMS) (92%); ING (NYSE) (92%) Capital One Financial Corporation; COF; NYSE; Capital One Financial Corporation; COF; NYSE; ING Groep NV; ING; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (58%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (89%) Cole, Christopher; Frank, Barney; Taylor, John

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



868 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: Of Beach Sand, 'War' and Carbon

BYLINE: JUSTIN GILLIS


HIGHLIGHT: The British entrepreneur Richard Branson has thrown his weight behind a consortium devoted to energy upgrades for commercial buildings -- no need to believe in global warming. 

 BODY:
Three years ago, my colleague Andrew Ross Sorkin caught the British entrepreneur Richard Branson on his private island in the Caribbean in a pensive moment. With a little help from his friends, he was thinking hard about the problem of global warming, and whether he might be able to help.
Fast-forward to now, and we know Mr. Branson's answer to his own question. A year after that chin-stroking session on Necker Island, he founded an outfit called the Carbon War Room in Washington that is working on solutions. On Sunday, I interviewed him for anarticle that ran in Tuesday's paper about a new business consortium the war room helped put together to tackle energy retrofits in the United States.
Recounting the creation of the Carbon War Room, Mr. Branson told me that he overruled his advisers and picked a martial name on purpose.

"I think the overwhelming scientific evidence indicates that the world is heating up, and the downside effects of that could be severe," he said. "A lot of people had compared the problems the world faces as being worse than World War I and World War II put together. And yet if that was truly the case, there wasn't a coordinating body that was trying to unite all the different industries in the world to get on top of the problem."
He set his group up with a specific mandate. Like many people who have studied the issue, Mr. Branson had come to the conclusion that society's first priority is not to find new sources of energy, but to stop wasting so much of the energy supply we already have, which would reduce emissions of carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas.
And here is where his case gets interesting: He believes that can be done now, at today's prices, under current governmental policies, in ways that save businesses and consumers money rather than costing extra.
In our interview, he added a twist to that argument: People do not even need to believe global warming is real to see that many of the things he advocates are sensible on their face.
"Government policy, particularly in America, is frozen," he said. "And yet, we don't just have a global-warming problem. We actually have an energy crisis looming. Demand for oil could exceed supply within this decade. For all the global-warming skeptics in America, at the very least they should be thinking energy dependency, their dependence on Mideast oil. They should be scrambling to join forces with the global-warming people to get on top of the problem."
What exactly does he prescribe? In a nutshell, he wants businesses to make investments that cut their carbon footprint.
The economic case for this approach could hardly be simpler. Burning fuel costs money, and it is costing more as oil prices spiral. Many technologies are available today to cut the use of energy. Cars and planes can be made lighter, buildings can be outfitted with insulation and better windows, and so on.
Both the cost of these upgrades and the savings can be quantified with some precision. With buildings, for example, energy use can often be cut by a third with a retrofit project that pays for itself in five years. The Empire State Building is a famous example, but the approach will work for a four-story medical building in Des Moines, too.
As a business problem, then, energy efficiency is straightforward: make a capital investment now to incur savings in operating costs in the future.
And yet, many obstacles have prevented it from happening on a larger scale. Perhaps the most important is the simple power of human inertia: it's easier for a company to keep paying the electric bill every month than to plan and execute some complex retrofit project. Beyond that, smaller companies in particular have trouble being certain the energy savings that they are promised by a contractor will actually materialize. Even if they become convinced, they have to finance what may look to a bank like a pretty mushy asset: estimated future savings on energy bills.
The list of these problems goes on and on. They have been understood since at least the 1980s, through the writings of Amory B. Lovins and other thinkers. But we have reached an interesting moment when some of the world's brightest business minds are starting to think about how to enlist global capital to solve them.
The best way to see the Carbon War Room, I think, is as an interesting new entrant in the field. It is no accident that Mr. Branson has stuffed it with people who have backgrounds as successful entrepreneurs and business thinkers.
The Carbon War Room has gone hard after a handful of issues with potentially large carbon savings, like fuel waste in the global shipping industry. In the case I wrote about, the war room announced a new business consortium that will attempt building retrofits on a large scale in the United States, starting in Miami and Sacramento.
The mechanism that the group plans to exploit, known as Property Assessed Clean Energy or PACE, was not invented by the Carbon War Room, but the Branson group is one among several that have grabbed the idea. It basically involves paying for energy retrofits through a surcharge on property-tax bills.
As I mentioned in the article, the hazards of the PACE mechanism are not insignificant, particularly the risk that disreputable contractors will be drawn to this new pot of money, promising more energy savings than they actually deliver. The cities and counties introducing these programs have an obligation to be careful that they enlist upright players, and the courts that will validate the bond issues have an obligation to be meticulous.
But I suspect that if the approach does work, we will all be kicking ourselves a few years from now and asking, why didn't we try that earlier?
"There's a lot of things that seem obvious after they've been done," Mr. Branson said in the interview. "But it takes committed people to get the ball rolling."

        
'Carbon War Room' Takes Aim at Shipping
        
Another Energy Retrofit Initiative
        
Weaving 'Climate' Into 'Corporate'
        
On Our Radar: Asian Climate Refugees
        
Q. and A.: The Quest of the Earth Scientist

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (88%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (86%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); WORLD WAR II (70%); WORLD WAR I (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (68%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (68%); PUBLIC POLICY (62%) Carbon War Room; climate change; energy officiency; energy retrofits; Richard Branson; Breaking News; Business; Efficiency; Emissions Reduction; Energy Business; Energy Economics; Energy Politics

PERSON: RICHARD BRANSON (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (91%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



869 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Of Beach Sand, War and Carbon

BYLINE: JUSTIN GILLIS


HIGHLIGHT: The British entrepreneur Richard Branson has thrown his weight behind a consortium devoted to energy upgrades for commercial buildings. In his view, people don't need to believe that global warming is real to see that such ideas are sensible on their face. 

 BODY:
Three years ago, my colleague Andrew Ross Sorkin caught the British entrepreneur Richard Branson on his private island in the Caribbean in a pensive moment. With a little help from his friends, he was thinking hard about the problem of global warming, and whether he might be able to help.
Fast-forward to now, and we know Mr. Branson's answer to his own question. A year after that chin-scratching session on Necker Island, he founded an outfit called the Carbon War Room in Washington that is working on solutions. On Sunday, I interviewed him for a piece that ran in Tuesday's paper about a new business consortium the war room helped put together to tackle energy retrofits in the United States.
Recounting the creation of the Carbon War Room, Mr. Branson told me that he overruled his advisers and picked a martial name on purpose.

"I think the overwhelming scientific evidence indicates that the world is heating up, and the downside effects of that could be severe," he said. "A lot of people had compared the problems the world faces as being worse than World War I and World War II put together. And yet if that was truly the case, there wasn't a coordinating body that was trying to unite all the different industries in the world to get on top of the problem."
He set his group up with a specific mandate. Like many people who have studied the issue, Mr. Branson had come to the conclusion that society's first priority is not to find new sources of energy, but to stop wasting so much of the energy supply we already have, which would reduce emissions of carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas. 
And here is where his case gets interesting: He believes that can be done now, at today's prices, under current governmental policies, in ways that save businesses and consumers money rather than costing extra.
In our interview, he added a twist to that argument: People do not even need to believe global warming is real to see that many of the things he advocates are sensible on their face.
"Government policy, particularly in America, is frozen," he said. "And yet, we don't just have a global-warming problem. We actually have an energy crisis looming. Demand for oil could exceed supply within this decade. For all the global-warming skeptics in America, at the very least they should be thinking energy dependency, their dependence on Mideast oil. They should be scrambling to join forces with the global-warming people to get on top of the problem."
What exactly does he prescribe? In a nutshell, he wants businesses to make investments that cut their carbon footprint. 
The economic case for this approach could hardly be simpler. Burning fuel costs money, and it is costing more as oil prices spiral. Many technologies are available today to cut the use of energy. Cars and planes can be made lighter, buildings can be outfitted with insulation and better windows, and so on. 
Both the cost of these upgrades and the savings can be quantified with some precision. With buildings, for example, energy use can often be cut by a third with a retrofit project that pays for itself in five years. The Empire State Building is a famous example, but the approach will work for a four-story medical building in Des Moines, too.
As a business problem, then, energy efficiency is straightforward: make a capital investment now to incur savings in operating costs in the future.
And yet, many obstacles have prevented it from happening on a larger scale. Perhaps the most important is the simple power of human inertia: it's easier for a company to keep paying the electric bill every month than to plan and execute some complex retrofit project. Beyond that, smaller companies in particular have trouble being certain the energy savings that they are promised by a contractor will actually materialize. Even if they become convinced, they have to finance what may look to a bank like a pretty mushy asset: estimated future savings on energy bills. 
The list of these problems goes on and on. They have been understood since at least the 1980s, through the writings of Amory B. Lovins and other thinkers. But we have reached an interesting moment when some of the world's brightest business minds are starting to think about how to enlist global capital to solve them. 
The best way to see the Carbon War Room, I think, is as an interesting new entrant in the field. It is no accident that Mr. Branson has stuffed it with people who have backgrounds as successful entrepreneurs and business thinkers.
The Carbon War Room has gone hard after a handful of issues with potentially large carbon savings, like fuel waste in the global shipping industry. In the case I wrote about, the war room announced a new business consortium that will attempt building retrofits on a large scale in the United States, starting in Miami and Sacramento. 
The mechanism that the group plans to exploit, known as Property Assessed Clean Energy or PACE, was not invented by the Carbon War Room, but the Branson group is one among several that have grabbed the idea. It basically involves paying for energy retrofits through a surcharge on property-tax bills.
As I mentioned in the article, the hazards of the PACE mechanism are not insignificant, particularly the risk that disreputable contractors will be drawn to this new pot of money, promising more energy savings than they actually deliver. The cities and counties launching these programs have an obligation to be careful that they enlist upright players, and the courts that will validate the bond issues have an obligation to be meticulous.
But I suspect that if the approach does work, we will all be kicking ourselves a few years from now and saying, why didn't we try that earlier?
"There's a lot of things that seem obvious after they've been done," Mr. Branson said in the interview. "But it takes committed people to get the ball rolling."

        
'Carbon War Room' Takes Aim at Shipping
        
Climate Change and Business Strategy
        
On Our Radar: Asian Climate Refugees
        
Q. and A.: The Quest of the Earth Scientist
        
European Commission Disputes Opinion on Biofuels Emissions

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (88%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (86%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); WORLD WAR II (70%); WORLD WAR I (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (68%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (68%); PUBLIC POLICY (62%) Carbon War Room; climate change; energy officiency; energy retrofits; Richard Branson; Breaking News; Business; Efficiency; Emissions Reduction; Energy Business; Energy Economics; Energy Politics

PERSON: RICHARD BRANSON (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (91%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



870 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Capital One Denies ING Deal Would Make It 'Too Big to Fail'

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: Consumer groups and smaller banks are warning that the $9 billion merger, if approved, could pose systemic threats to the economy. 

 BODY:
8:08 p.m. | Updated 
Capital One on Tuesday delivered a sweeping defense of its proposed $9 billion takeover of ING Direct USA, aiming to allay concerns that the deal would create another "too big to fail" banking giant.
"The acquisition of ING Direct will further reduce, rather than increase, any risk to the financial system," John Finneran, Capital One's general counsel, told the Federal Reserve, which hosted the first of three public hearings to examine the controversial deal.
Consumer groups and smaller banks, warning that the deal could pose systemic threats to the economy, cast doubt on Capital One's claims. 
"Our main concern with the acquisition today concerns systemic risk," Christopher Cole, senior vice president for the Independent Community Bankers of America, said at the Fed's hearing in Washington. He called for the Fed to impose a "moratorium" on all acquisitions involving banks that house more than $100 billion in assets.
In June, Capital One announced plans to acquire ING Group's online banking unit in the United States for $6.2 billion in cash. Under the terms of the deal, Capital One would also issue $2.8 billion worth of new shares to ING, giving the bank a 9.9 percent stake.
Capital One, best known for its profitable credit card business and catchy television ads, is quietly amassing a big national banking franchise. The ING deal would elevate Capital One, currently the eighth-largest bank in the United States, to the No. 5 spot. The combined institutions would have some $200 billion in deposits, raising questions about the deal's impact on customers and the broader economy.
The hearing on Tuesday came at the behest of Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, who pushed the Fed to gauge the potential pitfalls of the deal. Ultimately, it is up to the central bank to either bless or block the deal.
Under the Dodd-Frank act, the financial regulatory overhaul co-authored by Mr. Frank, the Fed must first examine whether the merger poses a systemic threat to the economy. When the risks outweigh the rewards, the Fed is required to scuttle the deal.
Consumer advocates are calling on the Fed to do just that. They argue that the takeover will create another behemoth bank that one day could come calling for a taxpayer bailout.
"We already have four too-big-to-fail banks. Why make a fifth?" John Taylor, president of the National Community Reinvestment Coalition, said this summer. At the hearing on Tuesday, Mr. Taylor told the Fed: "You have a duty to deny Capital One's plan to buy ING Direct," noting that the bank's credit card portfolio was loaded with risky subprime loans.
While critics outlined a list of concerns - and pressured the Fed not to approve the deal - Capital One countered by painting itself as a plain-vanilla bank, focused on lending to mom-and-pop investors rather than writing complex derivatives and other securities that three years ago drove Wall Street to the brink. 
The deal, Mr. Finneran said, "will not lessen competition or result in any undue concentration of resources." He added that Capital One would open new loan products to ING customers and, in another crucial concession, would soon start a 10-year, $180 billion community development investment, a nod to concerns that the combined firms will ignore low-income communities. Mr. Finneran also announced that Capital One would operate ING Direct USA as a separate bank, at least for a while.
The Fed offered few insights into its perspective on the deal. In recent weeks, however, at least one Fed official shied away from broadly interpreting the central bank's power over deal-making - even when an acquisition appeared risky.
"While Congress instructed us to consider the extent to which a proposed acquisition would pose a greater risk to financial stability, it clearly did not instruct us to reject an acquisition simply because there would be any increase in such risks," the Federal Reserve Board governor Daniel K. Tarullo said in a speech last week.

        
In Fed's Move on Capital One Deal, a Test of Dodd-Frank
        
Regulators Aim to End 'Too Big To Fail'
http://graphics8.nytimes.com/images/2011/09/21/business/Capital/Capital-tmagSF.jpgJohn Taylor, head of the National Community Reinvestment Coalition, told the Fed that Capital One's plan was too risky.Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg News

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); COMMUNITY BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MERGERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); APPROVALS (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); LAWYERS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); INTERNET BANKING (72%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (71%); SUBPRIME LENDING (71%); CREDIT CARDS (70%); DIVESTITURES (66%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (65%) Barney Frank; Capital One; Christopher Cole; Daniel Tarullo; Dodd-Frank; Dodd-Frank Act; Federal Reserve; Independent Community Bankers of America; ING Direct USA; John Finneran; John Taylor; National Community Reinvestment Coalition; Cole, Christopher; Frank, Barney; Taylor, John; Banking and Financial Institutions; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Capital One Financial Corporation; ING Groep NV; Capital One Financial Corporation|COF|NYSE; ING Groep NV|ING|NYSE; Legal/Regulatory; Mergers & Acquisitions; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (93%); ING GROEP NV (92%); INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY BANKERS OF AMERICA (70%); ING BANK FSB (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Capital One Financial Corporation; Independent Community Bankers of America; ING Groep NV; National Community Reinvestment Coalition

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (93%); INGA (BIT) (92%); INGA (AMS) (92%); ING (NYSE) (92%) Capital One Financial Corporation; COF; NYSE; Capital One Financial Corporation; COF; NYSE; ING Groep NV; ING; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (58%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (89%) Cole, Christopher; Frank, Barney; Taylor, John

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



871 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: Google Says It Plays Fair

BYLINE: STEVE LOHR


HIGHLIGHT: Eric Schmidt, Google's chairman, will tell a Senate panel that Google generates wealth for small businesses across America antitrust investigations of Google are largely the result of complaints by disgruntled competitors. 

 BODY:
 In written testimony to a Senate antitrust panel where he will testify Wednesday afternoon, Eric Schmidt, Google's chairman, describes the search giant as a company facing fierce competition on many fronts, a relentless innovator in a dynamic industry and a creation of the open Internet so consumers can easily switch to competing services.
 Google generates wealth for itself, he writes, but even more in total for small businesses across America. And he portrays the Federal Trade Commission's antitrust investigation of Google, begun earlier this year, as largely the result of complaints by disgruntled competitors.
 Google is cooperating with the wide-ranging F.T.C. inquiry, Mr. Schmidt writes, and adds "we hope it will be conducted in a focused and fair manner so that we can continue creating jobs and building products that delight our users."
 Mr. Schmidt's written testimony, submitted on Tuesday, will be introduced before the Senate Judiciary's antitrust subcommittee, where he and some Google rivals will testify in person on Wednesday afternoon.
 The written testimony by Mr. Schmidt makes the case that Google has been making for months as its business practices have come under increasing scrutiny from antitrust regulators in the United States, Europe and Korea. But the Google chairman lays out the company's defense of its actions and motivations in a document that is pointed and succinct, yet comprehensive.
 Antitrust regulators are investigating complaints that Google favors its own commerce services and offerings in its search results, among other allegations. 
 Google's success, Mr. Schmidt writes, is a byproduct of its corporate ethos of putting consumer interests first. "Keeping up requires constant investment and innovation," he writes, "and if Google fails in this effort users can and will switch. The cost of going elsewhere is zero, and users can and do use other sources to find the information they want."
 Mr. Schmidt asserts that Google's search and advertising marketplace "helped generate $64 billion in economic activity for hundreds of thousands of small businesses throughout the United States."
 In his testimony, Mr. Schmidt pointed to a long list of competitors including Microsoft's Bing search engine, travel sites like Expedia and Travelocity, restaurant review and recommendations sites like Yelp, shopping sites like Amazon and eBay, and social networks like Facebook. "Consumers," he writes, "have a truly vast array of options - some search and some note - from which to access information."
 Turning to the antitrust investigations, Mr. Schmidt writes, "most of these complaints come from websites that don't like where their site ranks on Google's search results page or argue that in providing better answers like maps, shopping, or local results, we are hurting individual sites." 

        
Google Introduces Hotel Search
        
Government Seeks More Information on Google's Admeld Acquisition
        
Google Confirms F.T.C. Antitrust Inquiry
        
Justice Department to Review Google's Admeld Deal
        
Google vs. Groupon

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (97%); INVESTIGATIONS (92%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (89%); SEARCH ENGINES (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); INTERNET RETAILING (77%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (77%); CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); CORPORATE CULTURE (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); JOB CREATION (68%); RESTAURANTS (60%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (50%) Antitrust; Eric Schmidt; Google; Schmidt, Eric E; Antitrust Laws and Competition Issues; Search Engines; Google Inc; Senate; Google Inc|GOOG|NASDAQ; Company News; Internet

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); FACEBOOK INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (83%) Google Inc; Senate

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); FB (NASDAQ) (51%) Google Inc; GOOG; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (95%) Schmidt, Eric E

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



872 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1862 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: DEALBOOK


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter 

 BODY:
New Buffett Manager Gets Less Pay and Higher Taxes, by Choice | Ted Weschler is a highly successful hedge fund manager tapped by Warren E. Buffett to help invest Berkshire Hathaway's billions of dollars. 
It's a wildly coveted position - only he'll take a salary cut and pay more in taxes. And he's O.K. with that, Andrew Ross Sorkin writes in his latest DealBook column.
As the Obama administration moves to raise taxes for the wealthiest Americans, it will find no disagreement from the new Berkshire employee. "When you have enough money to live the lifestyle you want," Mr. Weschler says, money and taxes are less of a consideration than "who you want to work with."
DEALBOOK
DEAL NOTES
More Protests on Wall Street | Protesters continued their march on Wall Street on Monday, taking to Manhattan's financial district to decry an economic system they claim benefits the rich at the expense of the poor. Six were arrested.
CITY ROOM
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
ConAgra Withdraws Ralcorp Offer | ConAgra Foods withdrew its $5.17 billion bid for Ralcorp Holdings on Monday, ending its aggressive pursuit of the food maker.
DEALBOOK
Is Hulu Auction Withering on the Vine? | Unmotivated sellers, troubled buyers and complicated rights deals could "derail" the auction for Hulu, the online video site owned by the News Corporation, Walt Disney, NBC Universal and Providence Equity Partners, Reuters reports. 
 The report also notes that NBC Universal's move to hire Stuart Epstein, a Morgan Stanley banker involved in the sale process, as its chief financial officer further complicates the deal.
REUTERS | DEALBOOK
This Time, Tyco Pays Heed to Bondholders | As Tyco embarks on another corporate breakup by splitting into three new companies, it plans to take better care of its bondholders, Reuters Breakingviews writes. The conglomerate is spreading its corporate debt among its three divisions, instead of piling them into just one.
REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS | DEALBOOK
PPR Takes Catalogs Unit Off Block | With offers unlikely to come close to Redcats' reserve price of 1.5 billion euros, PPR has decided to shelve the auction of its online retail and catalogs business, Reuters reports. 
 The French luxury brand said the auction had run into problems because "potential bidders cannot finance" a deal for the unit, which had reportedly caught the eye of TPG Capital, BC Partners and CVC Capital Partners.
REUTERS | BLOOMBERG | FINANCIAL TIMES
INVESTMENT BANKING 
UBS Scandal Is a Reminder About Why Dodd-Frank Came to Be | The case cast a spotlight on banks' risk-taking activities and evoked memories of the financial crisis at a time when new regulations are anticipated.
DealBook 
UBS Chief in the Cross Hairs | The rogue trading scandal at UBS is likely to put pressure on the Swiss bank's chief executive, Oswald Gruebel, to speed up the process of finding a successor and restructuring the bank. It may also lead to Mr. Gruebel forgoing his bonus again.
The alleged rogue trading that occurred at UBS has also highlighted gaps in European trade reporting legislation, The Wall Street Journal reports.
REUTERS | WALL STREET JOURNAL
Rivals Look to Poach UBS Deal Makers | With the rogue trading scandal set to result in lower bonuses for UBS bankers this year, rivals are circling the talent, looking to woo some of the Swiss bank's star deal advisers, Reuters writes.
REUTERS
Siemens Said to Withdraw Deposits From SocGen | Siemens has withdrawn money from Societe General - but because of fund underperformance, not fears over the French bank's health, according to Reuters.
The Financial Times had reported that Siemens withdrew 500 million euros from an unnamed French bank two weeks ago and deposited the money with the European Central Bank. The move was borne of concern for the lender's financial condition and interest in the central bank's higher interest rates.
REUTERS | FINANCIAL TIMES
S.E.C. Seeks to Restrict Banks' Bets Against Clients | The Securities and Exchange Commission is tabling a proposal that would limit financial firms' ability to bet against bundled financial products they create and sell to investors, as well as prohibiting third-party input in the assembly of these products.
REUTERS
Lloyds Accelerates Unwinding of Bad Loans | Lloyds has begun the much anticipated sale of a 1 billion pound ($1.57 billion) commercial property loan portfolio, marking a change in pace for the British bank, which has a total of 24 billion pounds in bad loans that it needs to unwind.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Last of 'Old Guard' Out at Lloyds | Tim Tookey, one of the last men left at Lloyds Banking Group who worked on the lender's disastrous HBOS takeover, will leave his position as finance director at the firm, completing the clear-out of the "old guard."
FINANCIAL TIMES
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Wrigley Building Sold to Investors | Chicago's landmark Wrigley Building has been purchased for about $30 million by an investor group that includes a former Goldman Sachs deal maker, Byron D. Trott; Groupon's co-founders. Brad Keywell and Eric Lefkofsky; as well as the Zeller Realty Group.
CHICAGO TRIBUNE
Blackstone and Prestige Said to Team Up for Glaxo Unit | Blackstone and the consumer products maker Prestige Brands are in the early stages of a $3 billion joint bid for British drug maker GlaxoSmithKline's over-the-counter unit, The Times of London reports.
REUTERS
For P.E., a Different Kind of Investment in China | Private equity firms in China are stepping into the domain of hedge funds, with buyout groups like Bain Capital, Blackstone and Kohlberg Kravis & Roberts making short term bets on companies in the country, often to help them raise funds for an I.P.O.
REUTERS
Credit Agricole Invests in Services Firm | In spite of the heavy scrutiny of its parent, Credit Agricole's private equity unit is doing business as usual. It said on Monday that it has purchased a 22.65 million euro ($30.95 million) stake in the national services company Groupe SVP.
FOX BUSINESS
HEDGE FUNDS 
Bidder for Mets Stake Instead Chooses the Yankees | Ray Bartoszek, a former Glencore oil trader who lost out to David Einhorn in a deal to buy a stake in the Mets, has taken a stake in the Yankees. "My conversations with the Mets was a very interesting and positive experience, and I was able to parlay that into this great opportunity," he told The New York Times.
NEW YORK TIMES
Brevan Howard Thinks Smaller Is Better | One of Europe's biggest hedge fund managers, Brevan Howard, is considering returning $2 billion to investors in its $26.5 billion Master Fund, according to Bloomberg News. The reason: to stay nimble by keeping assets under management at about $25 billion.
BLOOMBERG
Marathon Asset Management Names Partners | The New York-based hedge fund, which last month unveiled a $100 million fund aimed at profiting from the European debt crisis, has appointed three credit group managers, Stuart Goldberg, Jake Hyde and Andrew Springer, as partners, Bloomberg reports.
BLOOMBERG
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Spain Kicks Off National Lottery I.P.O. | The Spanish government has begun the sale of 30 percent of Loterias y Apuestas del Estado, the country's state owned lottery firm, in an initial public offering that one source told Reuters could raise as much as $12.4 billion.
REUTERS
Sany Heavy Delays Part of $3.3 Billion I.P.O. | Sany Heavy Industry, a Chinese construction machine maker, has delayed the retail portion of its $3.3 billion initial public offering, amid market volatility. The question now is whether the company will lower the price it is seeking.
REUTERS
Mascoma Files to Go Public | The renewable energy firm has filed for an initial public offering, seeking to raise as much as $100 million to help Mascoma commercialize its new ethanol production technology.
NEWS RELEASE | NHBR
FX Alliance Plans Public Debut | FX Alliance, a forex trading platform, is looking to raise as much as $100 million in an initial public offering that will help the firm expand its staff and develop technology.
DOW JONES
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Despite Solyndra, White House to Back More Green Tech | Despite the political furor over the failure of solar-tech maker Solyndra, the Obama administration is moving forward with plans to award $9.2 billion in loan guarantees to 14 renewable energy companies before the end of the month.
BLOOMBERG
Google Snaps Up German Daily Deals Site | Google has agreed to buy Germany's answer to Groupon, DailyDeal, which serves Germany, Austria and Switzerland.
VENTUREBEAT
American Express Buys a Game Payments Start-Up | American Express has purchased Sometrics, a company that allows game makers to add in-game payments and advertising, for $30 million. Sometrics is backed by the Mail Room Fund, AT&T, Greycroft Partners and Steamboat Ventures.
TECHCRUNCH
Wisconsin Considers Investment Fund | Wisconsin is considering investing as much as $500 million in a new venture capital fund that would back local companies and high-tech start-ups, The Journal Sentinel writes.
JOURNAL SENTINEL
Shore Looks to Raise $31 Million to Plug V.C. Vacuum | Shore Capital's chief executive is convinced that bank caution has left a "massive market" for venture capital in Britain, and is looking to raise a $31 million fund that it hopes to use to exploit it, The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Mass. Start-Up Raises $125 Million for China Factory | Boston-Power has raised $125 million to build a lithium-ion battery factory in China in a round led by venture investors, including GSR Ventures and Oak Investment Partners, with backing of the Chinese government.
PEHUB
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
In Galleon Case, Prison Term Is Seen as Test | How a judge rules on Raj Rajaratnam's punishment is being seen in legal circles as a litmus test of whether the crime of insider trading justifies a long prison term.
DealBook 
U.S. Lawsuits Over Rogue Scandal May Be Limited | American investors looking to claim damages due to the UBS rogue trading scandal through class-action lawsuits may run into obstacles under United States securities laws, Reuters writes.
REUTERS
S.E.C. Is Said to Seek More Data on Overseas Cash | The Securities and Exchange Commission is seeking more information about how much cash American companies keep offshore, according to The Financial Times. The inquiry follows renewed interest in changing the rate at which repatriated profits are taxed.
FINANCIAL TIMES
S.E.C. Said to Examine Trades Made Before U.S. Downgrade | Regulators have started an insider-trading investigation into trades made by hedge funds and others ahead of the move by Standard & Poor's to downgrade America's credit rating last month, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Investors Don't Have to Return Cash to Madoff Crippled Fund | Investors in the Fairfax Sentry Fund who withdrew money before it went into liquidation because of Bernard Madoff's Ponzi scheme will not have to pay the funds back, a judge in the British Virgin Islands has ruled.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

        
Morning Take-Out
        
Morning Take-Out

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); FOOD MFG (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); BONDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (76%); LUXURY GOODS (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (73%); SCANDALS (72%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (71%); HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); MERGERS (71%); EURO (70%); CORPORATE DEBT (69%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (66%); INTERNET VIDEO (64%); INTERNET RETAILING (64%); ARRESTS (52%) Morning Take-Out; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (82%); CONAGRA FOODS INC (69%); NEWS CORP (66%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); PROVIDENCE EQUITY PARTNERS INC (54%); WALT DISNEY CO (54%); TPG CAPITAL LP (51%); CVC CAPITAL PARTNERS LTD (51%)

TICKER: CAG (NYSE) (69%); NWS (NASDAQ) (66%); NWS (ASX) (66%); BRK.B (NYSE) (58%); BRK.A (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (56%); DIS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%); NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS311710 SEAFOOD PRODUCT PREPARATION & PACKAGING (69%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (69%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (69%); SIC2092 PREPARED FRESH OR FROZEN FISH & SEAFOODS (69%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (69%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (66%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (54%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (54%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (54%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (54%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (90%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



873 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: Romney Recruits Congressional Republicans

BYLINE: JEFF ZELENY


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney announced on Tuesday that he was forming a Congressional Team to recruit party leaders to join his campaign. 

 BODY:
Mitt Romney is stepping up his effort to consolidate the support of the Republican establishment and announced on Tuesday that he was forming a Congressional team to recruit party leaders to join his campaign.
Senator Roy Blunt of Missouri is leading the movement on Capitol Hill, overseeing the effort to sign up members of the House and Senate to get behind the candidacy of Mr. Romney. Republican presidential candidates often try to distance themselves from Washington, but Mr. Romney is working to shore up support from party leaders to bolster his argument that he is the most electable candidate to challenge President Obama.
The rise of Gov. Rick Perry of Texas has excited parts of the Republican base, but has also stirred concern among party leaders who believe that he has limited cross-over appeal in the general election. The endorsement by Mr. Blunt is the latest sign of Mr. Romney's intensifying effort to secure the party establishment.
"Through his experience in the private sector and as governor, I believe Mitt has the right background to help create more economic certainty and spur job growth in Missouri and nationwide," said Mr. Blunt, a former member of the House, who played a similar role in the 2000 presidential campaign for George W. Bush.
The fight for the Republican nomination has escalated between Mr. Romney and Mr. Perry through a series of debates this month. The two candidates have shown sharp divisions over their positions on Social Security and other issues.
The focus on Social Security, a program whose constitutionality Mr. Perry once questioned, has caused anxiety among some Republicans working to win a Senate majority and keep control of the House next year. But Mr. Perry also has found a strong following from some members of the Tea Party movement and has been a leading critic of Washington.

        
Tea Party Groups to Protest Romney in N.H.
        
Caucus Video: Three-Way Republican Race Emerges; Obama's Bus Tour
        
In Iowa, Romney Is Comfortable at the Round Table
        
Mitt Romney Opposes Debt Compromise
        
Romney Says Closed Steel Plant Symbolizes Obama's Failures

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (50%) mitt romney; Presidential Election of 2012; Romney, Mitt; Republican Party; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); ROY BLUNT (90%); RICK PERRY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



874 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: United Nations Visit Diverts Obama From Jobs Message Again

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: The New York trip will serve as an inconvenient hiatus for Mr. Obama's jobs message. 

 BODY:
President Obama drove the day's political news coverage on Monday, using Rose Garden remarks to unveil his long-term deficit proposals and to issue a stern veto threat to Republicans who refuse to consider tax increases.
And then within hours, Mr. Obama was gone - headed to New York City for two days of intense foreign policy negotiations at the annual meeting of the United NationsGeneral Assembly.
The New York trip will serve as an inconvenient hiatus for Mr. Obama's jobs focus and a reminder of the difficulty that presidents have in staying on a single message despite the White House bully pulpit.
Mr. Obama has repeatedly promised a renewed focus on "jobs, jobs, jobs," only to find that promise derailed by external events or his own agenda. In early 2010, White House aides promised a "very hard pivot" to jobs, only to continue a focus on Mr. Obama's health care legislation for months.
Throughout 2010 and into 2011, the White House insisted that its attention would be on the economy and jobs. But critics, including some Democrats, have assailed the president for not doing enough to stay focused as unemployment has stubbornly remained at or above 9 percent and economic growth has stalled.
For the most part, Mr. Obama will be leaving behind the debate on jobs - and the related arguments over how to cut the federal debt - for the duration of his time in New York. In briefings with reporters, aides described a packed schedule that began with a meet-and-greet of United Nations employees Monday night and will end with the president's return late Wednesday night.
Instead of pushing his jobs plan or defending his tax proposals, Mr. Obama will spend the next 48 hours dealing with the new Libyan government and the expected Palestinian demand for recognition as a state by the United Nations - a step that Mr. Obama has vowed to block.
Instead of engaging in one-on-one phone calls with Congressional leaders on the direction of the special committee on deficit reduction, Mr. Obama will be holding bilateral meetings with the world leaders. 
And the next big speech Mr. Obama will give will be his annual address to the United Nations on Wednesday. National security aides at the White House said the president would address the changes sweeping through Arab countries, the Israeli-Palestinian peace effort, and the draw-downs in the number of American troops in Afghanistan and Iraq.
(On Monday night he also used his time in New York to squeeze in a fund-raiser at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel. About 60 people were expected to pay $35,800 apiece to support the Obama victory fund, a joint effort between Mr. Obama's campaign and the Democratic National Committee.)
The United Nation's trip is not one of choice. The annual New York meeting is scheduled well in advance, and the American president is always expected to attend.
And a two-day absence from the jobs and deficit debate is hardly going to keep Mr. Obama from playing a significant role in negotiations that are almost certain to drag out well into the winter months. 
But it is an example of the kind of event that can threaten any momentum that the president may develop as he barnstorms the country on behalf of his policies.
Known for his message discipline as a candidate, Mr. Obama has been knocked off his presidential message plenty of times while in office.
In the past two and a half years, Mr. Obama has had to contend with natural disasters, foreign trips and public relations issues that competed with policy agenda. In 2010, Mr. Obama delayed a planned trip to Indonesia, Guam and Australia so that he could make a final push for passage of health care legislation.
Last November, as he approached a difficult negotiation with Republicans during the lame-duck session of Congress, Mr. Obama spent 10 days in Asia on a foreign trip, followed by a quick two-day summit in Europe and a weeklong controversy over aggressive pat-downs from officers for the Transportation Security Administration.
Since announcing his jobs bill before a joint session of Congress on Sept. 8, Mr. Obama has tried to keep a singular focus on the plan, spending practically every day since then giving speeches aimed at keeping the pressure on Republicans.
That intensity of effort has encouraged some of his liberal supporters, who in the past have criticized the president as failing to follow through after a big speech.
Mr. Obama's aides are quick to point out that the president is more than able to focus on more than one thing at a time.
But the New York trip may be the first of several tests this fall of how the president juggles the responsibilities of the presidency and the need to keep that pressure on Republicans for several months.
Expect more such tests between now and Nov. 23, when the Congressional committee on deficit reduction is supposed to finish its work.
An earlier version of the post erroneously stated that the Palestinians are demanding a seat on the United Nations Security Council. They are seeking recognition as a state.

        
Stagecraft of the Obama-Boehner Debt Debate
        
Best Political Quotes of the Weekend
        
Five Debt Questions in a Swirl of Uncertainty
        
How 'Gang of Six' Revived Idea of Grand Debt Deal
        
A Debt Ceiling Cheat Sheet: 8 Possible Plans

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VETO (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (62%); FUNDRAISING (60%); HEALTH CARE LAW (53%) barack obama; debt; deficit; taxes; United Nations; Obama, Barack; Labor and Jobs; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Politics and Government; Congress; Elections; The 44th President; The Caucus; The White House

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) United Nations

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



875 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: Alexander to Resign Senate Leadership Post

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: The Senate's third-ranking Republican says he will step down as the Republican leadership races take shape. 

 BODY:
UPDATE 3:25 p.m.: Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, the Senate's third-ranking Republican, announced on Tuesday that he will step down in January as chairman of the Senate Republican Conference and will not seek a leadership post in the next Congress.
Mr. Alexander, 71, a former governor, education secretary and two-time presidential candidate, has served as the conference chairman for nearly four years. He announced that he would resign on the Senate floor, after sending an e-mail to his Republican colleagues. His decision to step down was first reported by Politico.
Mr. Alexander said he still planned to run for a third term in 2014, and that stepping down from the leadership would "liberate" him to work behind the scenes shaping Republican policy. 
"That means stopping runaway regulations and spending," he said. "But it also means setting priorities," adding that he blamed "runaway health care spending" for hampering the economic recovery. "I want to do more to make the Senate a more effective institution so that it can deal better with serious issues," he said. 
Mr. Alexander's resignation is expected to clear the way for Senator John Cornyn of Texas, chairman of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, to become the party's next whip, replacing Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, who will not seek a fourth term in 2012. Senator John Thune of South Dakota is expected to announce on Tuesday that he will seek to replace Mr. Alexander as chairman of the Republican conference, according to a source close to Mr. Thune.
The conference chairman manages the secret elections of floor leaders, distributes committee assignments and sets policy priorities. 
Mr. Thune's bid to lead the conference leaves open the top post on the Republican Policy Committee, a spot he currently holds. Senator John Barasso of Wyoming sought support from his colleagues on Tuesday to succeed Mr. Thune. In a statement, he promised "aggressive and conservative" leadership to focused on creating jobs and fighting Democrats over the new health care law.
Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, expressed relief that Mr. Alexander would seek a third term.
"We are confident that this is not a eulogy we're engaging in," he said.

        
McConnell Thinking Big on Entitlements
        
G.O.P. Wants Deal on Commerce Secretary
        
On Capitol Hill, Budget Battle Continues
        
A Warning on Reining in Filibusters
        
More Support for Arms Control Treaty

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (76%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); FILIBUSTER (73%); BUDGETS (73%); JOB CREATION (67%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (52%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (50%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Lamar Alexander; Senate Republicans; Alexander, Lamar; Republican Party; Senate; Congress

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party; Senate

PERSON: LAMAR ALEXANDER (94%); JOHN THUNE (79%); JOHN CORNYN (78%); JON KYL (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%) Alexander, Lamar

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



876 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: White House Deputy Communications Director Steps Down

BYLINE: JACKIE CALMES


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama is losing one of his longest-serving aides, Jennifer Psaki, who has been a witness to the varied crises of his campaign and presidency. 

 BODY:
President Obama is losing one of his longest-serving aides, Jennifer Psaki, who has been a witness to the varied crises of his campaign and presidency and the unflappable and genial point-person to reporters covering those events.
While Mr. Obama tried to dissuade her, Ms. Psaki, the deputy communications director, announced on Tuesday that she will work her last day at the White House on Thursday. In mid-October she will become senior vice president and managing director for the Washington office of Global Strategy Group, a public relations firm that works with corporate, non-profit and political clients. 
One of the most popular people both within the White House and with members of the media, whose relations with other Obama aides often were strained, Ms. Psaki, 32, was an early and easy fit in the "No Drama Obama" team that came together prior to his announcement of his presidential candidacy in February 2007. 
She may have logged more miles with Mr. Obama on the campaign trail than any other aide, acting as his spokesperson to the media entourage in tow. When Mr. Obama moved into the White House, amid a financial crisis and the worst recession since the Depression, Ms. Psaki became a deputy press secretary and was a liaison between reporters and his economic team - in particular Lawrence Summers, the chief White House economic adviser, and Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner - on issues including economic stimulus measures, the overhaul of the financial regulatory system, the auto industry rescue and budget proposals.
After the 2010 midterm elections that saw Republicans take control of the House - among the Democratic casualties was the Ohio congressman for whom Ms. Psaki's husband, Greg Mecher, worked - Mr. Obama reorganized his occasionally fractious and exhausted team. He promoted Ms. Psaki to deputy communications director, responsible for daily response to news events as well as long-range strategic planning.
Dan Pfeiffer, the communications director, said of his deputy, "There is no smarter or better person in politics today than Jen Psaki. For four and half years, Jen has been an absolutely essential member of the president's team."
On one level Ms. Psaki's departure now was predictable; presidents seeking reelection generally expect any senior advisers who want to leave to do so before the campaign year, to limit distractions and turnover. But her timing proved unfortunate when it coincided this week with national attention to a new book on the first half of Mr. Obama's term that reports on resentment among women within the White House about the dominance of some of the men.
"That doesn't reflect my experience," Ms. Psaki said in an interview. "The big secret is there is an incredible bond between the senior women in the White House," she said, adding that they "take pride in being women in high-pressure, high-demand and high-stakes jobs."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); CAUCUSES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (75%); BUDGETS (75%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (71%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (70%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (66%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (66%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (50%) Obama, Barack; Pfeiffer, Daniel H; Presidential Election of 2012; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (59%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (59%) Obama, Barack; Pfeiffer, Daniel H

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



877 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: United Nations Visit Diverts Obama From Jobs Message Again

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: The New York trip will serve as an inconvenient hiatus for Mr. Obama's jobs message. 

 BODY:
President Obama drove the day's political news coverage on Monday, using Rose Garden remarks to unveil his long-term deficit proposals and to issue a stern veto threat to Republicans who refuse to consider tax increases.
And then within hours, Mr. Obama was gone - headed to New York City for two days of intense foreign policy negotiations at the annual meeting of the United NationsGeneral Assembly.
The New York trip will serve as an inconvenient hiatus for Mr. Obama's jobs focus and a reminder of the difficulty that presidents have in staying on a single message despite the White House bully pulpit.
Mr. Obama has repeatedly promised a renewed focus on "jobs, jobs, jobs," only to find that promise derailed by external events or his own agenda. In early 2010, White House aides promised a "very hard pivot" to jobs, only to continue a focus on Mr. Obama's health care legislation for months.
Throughout 2010 and into 2011, the White House insisted that its attention would be on the economy and jobs. But critics, including some Democrats, have assailed the president for not doing enough to stay focused as unemployment has stubbornly remained at or above 9 percent and economic growth has stalled.
For the most part, Mr. Obama will be leaving behind the debate on jobs - and the related arguments over how to cut the federal debt - for the duration of his time in New York. In briefings to reporters, aides described a packed schedule that began with a meet-and-greet of United Nations employees Monday night and will end with the president's return late Wednesday night.
Instead of pushing his jobs plan or defending his tax proposals, Mr. Obama will spend the next 48 hours dealing with the new Libyan government and the expected Palestinian demand for recognition by the United Nations and a seat on the Security Council - a step that Mr. Obama has vowed to block.
Instead of engaging in one-on-one phone calls with Congressional leaders on the direction of the special committee charged with the federal debt, Mr. Obama will be holding bilateral meetings with the world's heads of state. 
And the next big speech Mr. Obama will give will be his annual address to the United Nations on Wednesday. National security aides at the White House said the president would address the changes sweeping through Arab countries, the Israeli-Palestinian peace effort, and the draw-downs in the number of United States troops in Afghanistan and Iraq.
(On Monday night he also used his time in New York to squeeze in a fund-raiser at the Waldorf-Astoria. About 60 people were expected to pay $35,800 apiece to support the Obama victory fund, a joint effort between Mr. Obama's campaign and the Democratic National Committee.)
The United Nation's trip is not one of choice. The annual New York meeting is scheduled well in advance, and the American president is always expected to attend.
And a two-day absence from the jobs and deficit debate is hardly going to keep Mr. Obama from playing a significant role in negotiations that are almost certain to drag out well into the winter months. 
But it is an example of the kind of events that can threaten any momentum that the president may develop as he barnstorms the country on behalf of his policies.
Known for his message discipline as a candidate, Mr. Obama has been knocked off his presidential message plenty of times while in office.
In the past two and a half years, Mr. Obama has had to contend with natural disasters, foreign trips and public relations snafus that competed with policy agenda. In 2010, Mr. Obama delayed a planned trip to Indonesia, Guam and Australia so that he could make a final push for passage of health care legislation.
Last November, as he approached a difficult negotiation with Republicans during the lame-duck session of Congress, Mr. Obama spent 10 days in Asia on a foreign trip, followed by a quick two-day summit in Europe and a week-long controversy over aggressive pat-downs from officers for the Transportation Security Administration.
Since announcing his jobs bill before a joint session of Congress on Sept. 8, Mr. Obama has tried to keep a singular focus on the plan, spending practically every day since then giving speeches aimed at keeping the pressure on Republicans.
That intensity of effort has encouraged some of his liberal supporters, who in the past have criticized the president for failing to follow through after a big speech.
Mr. Obama's aides are quick to point out that the president is more than able to focus on more than one thing at a time.
But the New York trip may be the first of several tests this fall of how the president juggles the responsibilities of the presidency and the need to keep that pressure on Republicans for several months.
Expect more such tests between now and Nov. 23, when the Congressional committee on deficit reduction is supposed to finish its work.

        
Stagecraft of the Obama-Boehner Debt Debate
        
Best Political Quotes of the Weekend
        
Five Debt Questions in a Swirl of Uncertainty
        
How 'Gang of Six' Revived Idea of Grand Debt Deal
        
A Debt Ceiling Cheat Sheet: 8 Possible Plans
 http://graphics8.nytimes.com/images/2011/09/19/us/politics/obama-nyc/obama-nyc-blog480.jpgPresident and Mrs. Obama arriving in New York on Monday.Doug Mills/The New York Times

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VETO (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (74%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (62%); FUNDRAISING (60%); HEALTH CARE LAW (53%) barack obama; debt; deficit; taxes; United Nations; Congress; Elections; The 44th President; The Caucus; The White House

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



878 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 270 words

HEADLINE: Ex-A.I.G. Chief Hosts Perry Fund-Raiser

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Rick Perry has criticized the federal bailout of big financial institutions like American International Group, but that will not stop him from taking part in a fund-raiser hosted by the company's former chief. 

 BODY:
Rick Perry minces no words in declaring what he thinks of the 2008 TARP bailout of big banks, saying in his book that such programs "turn America upside down, totally undermining the idea of limited government, free markets and federalism."
But on Tuesday, Mr. Perry will be the guest of honor at a high-dollar, New York fund-raiser thrown by Maurice R. Greenberg, also known as Hank, the former chief executive of the American International Group, a company whose spectacular collapse - three years after Mr. Greenburg left it - helped set the stage for the bailouts that Mr. Perry dislikes.
Mr. Greenberg led A.I.G. for decades and was accused of fraud by the New York State attorney general before leaving his post in 2005. The company ended up taking more than $180 billion in federal aid, including more than $40 billion from the TARP program.
The bailout is not, of course, mentioned on the invitation to Tuesday evening's reception, which is billed as part of Mr. Perry's "Big Apple Kickoff." The reception will be at The Lotus Club and is listed as requiring a contribution of $2,500 per person.
Mark Miner, a spokesman for Mr. Perry, dismissed the connection between Mr. Greenberg and the bank bailouts.
"Doesn't change the fact that Governor Perry was and continues to be against the bailout," Mr. Miner said Tuesday morning.
 An earlier version of this article left unclear Mr. Greenberg's role in the events surrounding the bailout of AIG. Mr. Greenberg's departure from AIG in 2005 came three years before the Federal Reserve engineered an $85 billion bailout of the insurer amid the financial crisis of 2008.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANK FAILURES (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (59%); SUBPRIME LENDING (59%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (54%) Perry, Rick; Emergency Economic Stabilization Act (2008); Subprime Mortgage Crisis; American International Group Inc; Lotus (NYC Nightclub); New York State; American International Group Inc|AIG|NYSE; Campaign Cash; The Caucus

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: American International Group Inc; Lotus (NYC Nightclub)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (84%); 8685 (TSE) (84%) American International Group Inc; AIG; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (94%) Perry, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2011



879 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: White House Deputy Communications Director Steps Down

BYLINE: JACKIE CALMES


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama is losing one of his longest-serving aides, Jennifer Psaki, who has been a witness to the varied crises of his campaign and presidency. 

 BODY:
President Obama is losing one of his longest-serving aides, Jennifer Psaki, who has been a witness to the varied crises of his campaign and presidency and the unflappable and genial point-person to reporters covering those events.
While Mr. Obama tried to dissuade her, Ms. Psaki, the deputy communications director, announced on Tuesday that she will work her last day at the White House on Thursday. In mid-October she will become senior vice president and managing director for the Washington office of Global Strategy Group, a public relations firm that works with corporate, non-profit and political clients. 
One of the most popular people both within the White House and with members of the media, whose relations with other Obama aides often were strained, Ms. Psaki, 32, was an early and easy fit in the "No Drama Obama" team that came together prior to his announcement of his presidential candidacy in February 2007. 
She may have logged more miles with Mr. Obama on the campaign trail than any other aide, acting as his spokesperson to the media entourage in tow. When Mr. Obama moved into the White House, amid a financial crisis and the worst recession since the Depression, Ms. Psaki became a deputy press secretary and was a liaison between reporters and his economic team - in particular Lawrence Summers, the chief White House economic adviser, and Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner - on issues including economic stimulus measures, the overhaul of the financial regulatory system, the auto industry rescue and budget proposals.
After the 2010 midterm elections that saw Republicans take control of the House - among the Democratic casualties was the Ohio congressman for whom Ms. Psaki's husband, Greg Mecher, worked - Mr. Obama reorganized his occasionally fractious and exhausted team. He promoted Ms. Psaki to deputy communications director, responsible for daily response to news events as well as long-range strategic planning.
Dan Pfeiffer, the communications director, said of his deputy, "There is no smarter or better person in politics today than Jen Psaki. For four and half years, Jen has been an absolutely essential member of the president's team."
On one level Ms. Psaki's departure now was predictable; presidents seeking reelection generally expect any senior advisers who want to leave to do so before the campaign year, to limit distractions and turnover. But her timing proved unfortunate when it coincided this week with national attention to a new book on the first half of Mr. Obama's term that reports on resentment among women within the White House about the dominance of some of the men.
"That doesn't reflect my experience," Ms. Psaki said in an interview. "The big secret is there is an incredible bond between the senior women in the White House," she said, adding that they "take pride in being women in high-pressure, high-demand and high-stakes jobs."
 http://graphics8.nytimes.com/images/2011/09/20/us/politics/20caucus-psaki/20caucus-psaki-blog480.jpgJen Psaki joined other top White House aides while President Obama held a press conference in January, including, from left to right, Dan Pfeiffer, David Plouffe and Jay Carney.Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); CAUCUSES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (75%); BUDGETS (75%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (71%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (70%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (66%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (66%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (50%) Obama, Barack; Pfeiffer, Daniel H; Presidential Election of 2012; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (59%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (59%) Obama, Barack; Pfeiffer, Daniel H

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



880 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: White House Deputy Communications Director Steps Down

BYLINE: JACKIE CALMES


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama is losing one of his longest-serving aides, Jennifer Psaki, who has been a witness to the varied crises of his campaign and presidency. 

 BODY:
President Obama is losing one of his longest-serving aides, Jennifer Psaki, who has been a witness to the varied crises of his campaign and presidency and the unflappable and genial point-person to reporters covering those events.
While Mr. Obama tried to dissuade her, Ms. Psaki, the deputy communications director, announced on Tuesday that she will work her last day at the White House on Thursday. In mid-October she will become senior vice president and managing director for the Washington office of Global Strategy Group, a public relations firm that works with corporate, non-profit and political clients. 
One of the most popular people both within the White House and with members of the media, whose relations with other Obama aides often were strained, Ms. Psaki, 32, was an early and easy fit in the "No Drama Obama" team that came together prior to his announcement of his presidential candidacy in February 2007. 
She may have logged more miles with Mr. Obama on the campaign trail than any other aide, acting as his spokesperson to the media entourage in tow. When Mr. Obama moved into the White House, amid a financial crisis and the worst recession since the Depression, Ms. Psaki became a deputy press secretary and was a liaison between reporters and his economic team - in particular Lawrence Summers, the chief White House economic adviser, and Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner - on issues including economic stimulus measures, the overhaul of the financial regulatory system, the auto industry rescue and budget proposals.
After the 2010 midterm elections that saw Republicans take control of the House - among the Democratic casualties was the Ohio congressman for whom Ms. Psaki's husband, Greg Mecher, worked - Mr. Obama reorganized his occasionally fractious and exhausted team. He promoted Ms. Psaki to deputy communications director, responsible for daily response to news events as well as long-range strategic planning.
Dan Pfeiffer, the communications director, said of his deputy, "There is no smarter or better person in politics today than Jen Psaki. For four and half years, Jen has been an absolutely essential member of the president's team."
On one level Ms. Psaki's departure now was predictable; presidents seeking reelection generally expect any senior advisers who want to leave to do so before the campaign year, to limit distractions and turnover. But her timing proved unfortunate when it coincided this week with national attention to a new book on the first half of Mr. Obama's term that reports on resentment among women within the White House about the dominance of some of the men.
"That doesn't reflect my experience," Ms. Psaki said in an interview. "The big secret is there is an incredible bond between the senior women in the White House," she said, adding that they "take pride in being women in high-pressure, high-demand and high-stakes jobs."
 http://graphics8.nytimes.com/images/2011/09/20/us/politics/20caucus-psaki/20caucus-psaki-blog480.jpgJen Psaki joined other top White House aides while President Obama held a press conference in January, including, from left to right, Dan Pfeiffer, David Plouffe and Jay Carney.Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); CAUCUSES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (75%); BUDGETS (75%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (71%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (70%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (66%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (66%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (50%) Obama, Barack; Pfeiffer, Daniel H; Presidential Election of 2012; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (59%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (59%) Obama, Barack; Pfeiffer, Daniel H

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



881 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: Shift in Politics Trips Up Governor in California

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
SACRAMENTO -- Jerry Brown ran for governor on the argument that his age and experience -- the son of a governor, he has spent a lifetime in politics, including two terms as governor himself 30 years ago -- was what California needed to rescue it from a spiral of partisanship and financial decline as destructive as anywhere in the nation.
But 10 months after his return here, a time when Mr. Brown might have hoped to move beyond struggling with the budget crisis that has dragged down this state, his associates say he appears bewildered and stunned by how much Sacramento has changed since he first served.
Mr. Brown has told friends he was unprepared for the extent, in his view, to which Republicans have not made sufficient efforts to accommodate him on critical issues, like putting on the ballot measures to extend taxes to avoid budget cuts. 
In one case, Mr. Brown told a friend, he said he felt like ''we weren't even on the same playing field'' in negotiating face to face with a Republican lawmaker who would not accept his assertion that most money in the California education budget did not go to administrative costs. Mr. Brown said he finally just stood up and left the meeting.
Again and again, he said, he has found that approaches that once worked -- inviting Republicans to dinner rather than attacking them, offering measured concessions on issues like pension cutbacks and spending, trying to rally public support for what he described as balanced proposals -- were no longer effective.
''He is aghast,'' said Jodie Evans, a longtime associate who had recently had dinner with Mr. Brown in Oakland. ''He reports on some of the conversations, like he couldn't believe the narrowness or lack of comprehending by public officials. He said, 'Some of my old tools aren't going to work.' ''
But, she added, ''He is committed to his purpose, focused and on fire.''
Tom Quinn, a longtime political adviser, said Mr. Brown began the term confident that what had worked before would again. ''I was more pessimistic about him getting Republican support,'' Mr. Quinn said, adding, ''He thought I was too bleak in my assessment.''
Mr. Quinn said: ''He is frustrated, he is disappointed. It was entirely different then. It's awful now. He's going to have to come up with another approach.''
Republicans strongly disputed Mr. Brown's view that they have been intransigent, saying that they were prepared to reach a budget compromise but that Mr. Brown was unwilling to give on issues like pension cutbacks or spending caps because of allegiance to labor unions. They said he failed to appreciate how strongly they saw taxes as a threat to the economy.
''The governor needs to stop making excuses and get the job done,'' said Senator Bob Dutton, the Republican leader. ''When he first got elected, I was truly giving him the benefit of the doubt. But I think he actually thought he could operate the same he did when he was governor last time: Strictly pick off votes. This is a different culture.''
Mr. Dutton added: ''He's all talk and no go. He throws a few scraps out there just to get rid of a few cellphones, let's get rid of a few cars, let's demonize the Republicans, and that's supposed to fix a problem?''
At 73, Mr. Brown is certainly indefatigable and remains exceedingly optimistic, as was clear during a cheerful 45-minute interview in his office last week. He said he would propose another budget next year that again offered the Legislature a choice between raising taxes or imposing more cuts, in the belief that at some point, voter backlash to reductions would push some Republicans to act on taxes.
''I mean, how much less school do you want?'' he said.
For all the obstacles, Mr. Brown said he had overseen the passage of an on-time budget for the first time in five years, and sharply reduced the structural budget deficit, producing a markedly better view of California finances from Wall Street.
A Field Poll of California voters released Tuesday reported that Mr. Brown is viewed favorably by 49 percent of respondents; by contrast, 20 percent had a favorable view of the Legislature. Politicians here say the results are respectable given that the state's high unemployment rate and the partisan battle in the legislature.
''Here's the problem: in process-oriented journalism we think that because he didn't get the outcome he wanted, it's a failure,'' said John A. Perez, the Democratic speaker of the Assembly. ''I don't know if there's a single thing he could have done differently to get a different outcome. You have to judge him on the ideas and effort.''
That said, Mr. Brown has found himself at a crossroads: He said he could not think of anything he might have done differently, but said he realized that he probably had to find different approaches going forward. The alternative, he said, was to scale back his ambitions and focus only on legislation that can pass with Democratic support.
Even though Democrats outnumber Republicans in the Legislature, state law requires a two-thirds vote on tax bills.
''The Republicans are far less engaged and independent than they were 30 years ago,'' Mr. Brown said. ''The Republicans then were very independent. Everything was not a party-line vote.''
Now, he said, ''They are afraid. They don't want to move.''
He added: ''You've got to adjust to reality. You can't jump out of a plane without a parachute no matter how much you'd like to get to the ground.''
Some people in both parties thought that Mr. Brown's experience would give him an advantage in dealing with Republicans not enjoyed by, for instance, President Obama. Mr. Brown said experience had helped, if not as much as he wanted.
''I am working with the Legislature. They are doing stuff. We did get a balanced budget on time. We didn't get the tax extensions but we got massive cuts that won praise on Wall Street.''
Darrell Steinberg, the Democratic president of the Senate, said: ''No amount of experience can overcome the context and the nature of the opposition that he is facing. You always feel that reason will prevail in the end. Sometimes it doesn't.''
Those gains came about almost entirely because Democrats agreed to huge spending cuts after Mr. Brown failed on taxes. As part of the budget passed in June, more cuts will take effect if revenues do not meet projections, which seems likely.
Mr. Brown's legacy could very much be defined as being a Democrat who oversaw a huge retrenchment in state government built, in part, by Mr. Brown and his father.
''Managing with less is not pleasant,'' Mr. Brown said.
He invoked the National Legion of Decency -- an outgrowth of the Roman Catholic Church that stood as a watchdog on moral standards in film -- in describing what he said was the decisive power exercised over Republicans by four forces: by anti-tax leaders here and in Washington, by a conservative radio talk show in Los Angeles, and a conservative Web site.
''Any two of those can stop any bill in the Legislature where Republicans are needed,'' Mr. Brown said. Republicans, he added, ''basically work for them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Jerry Brown of California, his wife and advisers studied legislation at his office courtyard. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (75%); REFERENDUMS (68%); EDUCATION FUNDING (66%); LABOR UNIONS (50%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (93%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



882 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 249 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Files Complaint Over Chinese Chicken Tariffs

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- The United States filed a complaint Tuesday with the World Trade Organization that says China violated international trade rules when it imposed tariffs last year on American chicken exports. 
The tariffs affect an industry that employs about 300,000 people, said Ron Kirk, the United States trade representative. They ranged from 50 to 100 percent, which means some Chinese importers paid as much as twice the price for American chicken.
''We will not stand still if we believe that China has violated its commitments as a W.T.O. member and is therefore threatening American jobs,'' Mr. Kirk said.
The case is one of several that trade officials have filed against China this year at the W.T.O. The United States has also filed complaints about Chinese tariffs on steel products and its subsidies of wind power equipment.
The Obama administration has faced pressure to take a tougher line with China. Democrats in the Senate are pushing legislation that would impose sanctions on China for keeping its currency artificially low. That makes China's exports to the United States cheaper and United States exports more expensive in China.
China imposed the poultry tariffs in September 2010. It said American chicken producers benefited from subsidies and were exporting their goods to China at unfairly low prices. Countries are allowed to impose punitive tariffs to offset both practices, but United States officials said China did not follow proper procedures when it imposed them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TARIFFS & DUTIES (93%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); POULTRY (90%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); CHICKEN FARMING (77%); LEGISLATION (67%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%)

PERSON: RON KIRK (71%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



883 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: Tastes of the 1860s, in a War Won Through the Stomach

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

 BODY:
Daniel Mowles preparing roasted rabbits for a tasting of Civil War-era food at the Roger Smith Hotel on Monday.-The chef, it turned out, was from southwest Virginia and grew up in a household that, he said, had inherited some of Robert E. Lee's silverware.
-Those were just coincidences at a tasting of dishes from the Civil War era, prepared according to recipes adapted from cookbooks published between 1861 and 1865.
Here was another coincidence. The tasting was organized by Andrew F. Smith, a faculty member at the New School and the editor in chief of the Oxford Encyclopedia of Food and Drink in America, who said he was distantly related to a Miss Leslie. 
He said she was famous among culinary historians as a 19th-century cookbook writer from Philadelphia. And it was her stewed mutton chops that were on the tasting menu, right after ''Captain Sanderson's boiled pork-and-bean soup'' and before ''Mrs. Haskell's 1861 mashed potatoes.'' That accompanied the roast rabbit.
The tasting, on Monday, took place at a New York hotel, the Roger Smith, on Lexington Avenue. Mr. Smith and the chef, Daniel Mowles, tried for balance between North and South, so there was fried catfish with ''Confederate catsup'' to offset the rabbit, which was served with ''Boston mustard.''
-Before the tasting, Mr. Smith had trouble explaining his affinity for the Civil War.
He grew up in Southern California - ''no battlefields around,'' he said. He said his great-grandfather might have fought in the Civil War, but the family ''never talked about it.'' But he said the first 10 books he read as a child were about the Civil War, as is the latest of the 15 he has written: ''Starving the South: How the North Won the Civil War,'' published in April.
It describes how the nation went from a local to a national culinary economy during the war and how the North used food to its advantage - but the South did not.
-''In the South, the pre-eminent agricultural region,'' he said, ''they didn't have the bureaucrats the North had who could organize the food system, who could say, 'If we don't make basic decisions about food we're not going to make it through a long war.' So you had starvation and riots. I've got records of at least 40 riots that occurred, mainly in Southern cities, particularly with women whose husbands were in the Army and were small landowners. They couldn't plant crops and they didn't have the manpower to do the things necessary to keep them alive by the end of the war.''
That contributed to food shortages that hampered the Confederates. The North singled out Southern port cities and cut off the South's imports of food - imports that were essential because Southern planters continued to grow their profitable cotton and tobacco crops rather than switch to food crops. Mr. Smith said the Confederate Army grew thin while Union soldiers ate well.
''Where the Union Army occupied Confederate areas,'' he said, ''they made those same foods available to virtually anyone who would sign an oath of allegiance to the United States. Even when Sherman marched through Georgia and North Carolina, they destroyed food but they also made it available. It was a strange mixture of abundance and organization and trying to get the Southerners back into the union - and food was one of the ways they did it.''
He said that 60,000 Confederate solders deserted in the last four months. ''The No. 1 reason was they didn't have food,'' he said.
No. 2, he said, was they did not have money - which they could have used to buy food. And No. 3, based on letters from soldiers' families that he read in his research, was, ''We're going to starve unless you come home and help us plant.''
So the deserters ''voted with their stomachs, and voted for their families,'' he said.
The North even created a holiday that featured food - Thanksgiving. It was, Mr. Smith says, the nation's third national holiday, after Washington's Birthday and Independence Day. Lincoln established it in 1864, Mr. Smith said, and Northerners sent turkeys, pies and puddings to Union soldiers.
In the kitchen at the Roger Smith, Mr. Mowles, the hotel's executive chef, had equipment the soldiers did not, like a six-burner Vulcan stove with a griddle and an exhaust hood. He also had memories from growing up in Virginia.
''We'd eat spoonbread a lot,'' he said, ''and a lot of fried chicken. And we have Robert E. Lee's silverware that we eat on at Thanksgiving. It's engraved. Somebody in our family was a doctor. After the war, Lee became poor and couldn't pay his medical bills.''
-So what did the food at the tasting taste like? More like a modern meal than you might expect, according to Mr. Smith.
One reason was that Mr. Mowles had decided not to use lard. ''Lard was America's No. 1 frying ingredient,'' Mr. Smith said. ''It would have been used in everything where today we'd use vegetable oil or butter. He put butter in a lot of the biscuits, where historically they would have used lard.''
-Mr. Smith said the biscuits were drier than 21st century biscuits. ''They weren't using preservatives, so it was make 'em and eat 'em,'' Mr. Smith said.
And some of the items on the menu were far less sweet than if they had been made from contemporary recipes. ''The apple pie had much less sugar,'' Mr. Smith said. ''Even in the 1860s, while sugar was plentiful, food would not have been as sweet as we love it today. And he didn't put as much salt in. Historically, it all would have had a great deal more salt.''
-The rabbit, Mr. Smith said, was closer to what rabbit would have tasted like in the Civil War.
-''It almost tasted like chicken,'' Mr. Smith said after the tasting. ''He did it by broiling it, so many of the juices dropped out. It was not stringy, particularly, but it was less juicy, and that was the correct way.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Daniel Mowles, executive chef at the Roger Smith, a New York hotel, with a tray of roast rabbit, part of an 1860s tasting menu. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); STARVATION (89%); HISTORY (78%); WRITERS (76%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



884 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: West Hollywood to Ban Sale of Fur Garments

BYLINE: By IAN LOVETT

 BODY:
WEST HOLLYWOOD, Calif.-- This is a small city, a mere 1.9 square miles, with about 36,000 residents. But lawmakers here nonetheless see themselves as national trendsetters.
Early Tuesday morning, the City Council unanimously approved an ordinance that would ban the sale of fur apparel -- the first such ban in the nation, city officials believe. A final vote will take place in October before the measure becomes law.
The ordinance is only the latest in an ever-growing list of eye-popping, often symbolic measures that legislators here have passed in hopes of pushing animal rights and other causes onto the national stage. The city was among the first to ban cat declawing, sales of inexpensive handguns sometimes known as Saturday Night Specials, and the sale of dogs and cats in pet stores (though, by that time, no pet stores in the city sold so-called companion animals). 
''This is a tiny city, so it's mostly symbolic,'' said Councilman John D'Amico, who sponsored the fur ban. ''I think the impact will be heard from here to Fifth Avenue. People will talk about what a fur ban means in a new way.''
Council members acknowledged that shoppers in search of furs can buy as many as they want at boutiques just a few blocks away in Beverly Hills.
But Mr. D'Amico hopes other governments around the country will take notice. After the city banned the sale of cheap handguns, in 1996,many other municipalities followed suit, and eventually the entire state of California cracked down on such guns .
Animals rights advocates called the fur ban a landmark victory. But while many previous animal rights ordinances passed in West Hollywood without much opposition, the fur ban has pitted the city's animal rights lobby against its powerful high-fashion community.
Genevieve Morrill, president of the West Hollywood Chamber of Commerce, said the fur ban -- which prohibits the sale of fur clothing, but exempts leather and fur used in furniture -- would not change the country's attitude about fur, but would punish West Hollywood's retailers.
''It would absolutely diminish the city as a fashion capital,'' Ms. Morrill said.
Mr. D'Amico said the city was still awaiting a financial impact study, which council members will consider before the final vote, but he expected the new ordinance's effect on retailers to be minimal.
But Keith Kaplan, executive director of the Fur Information Council of America, said his group commissioned an economic study, which found that 46 percent of apparel retailers in West Hollywood sold fur, and that more than 7 percent of retailers in the city said they would move out of West Hollywood if the ban passed.
''The animal rights lobby is clearly not having the impact they hope for with customers,'' Mr. Kaplan said. ''People are still buying fur. If people were not buying it, stores wouldn't want to sell it. So the animal rights lobby is trying to force through a ban on a legal product.''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 23, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Wednesday about a decision by West Hollywood, Calif., to ban the sale of fur garments referred imprecisely to an ordinance that banned the sale of dogs and cats in pet stores there. While the city was one of the first to ban such sales of dogs and cats, most stores had already quit selling them by the time the ordinance passed. It is not the case that the city passed such an ordinance even ''though no pet stores in the city sold so-called companion animals.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fur items for sale at Kitson, a boutique in West Hollywood. The city has voted to ban the sale of clothing made of or containing fur -- the first such measure in the nation, city leaders believe. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); PETS (90%); ORDINANCES (90%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (90%); CATS (90%); ANIMALS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); RETAILERS (89%); FIREARMS (89%); PET STORES & SUPPLIES (88%); LOBBYING (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); DOGS (70%); EXECUTIVES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011



885 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: Risks Seen for Children Of Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

 BODY:
Children whose parents are illegal immigrants or who lack legal status themselves face ''uniformly negative'' effects on their social development from early childhood until they become adults, according to a study by four researchers published Wednesday in the Harvard Educational Review.
The study concluded that more than five million children in the United States are ''at risk of lower educational performance, economic stagnation, blocked mobility and ambiguous belonging'' because they are growing up in immigrant families affected by illegal status. 
The study is the first to pull together field research by social scientists nationwide to track the effects of a family's illegal immigration status on children from birth until they graduate from college and start to navigate the job market. It covers immigrants from a variety of origins, including Latinos and Asians.
About 5.5 million children in this country have at least one parent who is an illegal immigrant, according to an estimate by the Pew Hispanic Center. Among them, about one million children were brought here illegally by their parents, while about 4.5 million are United States citizens because they were born here.
In all, about 9.5 million people live in ''mixed status'' families that include American citizen children and unauthorized immigrants, Jeffrey S. Passel, senior demographer at the Pew center, said on Tuesday.
''Unauthorized status casts a big shadow that really extends to citizen as well as undocumented children,'' Marcelo Suarez-Orozco, a professor of education at New York University who is an author of the study, said on Tuesday. ''It affects their cognitive development, engagement in school and their ability to be emerging citizens.''
The Harvard study reports that ''fear and vigilance'' guide the home lives of young children whose parents are illegal immigrants, making the parents significantly less likely to engage with teachers or be active in schools.
Parents' fears of deportation led to lower levels of enrollment of their American children in public programs for which the children were legally eligible, including child care subsidies, public preschool and food stamps, the study found.
The other authors were Carola Suarez-Orozco and Robert T. Teranishi of New York University and Hirokazu Yoshikawa of the Harvard Graduate School of Education.
Many illegal immigrant parents work long hours in low-wage jobs, sometimes more than one job. New research on very young children cited in the Harvard study showed that the undocumented parents' difficult work conditions ''contribute substantially to the lower cognitive skills of children in their families.'' This was true even though the children were more likely to be in two-parent families than American children as a whole.
As teenagers, children without legal status face a hard awakening when they apply for jobs, driver's licenses or financial aid for college and discover they are not legally qualified for any of them. Their paths diverge from siblings who are American citizens by birthright.
''In late adolescence, they start to realize their legal limitations, and their worlds turn completely upside down,'' said Roberto G. Gonzales, a sociologist at the University of Chicago whose research on college-age illegal immigrants is cited in the Harvard study.
Academic achievement does little to lift the prospects of illegal immigrants who have grown up here. Out of 150 immigrants Professor Gonzales studied in depth, 31 had completed college or advanced degrees, but none were in a career that matched their educational training. Many were working low-wage jobs like their parents.
The Harvard study found that many illegal immigrant youths, facing the ''reduced promise of mobility,'' had dropped out of school and begun the search for work they could do without legal papers, ''forced deeper and deeper into an underground work force.''
The researchers said that a generation of young illegal immigrants raised in this country was moving toward ''perpetual outsider-hood.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (94%); CHILDREN (92%); IMMIGRATION (91%); RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); FAMILY (90%); CHILD CARE (79%); PARENTS (79%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (77%); WRITERS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); DEPORTATION (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (69%); LICENSES & PERMITS (60%); DRIVERS LICENSES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



886 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1754 words

HEADLINE: Throwing Out the Recipe for Daytime TV

BYLINE: By JULIA MOSKIN

 BODY:
UNDER the hot lights of ABC's Studio 2 last week, a mound of hamburger meat glistened, as pink and moist as the chef Mario Batali's forehead. Dozens of assistants, makeup artists and publicists watched in rapt silence as Carla Hall, a ''recovering caterer'' who has competed twice on Bravo's ''Top Chef,'' rehearsed a segment on turkey wraps.
Suddenly, the loud and unmistakably Australian tones of the producer Gordon Elliott rang out. ''I need a housewife!'' he bellowed, and a producer scurried onto the set to stand in for a mother seeking advice on school lunch.
This was one of the final rehearsals for ''The Chew,'' an hourlong daily talk show dedicated entirely to food, which will make its debut next week. It's the first new daytime show on ABC since the program it is winkingly modeled on, ''The View,'' went on the air in 1997. ''The Chew'' will fill the 1-to 2-p.m. slot now occupied by ''All My Children,'' which will end its more than 40-year run on ABC on Friday. 
As of Monday, Susan Lucci's cheekbones will be out, bone-in chicken will be in. ''The Chew'' has five full-time hosts: Mr. Batali; Ms. Hall; Michael Symon, the ''Iron Chef'' stalwart and Cleveland native; Clinton Kelly, who is also a co-host of the fashion show ''What Not to Wear''; and Daphne Oz, the 25-year-old daughter of Dr. Mehmet Oz (yes, that Dr. Oz), who plays her role of wide-eyed cooking apprentice beautifully. Together, they will cook, chat, taste and -- if rehearsals are any indication -- refer frequently to their own lives and ''stories.''
Soap opera fans looking for their old story lines may instead find themselves watching Mr. Batali saying things like, ''If you have garam masala in your cupboard, you probably haven't used it since you were smoking pot in the '80s.'' (''The Chew'' is unscripted, and will eventually be broadcast live, a decision surprising to those familiar with Mr. Batali's uninhibited conversational style.)
''The Chew'' is one of the many new food shows that are sprouting not only in the expected places like the Food Network and its sibling, the Cooking Channel, but also on TLC, Discovery, Outdoor, Spike and ABC. Americans' growing interest in food is generating a seemingly indigestible glut of culinary programming in just about every time slot. Last month, the Food Network tied its own ratings record, according to Nielsen Media Research, and had more male viewers than ever before. Both statistics have been trending higher since 2009.
''We are seeing a constant thirst for more food programming,'' said Andy Donchin, the director of media investments at Carat, a global marketing services firm. ''The Chew,'' he said, was proof that the food niche has become big enough to earn its own talk show, and that network television was still where food advertisers want to be, despite the changing media scene. ''Reports of the death of television have been highly exaggerated,'' he said.
But things are not what they were when ''All My Children'' ruled the afternoon. With soap-loving housewives who ironed in front of the TV all afternoon giving way to frenetic soccer moms; with DVRs in charge of the broadcast schedule in many households; and with unemployment affecting so many sectors of the population, especially men and younger Americans, the daytime audience has changed.
So has the audience for food television. Mr. Batali said that in the 1960s, his mother was a devoted fan of ''The Galloping Gourmet,'' the first popular American cooking show hosted by a man, Graham Kerr, who managed to feign a sexy banter with his invisible female viewers. ''He was the tickle of her tickles,'' Mr. Batali said, ''but I didn't see any men watching that show.'' Now, he said, food programming has to tickle everyone.
Continuing a longtime trend, this fall's new food shows -- including ''The Chew'' -- will be more about people and places and less about actual cooking. Veteran producers like Dave Serwatka, who has worked on all nine seasons of ''Top Chef'' at Bravo, say that chefs are now more compelling as people than as professionals.
Bravo's next food-competition show, now in production, will take chefs even farther away from their expertise at the stove: in ''Around the World in 80 Plates,'' the contestants will be flown into unfamiliar territory, kitchens in Thailand or Morocco or Spain, and forced to master the local culinary idiom in 24 hours. As in so many of today's gonzo food-tourism shows, a genre pioneered by Anthony Bourdain, how viewers might absorb these lessons into their own kitchens is clearly not of concern. ''Food adventures are what our viewers are looking for,'' Mr. Serwatka said.
In this atmosphere, the old-school 30-minute show devoted to actually teaching a recipe now seems impossibly slow. Where's the challenge? Where's the competition? Where's the crying?
Nadia Giosia offers a different kind of food adventure, teasing viewers on her show, ''Bitchin' Kitchen.'' She positions herself as a rebel against fancy food, a fast and funny outsider whose kitten-with-a-whisk persona incorporates corsets, cleavage, mood stabilizers and a dislike for small children. Earnest culinary instruction, in her view, is not the way to seduce an audience.
''Nobody likes to be lectured to,'' said Ms. Giosia, who reported that female comedians of the 1980s, like Roseanne Barr, are her greatest influence. She produced her own show online before it was picked up by the Cooking Channel, where it has become one of the young network's highest-rated half-hours. ''People were getting sick of the vanilla,'' she said about teaching shows.
Barring a few curveballs like Ms. Giosia, food ''personalities'' still occupy a short spectrum: at one end, the approachable, like Carla Hall (in the tradition of Ina Garten); at the other, the terrifying, like Ron Ben-Israel (in the vein of Gordon Ramsay), a famously dismissive New York City cake designer who will act as judge, jury and executioner on a new Food Network competition series, ''Sweet Genius.''
''Ron is the Dr. Evil of the food world,'' said Bob Tuschman, an executive who has worked at the Food Network for 13 years. ''He's authoritative, commanding and somewhat frightening.''
''The Chew'' is not interested in frightening anyone. Months ago, a pilot was cast, shot and discarded when test audiences were unnerved by the lack of familiar faces. Two of the relatively unknown hosts were reassigned as occasional correspondents, and Mr. Elliott's production company went looking for big-name talent, quickly casting Ms. Hall, Mr. Symon and Mr. Kelly. Mr. Batali arrived on set for the first time on Sept. 8.
Now, the cast is set to encompass a mix of oldish and young, black and white, gay and straight, men and women, chefs and civilians. Ms. Oz, the only holdover from the first lineup, is a newlywed and a virtual vegetarian. Although now sylphlike, she says that she was overweight when she began college and has written about her triumphant 30-pound weight loss.
''She was cast by God,'' Mr. Elliott said in an interview.
''The Chew'' is not a celebrity gabfest with a food hook, like Rachael Ray's. It's far from a classic ''dump and stir'' half-hour. It's not a mano-a-mano kitchen takedown. Although somewhat bland, and not as meaty as it could be, it's an attempt to engage daily with Americans about home cooking.
On camera, the hosts will cook together, and in real time. The show's culinary producer, Ashley Archer, said that her mandate was to minimize the use of precut, premeasured ingredients and ''swaps,'' the usual tricks that speed up the cooking process on camera. (When Martha Stewart goes to her oven and pulls out perfectly browned pastry puffs that went in just seconds ago, that's a swap.)
Is that what viewers want?
The stakes are high for ABC, which has already invested more than a year of preproduction in the show. Kraft, Campbell's, Hershey's and General Mills have all bought advertising on ''The Chew,'' and the opportunities for product placement and sponsorship built into the format are enormous.
In its unisex appeal, its real-world recipes and its tone of manic playfulness, ''The Chew'' claims to be a fresh take on food television. Does it represent a brave new frontier? A retreat behind the domestic firewall in perilous times? Or depressing evidence that little has changed in American kitchens -- on the air and off -- since the 1950s?
''Let's face it: this is a cliche parade for women,'' said Laura Shapiro, a historian of both food and feminism and author of books on ''The Joy of Cooking'' and Julia Child. After watching previews of the shows that are available online, she noted that its two accomplished chefs were both men; that the two women on the show were presented as giddy and lacking in authority; and that its culinary ambitions were set extremely low. Child, she noted, reached a mass audience for years, appearing on ''Good Morning America'' in the 1970s.
''Her idea was not that you had to candy-coat everything for people, dumb down the food and have a pajama party in their kitchen,'' Ms. Shapiro said. ''You treat them with respect and make them believe they can do what you do.''
Indeed, while there are useful tricks to be picked up on the set of ''The Chew'' -- like draining out the brine from jarred capers and olives and then covering them with olive oil to improve their flavor -- it is odd to put a chef of Mr. Batali's abilities to work making three-ingredient sloppy Joes from ground beef, salsa and tomato paste. ''I'll take that hit,'' said Mr. Elliott, who, as the executive producer for the Food Network shows starring Paula Deen, is accustomed to fending off jabs at recipes that are too fatty, too sweet or just plain tacky. ''We are using the recipes that are part of their stories, the food they really cook at home,'' he said. ''When they are here, they are not chefs. They are people.''
Ms. Hall won a huge fan following on ''Top Chef'' precisely because she seems like a person who happens to be an extremely good cook -- rather than a chef, with all the attitude and cockiness that conveys. In fact, her relief at having given up professional cooking on Jan. 1 of this year is palpable. ''I cannot spend all my days and nights at the stove at age 47,'' she said.
But pleasure in her new gig radiates from the set, too. Riffing over a demonstration of grilled cheese sandwiches with arugula pesto, Ms. Hall sent a triumphant shout-out to the clients of her former lunch-delivery service in Washington:
''Look where I'm making my sandwiches now, y'all!''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FOODIES: Stars of ''The Chew,'' which will start on ABC on Monday. From left, Mario Batali, Michael Symon, Carla Hall, Daphne Oz and Clinton Kelly. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
REBELS: Nadia Giosia, left, and Ron Ben-Israel are two unconventional food personalities. Ms. Giosia teases viewers on her show, ''Bitchin' Kitchen,'' while Mr. Ben-Israel has been described as the ''Dr. Evil of the food world.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY COOKING CHANNEL
 FOOD NETWORK)(D5) DRAWING (DRAWING BY NATHAN JARVIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAYTIME TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (88%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (88%); CATERING SERVICES (78%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (78%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (78%); FASHION SHOWS (67%)

COMPANY: NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (80%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTRALIA (57%); UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



887 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: In 7-Page Note, Drug Lord Asks a Judge for Leniency

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN WEISER

 BODY:
''Good day to you, sir,'' the letter to the judge began. ''I am humbly asking if you could be lenient on me.''
Judges receive letters all the time from defendants who are about to be sentenced, but this letter, seven pages long and neatly handprinted, came from no ordinary prisoner.
The writer was Christopher M. Coke, described by United States prosecutors as one of Jamaica's most brutal drug lords. He led a trafficking ring from an armed stronghold in Kingston, moving guns and drugs between Jamaica and the United States, prosecutors said, and his soldiers patrolled the streets and guarded stash houses. He ordered murders, shootings and beatings, and, when one man stole drugs, the prosecutors said, Mr. Coke killed him with a chain saw. 
Last year, Mr. Coke was arrested and sent to Manhattan, where he has since pleaded guilty to conspiracy charges. He could receive a 23-year sentence.
And it was in that context that Mr. Coke, 42, took it upon himself to send a polite letter to the judge, Robert P. Patterson Jr. of Federal District Court.
Addressing him as ''Justice Patterson,'' Mr. Coke said he accepted responsibility for his actions, although he did not apologize in the letter. And he asked that the judge use his ''discretion'' to sentence him ''below the guideline range.''
In doing so, Mr. Coke offered a list of 13 reasons, with some broken into subcategories. For one thing, he said, he had lost his mother recently. ''I was told that while she was on her deathbed, she was crying and kept calling my name.''
And his 8-year-old son had been traumatized by his arrest, he said. ''I was told that he is constantly asking for his daddy,'' Mr. Coke explained, adding ''He cries all the times since I am gone.''
Mr. Coke also complained that because he would be deported after serving his sentence, he would leave the country ''without the possibility of ever visiting'' his brother or other relatives who he said lived here.
Mr. Coke also described ''charitable deeds and social services'' that he said he had provided to his community, including efforts for the elderly, the unemployed, parents and a ''back-to-school treat'' for students that included school bags, books, pens, pencils and uniforms.
He had even organized a parent committee, he said, which made sure that children and teenagers were off the streets by 8 p.m., Sunday through Thursday.
Federal prosecutors had no comment on the Sept. 7 letter, which was signed ''Sincerely, C. Coke'' and mailed from the Metropolitan Correctional Center, where Mr. Coke is being held. His lawyers said he wrote the letter without their assistance. One, Frank A. Doddato, said the letter ''humanized'' his client. The other, Stephen H. Rosen, said: ''There are two sides to Christopher Coke. Everyone only talks about one side.''
Of course, Judge Patterson will hear about the other side, from prosecutors and victims. At least one victim has already written. Maxine Riley, who described herself as a resident of the western Kingston area, asked the judge to impose a life sentence.
She contended that Mr. Coke was personally responsible for the deaths of hundreds of Jamaicans, including her son, Dexter, who she said was killed by Mr. Coke's gunmen when he was 16.
''I hope that you exercise your judicial discretion to put him away forever,'' she wrote. ''Mr. Coke is the Hitler of the Caribbean; this is an opportunity for him and his murderous organization to be permanently dismantled.''
A defendant's decision to write to a judge can backfire, but such letters can also be effective.
Mark S. Dreier, a former prominent lawyer who pleaded guilty in a fraud scheme in 2009, sent a four-page, single-spaced letter to the judge, Jed S. Rakoff, calling his own crimes ''inexcusable'' and saying he expected and deserved a significant prison sentence. Judge Rakoff cited the letter at the sentencing, saying it reflected ''a maturity that I was surprised to see.'' Prosecutors had asked for 145 years; Mr. Dreier, then 59, was given 20 years. ''In my view,'' his lawyer Gerald L. Shargel, recalled, the letter ''had a significant effect on the outcome.''
Douglas A. Berman, a sentencing law expert at Ohio State University, said there was debate among legal scholars about how much weight judges should give to a defendant's comments before sentencing.
''Most defense attorneys, I think, would view this kind of correspondence, if done effectively, as a kind of sentencing chicken soup,'' he said. ''We're not sure if it's going to help, but it certainly can't hurt.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christopher M. Coke 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); MURDER (77%); PRISONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CONSPIRACY (76%); ARRESTS (76%); SHOOTINGS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); WRITERS (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); CHILDREN (64%); DEPORTATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) JAMAICA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2011



888 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: Dominican Aid to Haiti: An Ambassador's View

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''As Refugees From Haiti Linger, Dominicans' Good Will Fades'' (front page, Aug. 31) rightly highlights the serious challenges still faced by Haiti and its people. However, in describing the alleged fading good will of Dominicans, your article does not mention that the Dominican Republic is currently the largest giver of aid to Haiti as a proportion of gross domestic product in the world, despite the many developmental challenges it still faces as a middle-income country. 
As is the case in any country with a less prosperous neighbor, the Dominican Republic does face immigration pressures relating to the constant influx of Haitians looking for better prospects. As our country improves its capacity to enforce our own laws and regulations, it is better able to guarantee that the rights of both Dominican citizens and foreigners are respected.
Despite the repeated references in your article to what you call a ''new law'' on citizenship, what is being perceived as a change in the jus solis right in the Constitution Reform of 2010 was really only a clarification of a principle established since the beginning of our republic, precluding the automatic granting of nationality to the children of foreign citizens without a legal status in the country. The constitutionality of the principle was validated by a Supreme Court decision in 2005.
We believe that it is of the utmost importance to address the fundamental causes of Haitian illegal migration to the Dominican Republic by creating in Haiti the conditions needed to allow its citizens to lead dignified and productive lives.
The continued support of the international community -- and the fight against ''waning international sympathy'' -- is indispensable for the development in Haiti of the capabilities needed to rebuild the country and create opportunities for its people.
ANIBAL DE CASTRO Ambassador of the Dominican Republic Washington, Sept. 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFUGEES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); IMMIGRATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (71%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (52%); APPEALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (96%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



889 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW 'REVENGE'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: When It's Payback Time in the Gilded Hamptons

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
The president hasn't punished the rich, and neither has Congress. There is plenty of resentment for the wealthiest Americans, who have coasted through the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression without a tax increase or a dip in lifestyle.
And, fittingly enough, ''Revenge,'' an ABC series starting on Wednesday, is set in the Hamptons. Emily VanCamp plays Emily Thorne, a young woman bent on getting even with the rich family that ruined her father. It's ''Gossip Girl'' tailored to this economy, with just enough campy suspense to be enjoyable.
''Revenge'' is loosely based on ''The Count of Monte Cristo,'' and it's not the only new series that borrows from Alexandre Dumas to skewer the rich. On ''Ringer,'' a CW show that began this month, Sarah Michelle Gellar plays identical twins, one of whom assumes the identity of the other, like those in ''The Man in the Iron Mask.'' ''Ringer'' is even less subtle than ''Revenge'' in its depiction of the happy few; one early sign that the rich twin, a socialite with a house in the Hamptons, is the evil one is a scene with her in a chignon and an Hermes scarf, willfully steering a speedboat. 
Not all of the new fall shows focus as intently on class warfare, but a significant number find ways to work in a kick at Wall Street greed and Bernard L. Madoff. One of the heroines of the CBS sitcom ''2 Broke Girls'' is a Paris Hilton-like heiress who is forced to work as a waitress in Brooklyn when her father's financial fraud implodes, and her trust fund is frozen, along with the family assets. ABC's remake of ''Charlie's Angels'' is a shameless homage to '70s Aaron Spelling schlock, yet it too takes a shot at present-day Wall Street. The Farrah-esque angel named Abby (Rachael Taylor) is the estranged daughter of a Wall Street legend who turns out to have been a crook.
While undercover as a server at a Miami party, Abby runs into two former Dalton classmates who smirk at her lowly job. ''Considering what your father did, I'd call it payback,'' one says with a Park Avenue glare.
On ''Revenge,'' payback is what draws Emily back to the beach house where she spent summers with her doting father. It is next door to the estate of Victoria Grayson, an icily seductive society matron (Madeleine Stowe). Victoria, who even in Herve Leger bandage dresses looks like the evil queen in ''Snow White,'' reigns over the Hamptons beau monde with the same silky hauteur that keeps her husband, Conrad (Henry Czerny), in line.
And her children. When Victoria's teenage daughter, Charlotte (Christa Allen), shows off a new bikini, Victoria orders her to change. ''It's important to me that you don't end up on Page 6 at one of Diddy's hot tub parties,'' she says dryly.
There must be a Diddy drinking game going on behind network doors because Sean Combs's stage name keeps being dropped on all kinds of shows. Either that, or writers worry that most viewers don't know the ways of the rich and less famous and use Mr. Combs's once legendary summer white parties in the Hamptons as code for excess and privilege. The characters on ''Gossip Girl'' attended a white party. On ''Charlie's Angels'' Abby is reluctant to believe that a well-known businessman is part of a human smuggling ring.
''Time out: Rodrigo is a multimillionaire,'' she exclaims. ''He throws more white parties than Diddy!''
Emily on ''Revenge'' has to get herself into those kinds of parties to settle scores with the many people she is determined to hurt and humiliate. They of course don't have any idea who she really is, but are instead drawn to her enigmatic charm and air of effortless wealth. Ms. VanCamp, a svelte beauty with a withholding smile, is well cast; so is Gabriel Mann, who plays Nolan, an upper-class twit in seersucker and yachting cap who actually made his own fortune the new-fashioned way, via the Internet.
Flashbacks quickly reveal that the Graysons next door framed Emily's father so he'd take the fall for a crooked business deal. Emily became a juvenile delinquent and never knew her father was innocent. By the time she finds out, it is too late for anything except to punish those responsible. Or, as she puts it in a prologue, ''This is not a story about forgiveness.''
Mostly, ''Revenge'' is a corrective to past nighttime soap operas about the filthy rich that didn't punish them enough, from ''Dallas'' and ''Dynasty'' to more recent iterations, like ''The OC'' and ''Gossip Girl.'' Those series had token have-nots among the characters, but their grievances were easily eclipsed by the panache and over-the-top fashion choices of the haves-and-want-mores.
''Revenge'' isn't a breakthrough, by any means, but it does offer a different take on female rivalry, an evolution that is in tune with bad times but that, symbolically at least, also reflects women's greater responsibility for the economy. Catfights on ''Dallas'' and Dynasty'' were over a man and packaged as farce: hair-pulling, dress-ripping brawls between Linda Evans and Joan Collins. ''Gossip Girl'' focuses on mean-girl power struggles, with malice as the weapon of choice.
This series pits a younger woman against the older one who stole her fortune. More than sex, love or friendship, money is the currency of power, and women are those pursuing it.
The rich get richer on ''Revenge,'' and the poor get even.
REVENGE
ABC, Wednesdays at 10, Eastern and Pacific times; 9, Central time.
Produced by ABC Studios. Written by Mike Kelley; Mr. Kelley, Marty Bowen, Wyck Godfrey and Phillip Noyce (pilot only), executive producers.
WITH: Emily VanCamp (Emily Thorne), Madeleine Stowe (Victoria Grayson), Henry Czerny (Conrad Grayson), Josh Bowman (Daniel Grayson), Nick Wechsler (Jack Porter), Gabriel Mann (Nolan Ross), Ashley Madekwe (Ashley Davenport), Christa B. Allen (Charlotte Grayson) and Connor Paolo (Declan Porter).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Revenge: Emily VanCamp, left, and Ashley Madekwe in a new series on ABC that treats the highs and lows of Southampton, N.Y., where an innnocent man can be framed by his elegant friends and neighbors.(C1)
 Emily VanCamp, left, plays a woman out to settle scores with a wealthy matriarch (Madeleine Stowe, center), and others. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANTONY PLATT/ABC)(C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); TAX LAW (78%); WOMEN (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (75%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (72%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (72%); FASHION DESIGNERS (70%)

PERSON: PARIS HILTON (57%); BERNARD MADOFF (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



890 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Reverse Post-9/11 Slump in Chinatown, Jostling Hub of Gems and Foot Rubs

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
It was little more than 10 years ago that Vincent Fung could count on a steady trickle of office workers from the World Trade Center area or Wall Street to wander into his jewelry shop in Chinatown. His customers would often splurge on diamond rings or watches because they had just saved money eating a $5.25 chopstick lunch along Mott or Pell Streets.
''Now those office workers are gone, and the tourists are gone,'' Mr. Fung lamented the other day. 
Like Mr. Fung's shop, Chinatown, by most accounts, has never recovered from Sept. 11. There was the sheer loss of so many customers and an aftermath that turned the blocks below Canal Street into a frozen zone for months. Visitors hunting for medicinal herbs, foot rubs or that $5.25 lunch found it difficult to penetrate armed checkpoints. Trucks could not deliver or pick up goods at garment factories and novelty shops.
The lagging neighborhood economy explains why some merchants like Mr. Fung, real estate developers and local elected officials are pressing the City Council to pass a bill to carve out a Chinatown Business Improvement District to join those that many believe have helped invigorate 64 neighborhoods, including Times Square and Union Square.
A business improvement district, an idea that has been percolating in the community for many years, would assess property owners annual fees to enhance street cleaning, outdoor lighting, security, tourism and signs to steer visitors. Wellington Chen, executive director of the Chinatown Partnership Local Development Corporation, estimates that 35 percent of the neighborhood's 1,891 property owners would pay $200 or less a year and 74 percent less than $1,000.
But many property owners oppose the plan, contending that they have been scraping by since Sept. 11 and cannot afford even small increases in expenses.
Jan Lee, whose family owns buildings on Mott Street, the incomparable heart of Chinatown celebrated by the Rodgers and Hart song ''Manhattan,'' fears that if he passes a $2,000 fee onto his commercial tenants he will drive them out. Opponents point out that in business improvement districts like Times Square's, a good share of the fees are paid by large companies and banks.
Lam Sai Hung, 72, owner of Hop Lee Restaurant on Mott Street, said he already washed the sidewalk in front of his restaurant every day and paid a private carter $1,100 a month to take away his garbage.
''Why do I need to spend more and more?'' he said.
But Mr. Fung and other business-district proponents see such attitudes as shortsighted.
''They don't see the bigger picture,'' Mr. Fung said. ''The more business you have, the higher the value of your property will be. You may pay a little more taxes, but you will get a little more rent.''
The critics seem resigned to losing because they expect Council members to defer to the local councilwoman, Margaret Chin, a champion of the business district. The Council's Finance Committee is scheduled to vote on a business district on Wednesday, and a full Council vote could come soon after.
''It's not something new; it's something that has been tried,'' Ms. Chin said. ''Chinatown can benefit, too. Cleaner, brighter streets will attract more visitors and make Chinatown connect to surrounding neighborhoods.''
Chinatown, with its jostling sidewalks narrowed by bins heaping with live crabs, dried shrimp, arrow root and porcelain dishes, is still as tantalizing as ever. Merchants, restaurateurs and residents from hundreds of miles away stream in on low-price Chinese-owned buses to get their menus printed, kitchens stocked or prescriptions filled by people who speak Mandarin, Cantonese or Fujianese.
The weekly influx explains the location of four eyeglass shops in little more than a block of Mott Street and is seen by some as an encouraging economic trend.
Still, Chinatown's economy is ailing.
The frozen zone proved to be the coup de grace for a declining local garment industry that at its peak employed over 30,000 workers, according to John Lam, who owned 14 factories but now builds hotels and supports the business district. Those garment workers literally fed off Chinatown, dining in its easy-on-the-pocket restaurants or taking home ginger and roast duck.
With the number of apparel factories down to a few dozen, many workers have been retrained as home health aides, but the elderly they serve are dispersed around the five boroughs.
''We lost all those women carrying home plastic bags of merchandise,'' said Mr. Lee, the Mott Street landlord.
Tiffany Townsend, a spokeswoman for NYC & Company, the city's tourism arm, said the number of visitors had risen to 300,000 a year from about 200,000 in 2004, but local business people say tourism is nowhere near its pre-Sept. 11 heyday. And according to an analysis by Andrew Beveridge, a sociology professor at Queens College, Chinatown and heavily Chinese tracts on the Lower East Side had 47,844 residents in the 2010 census, a decrease of nearly 9 percent since 2000.
Howard Shih, census programs director of the Asian American Federation, contends that the traditional Chinatown core now has fewer people than younger Chinese enclaves like Flushing, Queens, and Sunset Park, Brooklyn. Chinatown is also losing some of its Chinese residents as 19th-century tenements are gentrified by younger white residents taking advantage of low rents on irrepressibly charming blocks, even if the bathrooms are in the common hallways.
Yet there are optimists in a neighborhood where more than a few residents believe fortune can turn on a dime. Many business people are eagerly anticipating the opening of two buildings at ground zero, 1 and 4 World Trade Center; the influx of tourists drawn by the new memorial plaza there; and even a surge of tourists from a newly muscular China.
Mr. Chen, of the Chinatown Partnership Local Development Corporation, thinks a business improvement district could reverse the economic slump by promoting the jewelry district along Canal Street and the Bowery, which by one estimate embraces 300 shops and booths. He would also like to take advantage of Chinatown's location near the Marriage Bureau so couples could patronize florists and restaurants there for their celebrations.
To heighten the ambience of romance, he would like to erect a ''kissing bridge'' on Canal Street. The neighborhood had one in the 18th century, but that was long before it became Chinatown.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A City Council committee is scheduled to vote Wednesday on a proposal to create a Chinatown Business Improvement District. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS: Merchants disagree about whether the district is worth the cost. (A25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); JEWELRY STORES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); RETAILERS (77%); FINE JEWELRY (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%); APPAREL MFG (53%); CITIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



891 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: A Day of Gains Fades in the Final Hours

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER; Matthew Saltmarsh, Niki Kitsantonis and Elisabetta Povoledo contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Stocks rose for most of the Wall Street trading session on Tuesday before faltering in the final hour as investors weighed the prospects for progress on debt problems in Greece and possible new action by the Federal Reserve to stimulate the economy, analysts said. 
The early gains, mirroring those in European markets, suggested that investors had shrugged off the downgrade of Italy's debt by the credit ratings agency Standard & Poor's. The S.& P. downgrade late Monday took aim at the euro zone's most indebted member after Greece.
On Wall Street, the major indexes were about 1 percent higher for most of the day, but closed mixed. The Dow Jones industrial average was up 7.65 points, or 0.1 percent, at 11,408.66, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 2 points, or 0.2 percent, at 1,202.09. The Nasdaq composite index was down 22.59 points, or 0.9 percent, at 2,590.24. The Euro Stoxx 50 index was up 2.1 percent and the FTSE 100 in London rose 2 percent.
Analysts said investors could have reacted to discussions about aiding Greece, where talks with foreign creditors -- the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission and the European Central Bank -- described as productive on Monday continued on Tuesday. That buoyed some of the sentiment during the day, although uncertainty over the meeting seemed to take hold in the last hour of trading in the United States, said Stephen J. Carl, head equity trader at the Williams Capital Group.
After the market closed, the Greek Finance Ministry said the talks yielded ''satisfactory progress.''
In addition, many investors have concluded that the Federal Reserve will announce new steps to promote economic growth after a two-day meeting of its policy-making group ends on Wednesday.
''The thought is that Operation Twist is going to be announced tomorrow,'' said Michael A. Mullaney, a vice president for the Fiduciary Trust Company, using an insider phrase to describe when the Fed sells shorter-term securities for longer-term ones. ''Quite frankly, most likely it is going to be 'buy the rumor, sell the news.' ''
Such a move by the Fed would reflect an effort to reduce long-term interest rates, which would allow businesses and consumers to borrow more cheaply. The United States Treasury's 10-year note rose 5/32, to 101 22/32. The yield fell to 1.94 percent, from 1.96 percent late Monday. In explaining its move on Italy, S.& P. cited weakening prospects for economic growth and higher-than-expected levels of government debt as reasons for lowering its debt rating by one notch to A from A+.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (91%); EURO (90%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); DEBT NOTES (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); EURO ZONE (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); MONETARY UNIONS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (67%); WILLIAMS CAPITAL GROUP LP (54%); FIDUCIARY TRUST CO OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (52%); FIDUCIARY TRUST CO INTERNATIONAL (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) EUROPE (94%); ITALY (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GREECE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



892 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: Tenants Fret Over Big Debt at a Top Address

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
In 1994, a little-known real estate investor, Gary Barnett, bought the Belnord, a 1909 landmarked 12-story apartment building on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, bringing an end to one of the city's longest and most acrimonious tenant-landlord battles. He paid around $15 million and agreed to settle a slew of pending lawsuits.
Mr. Barnett is now one of New York's busiest developers, as the president of the Extell Development Company. He has spent tens of millions of dollars restoring and upgrading the long-neglected Belnord, which occupies the entire block from 86th Street to 87th Street between Amsterdam Avenue and Broadway and has 215 apartments. But like many other landlords of New York residential buildings that are subject to the city's strict rent regulations, Mr. Barnett put more debt on the Italian Renaissance-style Belnord than its rental income could support. He stopped paying his sizable debt service on the Belnord in May and could wind up walking away from it, a prospect that alarms longtime tenants. 
Julia Vitullo-Martin, a writer who has lived at the Belnord since 1975, said Mr. Barnett, who was previously in the diamond business in Antwerp, Belgium, was able to appreciate the building's European flavor and enhance it, using skilled artisans. ''He's been a great landlord,'' said Ms. Vitullo-Martin, whose husband, Tom, is the longtime president of the tenants association. ''He's a very hands-on guy with his apartments.''
But in October 2006, at the peak of the market, Mr. Barnett consolidated his existing debt of $182.6 million into a $375 million interest-only loan, which was sold to investors by UBS as part of a commercial mortgage-backed security. The building was appraised at $774 million, or $3.6 million a unit. Mr. Barnett's yearly debt service was $21.8 million, according to Spencer Hollerith, an analyst at Trepp, a New York research firm. Yet last year, the building had revenue of $23.6 million, and expenses of $11 million. The reserve fund has dwindled to $12.2 million from $49 million.
The loan was transferred to a special servicer on June 24, leaving the building's future ownership up in the air. Mr. Barnett said the building's prospects changed completely after an October 2009 state Court of Appeals ruling that barred landlords from raising rents beyond certain established levels if they had participated in a tax abatement program known as J-51. The program is intended to encourage renovation of affordable housing.
Mr. Barnett, who is continuing to maintain the building, calls the J-51 ruling ''absolutely outrageous'' and said he would have turned down the tax relief if he had foreseen the consequences.
But real estate specialists say the Belnord loan was based on unrealistic expectations about how quickly rent-regulated apartments would become vacant.
''His property was in trouble long before that court ruling had really come to fruition,'' said Frank Innaurato, a managing director at Morningstar who specializes in mortgage-backed securities. ''We've been monitoring it on our watch list, due to problems with cash flows and how quickly they would be able to convert the units to market rate.'' According to Real Capital Analytics, a New York research firm, the Belnord is one of 11 sizable Manhattan apartment buildings or complexes whose loans have defaulted in the last several years.
The Belnord loan was the largest in a bundle of mortgages that included a portfolio of shopping centers in the Midwest as well as office and industrial buildings. In reviewing the mortgage-backed security when it was issued, Fitch Ratings warned that turnover of the apartments could be slow but said Mr. Barnett had been able to convert seven units a year to market rate. But from 2006 through 2008, the number of such apartments increased by only three, to 77 from 74, Morningstar reported. Mr. Barnett declined to say how many have been added since.
In 2006, when the building was refinanced, the average annual rent was $6.41 a square foot for the rent-controlled units, $14.16 a square foot for the rent-stabilized units and $61.91 a square foot for the market-rate units. An average size rent-controlled three-bedroom Belnord apartment, for example, rented for about $1,175 a month.
From the outset, the Belnord was intended as housing for the rich. It was to be ''the largest and the highest grade apartment house in this city, if not in the world,'' The New York Times reported on July 19, 1908. Nearly all of the bedrooms in the building faced a half-acre central courtyard containing a private park.
A 1910 advertisement promised ''electric light, artificial refrigeration and vacuum cleaning of the apartments once each month supplied without charge from the Belnord's own plant.'' The building, whose residents over the years have included Isaac Bashevis Singer, Walter Matthau, Zero Mostel and Matt Damon, was landmarked in 1966.
From the late 1970s until the mid-1990s, Belnord tenants fought bitterly with the owners at the time, Lillian and Nathan Seril, as conditions in the building deteriorated. In 1976, the Serils were expelled from the Rent Stabilization Board for failure to pay dues. As a penalty, the rent-stabilized units reverted to rent control, a more stringent standard that cut rents by as much as 50 percent.
Since he bought the building, Mr. Barnett, who recently announced plans to build a 54-story Hyatt hotel on 45th Street in Midtown and is building on 57th Street what would be the city's tallest residential building at 1,005 feet, has created vacancies at the Belnord by buying out some tenants and encouraging others to move to smaller, renovated units.
In 2006, according to Morningstar, he struck a deal with 68 older tenants, some of whose apartments had been in their families for generations; they agreed to give up these succession rights in exchange for protection from deregulation. A vacant apartment can be deregulated if the monthly rent reaches $2,500; an occupied apartment is deregulated if the monthly rent is $2,500 and the household income has exceeded $200,000 in the two previous years. In buildings with more than 35 units, the owner can increase the rent by 20 percent and one-sixtieth of the cost of improvements.
Mr. Barnett has invested lavish sums to attract families willing to spend heavily on rent. In Apartment 1015, which has been rented for the second time since it was deregulated, for example, he reconfigured the space, enlarging the bathrooms and kitchen and expanding the closets. He recreated the original crown molding, installed central air-conditioning and added high-end finishes.
The current monthly rent is $20,000 for a space of 3,600 square feet, but it is unclear whether that will stick under the J-51 ruling. Mr. Barnett said he was negotiating with the special servicer, LNR Partners, to try to restructure the debt. Though he acknowledged that the refinancing was profitable to his company -- he would not say by how much -- he said he did not want to give up on the Belnord, as Tishman Speyer did with the huge Stuyvesant Town complex in 2010 after it defaulted on its loans.
''We stand ready, willing and able to continue to run the building and invest in it,'' he said. ''But it has to make economic sense.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Belnord, built in 1909 on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, includes 215 apartments. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); RENT CONTROL (78%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (74%); WRITERS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (73%); LITIGATION (71%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (60%); TAX INCENTIVES (60%); TAX RELIEF (60%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); APPEALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



893 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: PepsiCo To Foster Chick Peas In Ethiopia

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
PepsiCo will announce a new venture on Wednesday aimed at increasing its access to chick peas, which play an increasing role in its food products, and expanding production of the crop in Ethiopia. 
The company's partners, the World Food Program and the United States Agency for International Development, or Usaid, say the project has the potential to reduce famine in Africa over the long term. ''If it works as we believe it will, it will go a long, long way towards improving nutrition and hunger there,'' said Nancy E. Roman, director of public policy and private partnerships at the World Food Program.
PepsiCo plans to work with farmers in Ethiopia to increase the production and quality of chick peas, which the company needs to meet demand for its hummus products. Currently, some 100,000 farmers there grow chick peas, but not as a primary crop.
The company wants to invest in better seeds and drip irrigation systems so that farmers can improve yields and grow chick peas twice a year. The increased yield would exceed PepsiCo's needs. So some of the additional crops will be used to make a new, ready-to-eat food product that the World Food Program has used to address famine in Pakistan.
Local businesses will produce and sell that product and perhaps others based on chick peas. The primary goal is to turn chick peas into a major export crop for the country as demand for them is increasing globally. ''This will boost the production of chick peas in Ethiopia, but it will also help local manufacturers produce and develop products using chick peas and supply a steady stream for export,'' said Derek Yach, a spokesman for PepsiCo. ''The idea is to build value into the chain all the way up to the macroeconomic level.''
Because chick peas get much of the nitrogen they need from the air rather than from the soil, cultivating the crop improves conditions for the country's other crops. Like PepsiCo, the World Food Program has been looking for a steady supply of chick peas to increase production of a food called Wawa Mum, which means ''Good food, Mom,'' in Pashto, a language spoken in northwest Pakistan. The organization developed the product in India to address food shortages after a flood in 2008 and began working with local companies in Pakistan to produce it for that country in 2009.
Expanding production to other malnourished regions, however, has proved challenging because of limited amounts of chick peas. When Ms. Roman encountered Mr. Yach at the World Economic Forum in Dubai and heard about PepsiCo's plans to spur the production of chick peas for the company's use, they began talking about going beyond that to address malnutrition and famine in a way that also would contribute to economic development.
The program will not, however, have an immediate role in the famine currently devastating the Horn of Africa. ''The tough reality is that crops grow as fast as they grow,'' Mr. Yach said. ''Some 12 million people will remain in need for years after this famine ends, though, and we might have some impact on them.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); FAMINE (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MALNUTRITION (89%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); NUT & LEGUME EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); CONVENIENCE FOODS (73%); NUTRITION (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%)

COMPANY: PEPSICO INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (84%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (84%)

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (90%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (74%) ETHIOPIA (94%); PAKISTAN (92%); AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



894 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: Home Building Sags Again

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Builders broke ground on fewer homes in the United States in August, the government said on Tuesday.
Work began on a seasonally adjusted 571,000 homes last month, a 5 percent decline from July, according to the Commerce Department. That is less than half of the 1.2 million that economists say is consistent with healthy housing markets. 
Single-family homes, which represent roughly two-thirds of home construction, fell 1.4 percent. Apartment building plunged 12.4 percent. Building permits, a gauge of future construction, rose 3.2 percent. One cause of the downturn was Hurricane Irene, which slowed construction in the Northeast.
Over all, home building fell to its lowest levels in 50 years in 2009, when builders began work on just 554,000 homes. Last year was not much better.
While home construction represents a small portion of the housing market, it has an outsize impact on the economy. Each home built creates an average of three jobs for a year and about $90,000 in taxes, according to the National Association of Home Builders.
After prior recessions, housing accounted for at least 15 percent of economic growth in the United States. Since the recession officially ended in June 2009, it has accounted for 4 percent.
Builders are struggling to compete with deeply discounted foreclosures and short sales, when lenders allow borrowers to sell homes for less than is owed on their mortgages. And few homes are selling.
New-home sales fell in July to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 298,000. This year is shaping up to be the worst for sales in a half-century.
Renting has become necessary for many Americans who lost their jobs during the recession and were forced to leave their homes. Still, the surge in apartments has not been enough to offset the loss of single-family home building.
Another reason sales have fallen is that previously occupied homes are a better deal than new homes. The median price of a new home is nearly 28 percent higher than the median price for a resale.
The trade group said Monday that its survey of industry sentiment fell slightly to 14 in September. The index has been below 20 for all but one month in the last two years. Any reading below 50 indicates negative sentiment about the housing market. The index has not reached 50 since April 2006.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RECESSION (90%); NEW HOME SALES (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (79%); FORECLOSURE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); BUILDING PERMITS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); HURRICANES (70%); DISMISSALS (67%); LAYOFFS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



895 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: To Address a Reshaped Market, Grey Adds a Unit

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
EXECUTIVES at one of the world's largest agencies are making a business choice that they hope will turn out to be a healthy choice.
The Grey unit of the Grey Group, which is owned by WPP, is forming a global division that will specialize in advertising for health-related products and services -- not only prescription drugs and over-the-counter medications, but also anything intended to promote the health and well-being of consumers.
The name of the new division, which is to be formally announced on Wednesday, reflects the intent: Grey Healthy People. (Although if people are healthy, wouldn't they be in the pink rather than looking grey, or gray?) 
The foundation of the new division will be accounts with billings estimated at $500 million that are already handled by Grey, for health care marketers like Allergan, Bausch & Lomb, Boehringer Ingelheim, GlaxoSmithKline, Eli Lilly and Pfizer. There are more than 30 brands involved, including well-known names like Aquafresh, Botox, Cialis, Flomax, Juvederm, Preparation H, Robitussin and Tums.
The clients also include the personal-care division of Energizer Holdings, which sells products like Playtex tampons and Wet Ones antibacterial wipes, and the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center.
In addition, Grey Healthy People is getting its first new assignment, to help introduce the coming Botox treatment for chronic migraines.
Grey Healthy People will open with 300 employees in five offices, in New York, Moscow, Istanbul, Dubai, in United Arab Emirates, and Dusseldorf, in Germany. Plans call for the division to be introduced into the 20 largest Grey markets by the end of June 2012. (Grey has offices in 154 cities in 96 countries; among clients not involved in the initiative are Ally Bank, Diageo, DirecTV, E*Trade and Procter & Gamble.)
Because Grey Healthy People is intended to have a broader scope beyond just medicine -- it might handle fitness clubs, for example -- it will be led by executives who have experience with marketers in a wide variety of categories that include health care, rather than just specialists in health care.
The formation of Grey Healthy People is indicative of efforts by traditional agencies to reinvent themselves to take advantage of -- and keep up with -- the major shifts in the marketing landscape. The billions of dollars spent annually on health care advertising make it a core part of those efforts.
Other examples include a deal by MDC Partners to acquire a majority stake in Concentric Pharma Advertising, an agency that specializes in health care accounts, and the start-up by the New York offices of two Omnicom Group agencies, DDB Worldwide and Tribal DDB, of a unit, DDB Remedy, devoted to marketing to health care professionals.
Among the ''dominant categories on the client side in our business,'' said James R. Heekin, chairman and chief executive of the Grey Group, there is ''dramatic growth in health care.''
''The way we're defining 'health care' goes way beyond pills,'' he added, to ''offer clients our collective expertise, knowledge from all the categories we work in.''
The new division will handle ''any lifestyle product'' meant to offer health and wellness benefits, Mr. Heekin said, which could include weight-loss aids, foods and cosmetics.
This is not the first time Grey has been reorganized along specialty lines. The Grey New York office was revamped in 2001 into mostly autonomous units based on the kinds of clients they handled. Among the eight or nine ''villages,'' as the units were known, was Healthy Grey. The villages were dissolved by Mr. Heekin in 2006.
''This is not a return to the villages,'' Mr. Heekin said, adding that he eliminated them because ''they became little silos with no sharing of resources; there was no feeling they belonged to a larger agency.''
To help prevent that from recurring, Mr. Heekin said, ''we're taking two generalist leaders'' to head Grey Healthy People, ''who have run businesses from Hasbro toys to our global GlaxoSmithKline business, who have led work on Procter, E*Trade, Diageo.''
Those leaders are Maureen Maldari, who is president of the division and its New York operation, and Rob Baiocco, who is executive creative director of the division and its New York operation. Ms. Maldari, who is 47, has been at Grey for 16 years, most recently as chief account management officer. Mr. Baiocco, also 47, has been at Grey 18 years, most recently as an executive creative director of Grey New York.
''I ran a village,'' Ms. Maldari recalled. ''It was kind of an odd concept.'' By contrast, she said, with Grey Healthy People ''we've organized ourselves in a way that allows us to grow our business in a fresh way; a new time requires a fresh approach.''
Mr. Baiocco said his ''No. 1 goal is to inject a new level of creativity into the category'' of health care advertising.
Asked if he was punning by using the word ''inject,'' he laughed and replied: ''You should see us in a Prep H meeting. The puns fly in that one.''
Ads in the health and wellness category ought to be ''more provocative, more sexy, less formulaic,'' Mr. Baiocco said.
''I'm thinking of things we do for E*Trade, brought into the health care space with appropriateness,'' he added.
Mr. Baiocco said he was not proposing ''silly advertising for heart medicine,'' but rather that ''we should talk about health not just in terms of 'Something is wrong with you; take this.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rob Baiocco and Maureen Maldari are leading Grey Healthy People, which is starting Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREG KESSLER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); HEALTH CARE (88%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (73%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (71%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (71%)

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); PFIZER INC (58%); ELI LILLY & CO (57%); ALLERGAN INC (57%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (57%); BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM GMBH (56%); ENERGIZER HOLDINGS INC (55%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (53%); DIAGEO PLC (53%); ALLY FINANCIAL INC (53%); MDC PARTNERS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (55%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (84%); PFZ (LSE) (58%); PFEB (BRU) (58%); PFE (NYSE) (58%); LLY (SWX) (57%); LLY (NYSE) (57%); LEL (LSE) (57%); AGN (NYSE) (57%); GSK (NYSE) (57%); GSK (LSE) (57%); BIOC (EGX) (57%); ENR (NYSE) (55%); PGP (PAR) (53%); PG (NYSE) (53%); DGE (PAR) (53%); DGE (LSE) (53%); DEO (NYSE) (53%); MDZ.A (TSX) (51%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (58%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS333314 OPTICAL INSTRUMENT & LENS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (56%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335912 PRIMARY BATTERY MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335911 STORAGE BATTERY MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3692 PRIMARY BATTERIES, DRY & WET (55%); SIC3691 STORAGE BATTERIES (55%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (53%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (53%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (53%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (53%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (53%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (53%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (53%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (53%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (74%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (74%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



896 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Slashes Growth Outlook for U.S. and Europe

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The International Monetary Fund sharply downgraded its outlook for the United States economy through 2012 because of weak growth and concern that Europe will not be able to solve its debt crisis, the organization said Tuesday in its economic outlook. 
The fund said it expected the American economy to grow just 1.5 percent this year and 1.8 percent in 2012. Its June forecast was 2.5 percent in 2011 and 2.7 percent next year.
The organization also lowered its outlook for the 17 European Union countries that use the euro. It predicted 1.6 percent growth this year and 1.1 percent next year, down from its June projections of 2 percent and 1.7 percent, respectively.
The gloomier forecast for Europe was based on worries that Greece would default on its debt and destabilize the region.
''Fear of the unknown is high,'' said Olivier Blanchard, the organization's chief economist. ''Strong policies are urgently needed to improve the outlook and reduce the risks.''
Over all, the International Monetary Fund predicted global growth of 4 percent for both years. Stronger growth in China, India, Brazil and other developing countries should offset weaker output in the United States and Europe, it said.
American and European policy makers need to act more decisively to cut budget deficits, the report said, and European officials need to ensure that the region's banks have enough capital to withstand the debt crisis.
The United States economy grew at an annual rate of just 0.7 percent in the first six months of the year. The unemployment rate has stayed above 9 percent for all but two months since the recession officially ended two years ago.
Financial turmoil and slow growth are feeding on each other in both the United States and Europe, fund officials say. Europe's debt crisis is causing banks to reduce lending and hold onto cash. Sharp stock market drops in the United States over the summer hurt consumer and business confidence and will probably reduce spending. That slows growth, which leads many investors to shift money out of stocks and into safer investments, like Treasury bonds. In Europe, slower growth will make it harder for troubled nations to get their debt under control.
President Obama's proposal to cut taxes and spend more on infrastructure could provide much-needed short-term stimulus, the report said. But that initiative needs to be paired with a longer-term plan to reduce the deficit, the report said. The timing of the budget cuts is crucial, Mr. Blanchard said.
Budget cuts ''cannot be too fast or it will kill growth,'' he said in a statement. ''It cannot be too slow or it will kill credibility.''
The 187-nation International Monetary Fund conducts economic analysis and lends money to countries in financial distress. It will hold its annual meetings with the World Bank later this week in Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); RECESSION (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (73%); BONDS (72%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); TAX LAW (60%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); GREECE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



897 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: New U.S. Envoy Urges China to Relax Business Restrictions

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

 BODY:
BEIJING -- The new United States ambassador to China, Gary F. Locke, warned China on Tuesday that its undervalued currency, its increasingly restrictive business environment and the rampant theft of intellectual property threatened both the country's long-term economic prospects and American job growth at a time of continued weakness in the global economy. 
In his first speech on economic matters since arriving in Beijing last month, Mr. Locke, a former commerce secretary and an expert on trade relations, told a gathering of American business leaders that the Chinese government's refusal to open up important sectors of its economy to foreign investment was an increasing concern in the United States, where some members of Congress have been calling for a harder line against China.
''China's current business climate is causing growing frustration among business and government leaders, including my colleagues back home,'' Mr. Locke said in a speech to the American Chamber of Commerce in China. He said a raft of obstacles to foreign corporations -- including those focused on mining, health care, energy and financial services -- ''was planting seeds of doubt in the minds of foreign investors as to whether they are truly welcome in China.''
In his speech, Mr. Locke reiterated many of the themes he advocated as President Obama's commerce secretary, but he also waded into the politically delicate realm of Internet freedom, calling on the ruling Communist Party to relax online censorship. Such restrictions, he suggested, hamper China's ability to compete in the global economy by hindering the free flow of information and stifling innovation.
''If China's businesses, entrepreneurs, academics, scientists, researchers and students and even ordinary citizens aren't able to fully participate in the international marketplace of ideas, then China as a country and as an economy will fail to realize its full potential,'' Mr. Locke said.
Despite China's robust economic growth, many American businesses say they are increasingly stymied by government regulations that favor Chinese corporations, especially the state-owned enterprises that dominate banking, energy, telecommunications and other sectors. Another irritant involves longstanding rules that force many overseas companies into ventures with Chinese partners.
As part of its efforts to spur domestic job growth, Mr. Locke said the Obama administration was pressing for initiatives to reduce limitations on the export of American technology to China, while helping foreign investors navigate the sometimes daunting tangle of American government regulation. Such measures, he said, would invariably benefit Chinese corporations, which have enjoyed a 400 percent increase in direct investment in the United States since 2008.
In his closing remarks, Mr. Locke said China would do well to return the favor. ''The United States is doing everything it can to make our investment and commercial climate as open and appealing as possible,'' he said. ''Unlocking the full potential of the U.S.-China relationship requires China to take similar steps.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); CENSORSHIP (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); PROPERTY CRIMES (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); POLITICS (70%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (67%); EXPORT CONTROLS (61%)

PERSON: GARY LOCKE (90%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



898 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Obama Praises Libya's Post-Revolution Leaders at the United Nations

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and NEIL MacFARQUHAR; Rick Gladstone contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
UNITED NATIONS -- President Obama on Tuesday extended to Libya's transitional leader a diplomatic honor never offered his predecessor, meeting formally with Mustafa Abdel-Jalil at the United Nations and heralding the victory of Libyan rebels who brought an end to the 42-year reign of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi.
It was not quite a victory lap, but it came pretty close. Mr. Obama credited his new doctrine with helping to topple the man whom Ronald Reagan once famously called the ''mad dog of the Middle East.'' And he held Libya up as ''a lesson in what the international community can achieve when we stand together as one.'' 
While he cautioned that ''we cannot and should not intervene every time there's an injustice in the world,'' Mr. Obama said that the international community's action in Libya meant that after four decades, Libyan people ''can walk the streets, free from a tyrant.''
Mr. Obama announced that the United States was officially reopening its embassy in Tripoli, which was closed in the early days of the conflict. The American ambassador there will be returning, he said. An advance military team has been in the Libyan capital for the past week to prepare for the reopening.
For Mr. Obama, Libya represents a much-needed foreign policy victory in the middle of trying times at home. He initially committed to the American military involvement in Libya only grudgingly, after being pressed by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and other members of his administration, and sought to sketch out a limited American role. But even so, the toppling of Colonel Qaddafi allows Mr. Obama to point to Libya as an example of how the United States can balance assistance to the democratic movements across the region against domestic opposition to foreign interventions, particularly during tight economic times.
The trouble for Mr. Obama, though, is that even as he was publicly proclaiming his backing at the United Nations for a new Libyan state, American officials were working furiously behind the scenes to make sure the United Nations did not bestow a similar recognition on a Palestinian state. The Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, has vowed to pursue statehood before the Security Council this week; American officials say the United States will veto that request, should it gain the broader Council's approval. Mr. Obama will meet with Mr. Abbas on Wednesday, a senior administration official said.
Mr. Obama is scheduled to speak before the General Assembly on Wednesday morning, where he will have to address the Palestinian issue. It is a high-wire act for him, and officials privately acknowledge that the president risks appearing hypocritical.
''Today the world is saying, in one unmistakable voice, 'We will stand with you as you seize this moment of promise; as you reach for the freedom, the dignity and the opportunity you deserve,' '' he said Tuesday. But he was talking about Libyans, not Palestinians.
American officials say that Palestinian statehood at the United Nations will jeopardize the peace process; Israel is adamantly opposed to United Nations recognition of a Palestinian state.
Mr. Obama also met on Tuesday with the Turkish prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and the two were expected to discuss the Palestinian issue, as well as Turkey's increasingly frayed relations with Israel, made worse by maneuverings over the Gaza blockade, which Turkey opposes.
The overcrowded meeting at the United Nations on Libya evolved into a two-hour outpouring of support from world leaders, including from countries like China and South Africa who were among the last to abandon the Qaddafi government. President Jacob Zuma of South Africa made the only veiled criticism by saying that the revenge attacks against sub-Saharan Africans should be stopped.
Mr. Abdel-Jalil, the head of the provisional Libyan government, the Transitional National Council, called it a ''happy moment'' that all Libyans had anticipated.
''This historical moment of raising the Libyan flag at the United Nations represents the will of the Libyan freedom fighters and the first martyrs, who, as they were dying, urged their friends and colleagues to continue and not to surrender,'' he said.
In contrast to the Qaddafi years, he said Libya would become a responsible member of the international community that respected the tenets of the United Nations charter. His talks with Mr. Obama and other leaders centered on regional peace and security, reconciliation and democratic transformation, he said.
Asked about Colonel Qaddafi's renewed call to arms, in an audio recording released on Tuesday, he said there was nothing the former leader could do to threaten what the country's ''revolutionaries'' have achieved.
''I have some worries about sabotage operations which the Qaddafi brigades might conduct,'' he said. Mr. Abdel-Jalil, a former justice minister in the Qaddafi government, said his country needed more support from the United Nations, especially in carrying out a reconciliation plan and in organizing elections.
The Security Council last Friday authorized a short-term United Nations mission for Libya designed to address those two issues, among others.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A poster in Ramallah, West Bank, underscored a push at this session of the United Nations for recognition of a Palestinian state. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOHAMAD TOROKMAN/REUTERS)
 Mustafa Abdel-Jalil, leader of Libya's interim government, met with President Obama on Tuesday at the United Nations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); VETO (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); APPROVALS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



899 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: Oracle Posts Solid Gains In a Sector In Turmoil

BYLINE: By VERNE G. KOPYTOFF

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- Strong corporate demand for software helped to lift Oracle's sales 12 percent in its first quarter despite a choppy economy and sagging demand for its hardware.
The financial results announced Tuesday highlighted Oracle's overall health while a number of other big technology companies are slumping.
But they also add to concerns about Oracle's push into hardware through its $7.4 billion acquisition of Sun Microsystems last year. Hardware sales fell 5 percent to $1 billion, the second consecutive quarterly decline. 
Oracle executives emphatically defended the Sun acquisition Tuesday and described the decline as part of an effort to pare unprofitable sales. Lifting profit margins is far more important than increasing sales, they said.
Lawrence J. Ellison, Oracle's chief executive, mentioned one kind of server, in particular, that he described as unprofitable, before telling analysts on a conference call that he did not care if its sales ''went to zero.''
Oracle's net income in the quarter, which ended Aug. 31, the first of its fiscal year, rose 36 percent, to $1.8 billion, or 36 cents a share, compared with $1.4 billion, or 27 cents, in the same quarter a year ago. Revenue climbed to $8.4 billion, from $7.5 billion.
The adjusted income of 48 cents a share and the revenue were slightly above the expectations of Wall Street analysts. They had expected 47 cents a share and revenue of $8.36 billion, according to a survey of analysts by Thomson Reuters.
Oracle, based in Redwood City, Calif., has weathered the economic turbulence of the last few years far better than a number of other big technology companies that primarily sell to other corporations. While Cisco Systems and Hewlett-Packard retool, for instance, Oracle has been able to expand sales.
Recent upheaval in Europe, however, has raised doubts about Oracle on Wall Street. Nearly 30 percent of its revenue is from Europe, which is reeling from fears of Greece defaulting on its international debt as well as from worries about bank failures.
Addressing analysts' questions, Safra A. Catz, a co-president at Oracle, said that sales remained robust in Europe, including among customers considered the most vulnerable in a downturn like financial services firms and the public sector. In a thinly veiled dig at rivals, she said that ''Oracle has a lot of company-specific momentum.''
She added, ''We were strong in all the sectors that you may be reading about struggling, both in Europe and the United States.''
Given the tough economy, Oracle's report was encouraging, said Brendan Barnicle, an analyst with Pacific Crest Securities. New software license revenue in the region that includes Europe, he pointed out, grew a respectable 15 percent, more than any of the previous four quarters and more than the Americas or Asia. ''Every area people were worried about, they contradicted the trends,'' Mr. Barnicle said.
Oracle's primary business of selling and maintaining corporate database software showed strength. New software license revenue, a critical measure of the company's business because it brings recurring revenue, grew 17 percent, to $1.5 billion.
In hardware, Oracle is pushing a strategy to servers loaded with database software. The servers, called Exadata, compete against H.P. and I.B.M. The company has said that it has more than 1,000 customers for Exadata. In the quarter, it said that it added at least 100 more.
In its financial forecast, Oracle said it expected adjusted revenue in the second quarter to rise 4 percent to 8 percent compared with the same quarter a year earlier, or slightly lower than what analysts had forecast. Shares of Oracle rose 3.4 percent in after-hours trading Tuesday to $29.04. In regular trading, they declined 2.3 percent to $28.35.
Online Correction: September 20, 2011, Tuesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misstated the day of Oracle's earnings report. It was Tuesday, not Monday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lawrence J. Ellison 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (53%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (92%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (57%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (92%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); HPQ (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (57%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE J ELLISON (73%); SAFRA A CATZ (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); GREECE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



900 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: G.M. To Develop Electric Cars With Chinese Partner

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- General Motors said Tuesday that it would develop electric cars in China through a joint venture with a Chinese automaker, and would transfer battery and other electric car technology to the venture.
G.M., which is already the largest foreign maker of conventional vehicles in China, is keen to help define the emerging generation of green-energy automobiles here. And the state-controlled Chinese auto industry is just as eager for expertise from G.M., an acknowledged global leader in car manufacturing.
Tuesday's announcement was being made as the Chinese government was putting heavy pressure on foreign automakers to transfer electric car technology to joint ventures in China. But G.M. took pains to say that its joint-venture agreement was not connected to its plans to begin importing its new American-made Chevrolet Volt plug-in electric hybrid to China this year. 
''They are not linked,'' Stephen J. Girsky, G.M.'s vice chairman, said in a telephone interview after G.M.'s first board meeting in China, held in Shanghai on Tuesday.
Mr. Girsky said that the Chinese government had not requested the transfer to China of specific technologies from the Volt, and that G.M. understood that the Volt would not be eligible for the generous consumer subsidies China offered buyers of clean-energy cars.
Instead, he said, G.M.'s decision to develop electric cars in China would be part of the company's effort to improve the technical capabilities of its joint ventures in China, as the country's car buyers become more demanding. G.M. holds minority stakes in manufacturing joint ventures in China that sell more cars each year than G.M. sells in the United States.
''This is not a political decision today,'' Mr. Girsky said. ''It's a business decision.''
The new electric car development effort will be through a 50-50 joint venture that G.M. already has with China's biggest auto company, the Shanghai Automotive Industry Corporation.
The joint venture is the Pan Asia Technical Automotive Center, which is in Shanghai and has already helped develop the Buick LaCrosse eAssist now on sale in the United States and China. The LaCrosse is a so-called mild hybrid, in which electric motors help increase the fuel economy of a vehicle that still relies mainly on a gasoline engine.
G.M. has been a pioneer in electric car technology, as many other automakers have been more interested in hybrids. The company gained expertise that practically no automaker in Europe or Japan can match, much less in China, by pouring large sums of money into the development of the EV1 electric car in the early 1990s, and it has continued to invest since.
G.M.'s EV1, a predecessor to the Volt, was a technological advancement when introduced in 1996 but failed to catch on as a mass-market product. G.M. restricted the car to leasing, rather than sales, partly to discourage foreign automakers from buying it and shipping it home to disassemble and copy.
But critics have long contended that G.M. did not commit the marketing and financing muscle, or the large-scale manufacturing, that might have been necessary to make the EV1 a commercial success.
The new Chevrolet Volt, made in Hamtramck, Mich., is G.M.'s biggest bet on a commercial plug-in hybrid car. (It also has a gasoline engine that powers the electric motor for extended range between charging.) And the fact that the Beijing government has erected high hurdles to the Volt's catching on in China irritates G.M.
''We'll bring it up in every conversation we have'' with the Chinese authorities, Raymond Bierzynski, the executive director of electrification strategy at G.M. China, said in a recent interview.
Electric cars and other ''new energy vehicles,'' as the Chinese government calls them, are eligible for generous national and municipal subsidies in China totaling up to $19,300 a car. But for foreign makers' cars, that money is not available unless the maker has transferred important parts of the technology to a joint venture in China. Chinese automakers are not supposed to use technology from joint ventures for their own cars without permission.
The lack of subsidies will place the Volt, which retails for $41,000 in the United States, at a distinct disadvantage if G.M. sticks with plans to start importing it from the United States for sale in China by the end of this year.
World Trade Organization rules effectively prohibit local content requirements for eligibility for subsidies. The organization also discourages mandatory technology transfer as an eligibility requirement, although those rules are not as clear-cut, trade specialists said.
Mr. Girsky said that G.M. intended to sell only small numbers of the Volt in China and many other markets to test consumer interest. ''We knew going in it would not qualify'' for the subsidies, and Tuesday's announcement does not represent an attempt by G.M. to change that, he said.
Michael Dunne, a longtime auto consultant in Asia, said that conducting joint electric car development in China could allow G.M. to retain more control over its technology than manufacturing the Volt here would.
''I don't think they're going to put the crown jewels into China, and that's why they'll keep the Volt an import,'' he said.
As part of the agreement to expand Pan Asia into an electric car development center, Mr. Girsky said that G.M. would transfer battery technology and technology for inverters -- devices that control the transfer of electricity between batteries and the motor.
Shanghai Automotive will also contribute technology to Pan Asia, and has made cash contributions to the joint venture in recognition of G.M.'s technology contributions over the years, Mr. Girsky said.
Nissan, in China, has taken an approach similar to G.M.'s. Nissan is jointly developing an electric car with its Chinese partner, Dongfeng Motor. But it has decided not to build its new electric Nissan Leaf in China.
Similarly, Toyota has announced that it will build and sell in China the current generation of the Prius gasoline-electric hybrid. That car is not eligible for most Chinese government subsidies, anyway, because it is not a plug-in vehicle.
But Toyota has said that it has no plans to build or sell the plug-in version of the new Prius in China. It would be eligible for Chinese subsidies -- but only if Toyota transferred core technologies.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hu Maoyuan of S.A.I.C. Motor and Daniel Akerson of G.M. announced a joint venture Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY QILAI SHEN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (94%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (94%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (92%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); JOINT VENTURES (91%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (63%); SHANGHAI AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY CORP (63%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (63%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: DANIEL F AKERSON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (93%) EAST CHINA (93%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



901 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: In Cuts to Health Programs, Experts See Difficult Task in Protecting Patients

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama and some members of Congress assert that, in cutting Medicare and Medicaid, they can whack health care providers while protecting beneficiaries. But experts say it is not so simple.
Experience, they say, shows that some cuts in payments to providers hurt beneficiaries, as more doctors refuse to take Medicaid patients or limit the number of new Medicare patients they will accept. Hospitals curtail services. Beneficiaries may have more difficulty getting therapy services after a stroke, traumatic brain injury or hip fracture.
By contrast, the experts say, other cuts force health care providers to become more efficient, saving money for beneficiaries, taxpayers and the government. 
Marilyn Moon, a health economist and former trustee of the Medicare program, said that ''you have to be vigilant'' in cutting Medicare payments to health care providers because ''there is no bright line'' between cuts that affect beneficiaries and those that affect only providers.
The need to make such distinctions came into sharp focus this week as Mr. Obama and a bipartisan special Congressional committee intensified their search for ways to squeeze hundreds of billions of dollars out of federal health spending.
In his recommendations to Congress on Monday, Mr. Obama proposed cutting health spending by $320 billion over 10 years: $248 billion from the projected growth of Medicare and $72 billion from Medicaid and other programs.
The Congressional panel is expected to seek similar savings in health programs, or more, as it looks for ways to reduce federal budget deficits by a total of $1.5 trillion over 10 years.
Even some of Mr. Obama's allies said his Medicaid proposals could harm beneficiaries.
''The Medicaid cuts in the president's proposal shift the burden to states and ultimately onto the shoulders of seniors, people with disabilities and low-income families who depend on the program as their lifeline,'' said Ronald F. Pollack, executive director of Families USA, a liberal-leaning consumer group.
Matt D. Salo, executive director of the National Association of Medicaid Directors, representing state officials, said, ''You would have a hard time cutting significant amounts from Medicaid payments to states without hurting beneficiaries.''
States, experiencing severe fiscal problems in recent years, have reduced Medicaid payments to doctors, hospitals, nursing homes, pharmacies and other providers and have cut back services, including dental and vision care for adults.
Beneficiary advocates express fewer qualms about cutting federal payments to drug companies or insurance companies, which manage care for millions of people in Medicaid and Medicare.
John C. Rother, president of the National Coalition on Health Care, which represents consumers, employers and providers, said the new health care law ''showed that it is possible to slow the growth of Medicare costs without hurting beneficiaries.'' On the other hand, Mr. Rother said, ''Medicaid shows that if you starve a program and provide inadequate reimbursement, access to doctors will be at risk.''
It is possible to save money and provide better care at the same time -- for example, by reducing the number of patients readmitted to hospitals within a few weeks after they are discharged, Mr. Rother said.
Sometimes, cuts backfire. Medicare payments for home health care plummeted in the late 1990s, forcing many patients to spend more time in hospitals and nursing homes.
When Congress cut Medicare payments to private insurers as part of Mr. Obama's health care overhaul last year, Republicans predicted that insurers would increase premiums or pull out of the program. But the administration said last week that premiums for the popular private plans would decline in 2012 while enrollment was expected to rise.
Doctors' offices and hospitals say their finances are more precarious. Be ''careful what you cut,'' says an advertisement being run by teaching hospitals. ''Reducing the deficit is important,'' it says, but ''cutting federal support for doctor training and medical research is a bad idea that would hurt everyone.''
The Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, an independent federal panel, has recommended increases of just 1 percent in Medicare payments to doctors and hospitals in 2012. It weighs many factors in deciding how much of an increase, if any, is needed.
For several years, the commission has said that hospitals under financial pressure -- because of competition or other factors -- tend to reduce their costs. And the lower costs, it says, allow efficient hospitals to make money on Medicare patients without compromising the quality of care.
In a recent report to Congress, the commission said that ''profit margins on Medicare patients remain negative for 64 percent of hospitals.'' But, it said, the supply of hospital beds appears to be adequate, and more hospitals are offering specialized services like robotic surgery and cardiac catheterization.
Likewise, the commission said that most Medicare beneficiaries had ''good access to physician care,'' but that some, including minorities, reported problems, particularly when they were looking for new doctors. Doctors and health policy experts said these problems could quickly increase if Medicare freezes or cuts payments to doctors as part of a deficit-reduction plan.
The jury is still out on a new system of competitive bidding that Medicare is using to buy home medical equipment like wheelchairs, walkers and oxygen tanks. The Obama administration says the lower payment rates have saved billions of dollars for taxpayers and beneficiaries. But suppliers say the changes have disrupted service to some beneficiaries.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ronald F. Pollack, executive director of Families USA, said the president's Medicaid proposals could harm beneficiaries. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (92%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); FAMILY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BONE FRACTURES (77%); DISABLED PERSONS (76%); CONSUMER LAW (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (73%); STROKES (73%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); BRAIN INJURIES (70%); BRAIN (70%); LIBERALISM (69%); MEDICAID (58%); INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



902 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: Romney Enlists Congressional Help

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
Mitt Romney is stepping up his effort to consolidate the support of the Republican establishment and announced on Tuesday that he was forming a Congressional team to recruit party leaders to join his campaign. 
Senator Roy Blunt of Missouri is leading the movement on Capitol Hill, overseeing the effort to sign up members of the House and Senate to get behind the candidacy of Mr. Romney. Republican presidential candidates often try to distance themselves from Washington, but Mr. Romney is working to shore up support from party leaders to bolster his argument that he is the most electable candidate to challenge President Obama.
The rise of Gov. Rick Perry of Texas has excited parts of the Republican base, but has also stirred concern among party leaders who believe that he has limited cross-over appeal in the general election. The endorsement by Mr. Blunt is the latest sign of Mr. Romney's intensifying effort to secure the party establishment.
''Through his experience in the private sector and as governor, I believe Mitt has the right background to help create more economic certainty and spur job growth in Missouri and nationwide,'' said Mr. Blunt, a former member of the House, who played a similar role in the 2000 presidential campaign for George W. Bush.
The fight for the Republican nomination has escalated between Mr. Romney and Mr. Perry through a series of debates this month. The two candidates have shown sharp divisions over their positions on Social Security and other issues.
The focus on Social Security, a program whose constitutionality Mr. Perry once questioned, has caused anxiety among some Republicans working to win a Senate majority and keep control of the House next year. But Mr. Perry also has found a strong following from some members of the Tea Party movement and has been a leading critic of Washington.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); ROY BLUNT (90%); RICK PERRY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



903 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Plan to Raise Taxes on the Rich

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''President's Plan on Deficit Mixes Cuts and Taxes'' (front page, Sept. 19):
Republicans like Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin have branded President Obama's proposal to have the wealthy pay modestly more in federal income taxes ''class warfare.'' But what are Republicans willing to ask of the affluent to help resolve our fiscal problems? 
I can't come up with one thing. Not one.
When Mr. Ryan and his colleagues say we face fiscal collapse and ask sacrifice of everyone except those who make the most and have the most, that is class warfare. And it's being waged by his own party.
DANIEL A. SIMON New York, Sept. 20, 2011
To the Editor:
Should we increase taxes during a recession? Probably not, but are we in a recession? That depends on which economy we are looking at, because we have two now.
The upstairs economy is flying high. Wealth is piling upon wealth, and luxury goods are flying out of the boutiques.
But the economy down here is seriously hemorrhaging, and needs help badly. Our course should be clear: Increase taxes on the upstairs economy, and cut taxes downstairs.
ALLAN R. SHICKMAN St. Louis, Sept. 20, 2011
To the Editor:
Re ''Obama Confirms New Hard Stand With Debt Relief'' (front page, Sept. 20):
Just once, I'd like to hear an honest discussion of taxes.
Just once, I'd like a Democrat to acknowledge that there is a progressive income tax in this country, and that many of the so-called rich pay the highest marginal rate every year.
I'd also like to hear an admission that a shockingly large number of the middle class pay little or nothing.
Just once, I'd like to hear a Republican acknowledge that the tax code is riddled with corporate and individual tax breaks that make no sense, and that the favored treatment for hedge fund profits and carried interest is nothing short of outrageous.
Just once, I'd like to hear any politician call for simplification of the tax code and really mean it. I'd like an admission that the impenetrable mass of current tax law is a paean to lobbyists, and guaranteed job security for an army of lawyers, accountants and Internal Revenue Service bureaucrats.
Just one time.
CHUCK OKOSKY Saratoga Springs, N.Y., Sept. 20, 2011
To the Editor:
Speaker John A. Boehner's response to President Obama's speech typifies the disconnect between the reality I and many of my friends inhabit and the land where corporations get welfare without waiting in a single line.
Mr. Boehner referred to ''this administration's insistence on raising taxes on job creators.'' Job creators? Those of us who pay attention to the monthly unemployment reports would beg to differ.
President Obama has finally shown some of the leadership and spark that captured the imagination of the American public. His comment ''This is not class warfare. It's math'' resonates with the strength he displayed in his run for the presidency. Welcome back, Mr. President. We've missed you sorely.
GRETCHEN S. ADAMEK East Hartford, Conn., Sept. 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX INCREASES (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); JOB CREATION (85%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LUXURY GOODS (77%); TAX REFORM (74%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



904 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
LIBYA'S NEW LEADERSHIP IS PRAISED BY OBAMA
President Obama extended to Libya's transitional leader a diplomatic honor never offered his predecessor, meeting formally with Mustafa Abdel-Jalil at the United Nations and heralding the victory of Libyan rebels who brought an end to the 42-year reign of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi. PAGE A4 
CHINA INVESTIGATES CRASH
Six weeks after a high-speed rail crash in Wenzhou, China, killed 40 people and injured 191 others, a government investigative panel is readying a report on the disaster. Those who were injured and the survivors of the dead say the Railway Ministry, which has a long history of corruption, skimped on safety work, bungled the rescue effort and tried to hide the extent of its failings. PAGE A4
NATIONAL
GEORGIA DENIES CLEMENCY
TO DEATH ROW INMATE
Barring an unimaginable legal reversal, Troy Davis will be executed by lethal injection at a Georgia prison, after the Georgia State Board of Pardons and Parole denied his clemency. But in Atlanta, the capital city of the Deep South, the case will continue to resonate as barometer of racism in America, many said. PAGE A21
NEW YORK
JURORS' OPINIONS OF MAYOR
COULD HAVE ROLE IN TRIAL
The trial of John F. Haggerty Jr., a Republican political consultant accused of stealing more than $1 million from Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, offers a political backdrop not typically found in criminal cases. With Mr. Bloomberg cast in the role of victim in this case and expected to take the witness stand, how prospective jurors perceive the mayor could be a factor in whether they are chosen for the trial. PAGE A24
BUSINESS
REPUBLICAN CANDIDATES
TAKE AIM AT DODD-FRANK
The Dodd-Frank Act, the sprawling regulatory effort to address the causes of the financial crisis, has become the newest target of Republican presidendtial candidates. But in trying to turn Dodd-Frank into the new Obamacare, Republicans are largely ignoring the basic trade-off that the financial law represents, supporters say. PAGE B1
OBITUARIES
TOM WILSON, 80
A cartoonist, he created the comic-strip character Ziggy and suggested the character could be whatever you wanted him to be. PAGE B19
SPORTS
SIGHS FOR GIANTS' FIRST WIN, BUT NOT ALL ARE OF RELIEF
Injuries have severely hobbled the Giants' defense since before the season began. Monday's victory over the St. Louis Rams would seemingly have provided some solace. Instead, concerns on both sides of the ball remain, starting with the injury problem now spreading to the offense. PAGE B13
BASEBALL'S BRONZE AGE
Statues, though hardly a new phenomenon at baseball stadiums, are now popping up all over. Some 70 former players have been immortalized, several this season. PAGE B12
ARTS
RENOWNED CLOWN LEAVING
THE BIG APPLE CIRCUS
Grandma, a k a Barry Lubin, the 59-year old star clown who began fooling around at the Big Apple Circus 29 years ago, will be leaving the circus at the end of the season to perform in Europe. PAGE C1
DINING
MADISON SQUARE GARDEN GETS A NEW MENU
Madison Square Garden will introduce a new menu as part of a six-year, $850 million refurbishment. PAGE D1
OP-ED
Maureen Dowd PAGE A27
Thomas Friedman PAGE A27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (89%); JURY TRIALS (87%); ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (76%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); PAROLE (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); SCULPTURE (74%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (71%); CORRUPTION (71%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); LARCENY & THEFT (70%); TESTIMONY (70%); PARDONS (68%); JURY DUTY (66%); WITNESSES (66%); BASEBALL (65%); VISUAL ARTISTS (65%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (60%)

COMPANY: BIG APPLE CIRCUS LTD (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711190 OTHER PERFORMING ARTS COMPANIES (60%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); THOMAS J WILSON (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



905 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: Capital One Denies ING Takeover Would Make It 'Too Big to Fail'

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
8:08 p.m. Updated
Capital One on Tuesday delivered a sweeping defense of its proposed $9 billion takeover of ING Direct USA, aiming to allay concerns that the deal would create another ''too big to fail'' banking giant.
''The acquisition of ING Direct will further reduce, rather than increase, any risk to the financial system,'' John Finneran, Capital One's general counsel, told the Federal Reserve, which hosted the first of three public hearings to examine the controversial deal. 
Consumer groups and smaller banks, warning that the deal could pose systemic threats to the economy, cast doubt on Capital One's claims.
''Our main concern with the acquisition today concerns systemic risk,'' Christopher Cole, senior vice president for the Independent Community Bankers of America, said at the Fed's hearing in Washington. He called for the Fed to impose a ''moratorium'' on all acquisitions involving banks that house more than $100 billion in assets.
In June, Capital One announced plans to acquire ING Group's online banking unit in the United States for $6.2 billion in cash. Under the terms of the deal, Capital One would also issue $2.8 billion worth of new shares to ING, giving the bank a 9.9 percent stake.
Capital One, best known for its profitable credit card business and catchy television ads, is quietly amassing a big national banking franchise. The ING deal would elevate Capital One, currently the eighth-largest bank in the United States, to the No. 5 spot. The combined institutions would have some $200 billion in deposits, raising questions about the deal's impact on customers and the broader economy.
The hearing on Tuesday came at the behest of Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, who pushed the Fed to gauge the potential pitfalls of the deal. Ultimately, it is up to the central bank to either bless or block the deal.
Under the Dodd-Frank act, the financial regulatory overhaul co-authored by Mr. Frank, the Fed must first examine whether the merger poses a systemic threat to the economy. When the risks outweigh the rewards, the Fed is required to scuttle the deal.
Consumer advocates are calling on the Fed to do just that. They argue that the takeover will create another behemoth bank that one day could come calling for a taxpayer bailout.
''We already have four too-big-to-fail banks. Why make a fifth?'' John Taylor, president of the National Community Reinvestment Coalition, said this summer. At the hearing on Tuesday, Mr. Taylor told the Fed: ''You have a duty to deny Capital One's plan to buy ING Direct,'' noting that the bank's credit card portfolio was loaded with risky subprime loans.
While critics outlined a list of concerns - and pressured the Fed not to approve the deal - Capital One countered by painting itself as a plain-vanilla bank, focused on lending to mom-and-pop investors rather than writing complex derivatives and other securities that three years ago drove Wall Street to the brink.
The deal, Mr. Finneran said, ''will not lessen competition or result in any undue concentration of resources.'' He added that Capital One would open new loan products to ING customers and, in another crucial concession, would soon start a 10-year, $180 billion community development investment, a nod to concerns that the combined firms will ignore low-income communities. Mr. Finneran also announced that Capital One would operate ING Direct USA as a separate bank, at least for a while.
The Fed offered few insights into its perspective on the deal. In recent weeks, however, at least one Fed official shied away from broadly interpreting the central bank's power over deal-making - even when an acquisition appeared risky.
''While Congress instructed us to consider the extent to which a proposed acquisition would pose a greater risk to financial stability, it clearly did not instruct us to reject an acquisition simply because there would be any increase in such risks,'' the Federal Reserve Board governor Daniel K. Tarullo said in a speech last week.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Taylor, head of the National Community Reinvestment Coalition, told the Fed that Capital One's plan was too risky. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); TAKEOVERS (91%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MERGERS (78%); COMMUNITY BANKS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); CONSUMER LAW (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); INTERNET BANKING (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); LAWYERS (72%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (71%); CREDIT CARDS (70%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (64%)

COMPANY: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (93%); ING GROEP NV (92%); INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY BANKERS OF AMERICA (69%); ING BANK FSB (58%)

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (93%); INGA (BIT) (92%); INGA (AMS) (92%); ING (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (58%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



906 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: Promoting City's Efforts On Health, To the World

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS; Clyde Haberman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Early in his political career, Michael R. Bloomberg confessed that a few positions interested him besides mayor of New York, including president of the World Bank and secretary general of the United Nations.
On Tuesday, he could at least pretend to have crossed another conquest off his list as he stood before the United Nations and delivered a speech on his administration's health agenda.
It was a chance for him to celebrate New York's successes on a world stage, a few days after his administration released data showing the eroding effects of the financial crisis on city life: more violent crime, more people on food stamps and fewer summer jobs for youths. 
And while he did not deliver the soaring cadences of the Gettysburg Address, he was not above giving advice to the world. He took full advantage of the opportunity to brag, to indulge in his inner scold and to give a plug to Bloomberg Philanthropies and his alma mater, Johns Hopkins, for their work on public health.
Through his administration's relentless focus on public health, Mr. Bloomberg told the gathering, New Yorkers had seen their life expectancy rise by more than a year and a half, to more than 79 years, faster and higher than for Americans over all. ''And I believe all nations worldwide can achieve similar success,'' he said.
Mr. Bloomberg spoke as delegates wrapped up a two-day summit on noncommunicable diseases, like heart disease, lung disease, cancer and diabetes, before the General Assembly convenes Wednesday to discuss matters like the Palestinian bid for recognition as a state.
The summit gave chronic disease the same level of attention that had previously been given to H.I.V. and AIDS. In speeches, speakers said the risk factors for noncommunicable diseases -- lack of exercise, a diet high in sugar, salt and saturated fats, smoking, alcohol abuse -- had spread through developing countries, adding to the burden of lost productivity and health care costs already imposed by infectious diseases.
The United Nations discussion sounded a lot like a meeting of the city's health department, as speakers talked about the merits of taxing sugary drinks and cigarettes and convincing the food industry to reduce salt in processed foods.
In his speech, Mr. Bloomberg said he had learned that if the government changed the environment, for instance by banning smoking in bars or reconfiguring streets to make them safer, changes in behavior would follow. ''Second, and very importantly in today's world, healthy solutions are not necessarily costly solutions,'' the mayor said. ''Far from it. New York's Smoke-Free Air Act, our restrictions on trans fats and our requirements concerning calorie posting in restaurants cost virtually nothing in public money to put into effect. And cigarette taxes raise public revenues.''
Mr. Bloomberg had been invited to speak because of his ''projects dealing with noncommunicable diseases and their causes,'' a spokesman for Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, president of the General Assembly, said.
There is evidence that New York City-type efforts had been catching on even before the United Nations took up the subject. In his speech, Mr. Bloomberg cited recent antismoking efforts in Sao Paulo, Brazil, and in Turkey, Nepal, Lebanon, Argentina and Ecuador.
As for that job the mayor coveted, he seems to be practicing, just in case. This was his fifth time speaking at the United Nations, after doing so in 2002, 2003, 2008 and 2010.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg addressed the United Nations about his health policies on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); SMOKING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (88%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (88%); SMOKING BANS (85%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CITIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); OILS & FATS (76%); CITY LIFE (75%); RESTAURANTS (74%); DIETING (74%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); CHRONIC DISEASES (69%); NUTRITION (69%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (69%); PHILANTHROPY (68%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (67%); FOOD INDUSTRY (65%); TAX AUTHORITIES (65%); CANCER (64%); DIABETES (64%); HEART DISEASE (64%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (62%); VIOLENT CRIME (55%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (50%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



907 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Are We Going to Roll Up Our Sleeves or Limp On?

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
It becomes clearer every week that our country faces a big choice: We can either have a hard decade or a bad century.
We can either roll up our sleeves and do what's needed to overcome our post-cold war excesses and adapt to the demands of the 21st century or we can just keep limping into the future.
Given those stark choices, one would hope that our politicians would rise to the challenge by putting forth fair and credible recovery proposals that match the scale of our debt problem and contain the three elements that any serious plan must have: spending cuts, increases in revenues and investments in the sources of our strength. But that, alas, is not what we're getting, which is why there remains an opening for an independent Third Party candidate in the 2012 campaign. 
The Republicans have come nowhere near rising to our three-part challenge because the G.O.P. is no longer a ''conservative'' party, offering a conservative formula for American renewal. The G.O.P. has been captured by a radical antitax wing, and the party's leaders are too afraid to challenge it. What would real conservatives be offering now?
They would understand, as President Eisenhower did, that at this crucial hinge in our history we cannot just be about cutting. We also need to be investing in the sources of our greatness: infrastructure, education, immigration and government-funded research. Real conservatives would understand that you cannot just shred the New Deal social safety nets, which are precisely what enable the public to tolerate freewheeling capitalism, with its brutal ups and downs.
Real conservatives would understand that we cannot maintain our vital defense budget without an appropriate tax base. Real conservatives would understand that we can simplify the tax code, get rid of all the special-interest giveaways and raise revenues at the same time. Real conservatives would never cut taxes and add a new Medicare entitlement in the middle of two wars. And real conservatives would understand that the Tea Party has become the Tea Kettle Party. It is people in real distress about our predicament letting off steam by trying to indiscriminately cut everywhere. But steam without an engine -- without a strategic plan for American greatness based on spending cuts, tax reform and investments in tomorrow -- will take us nowhere. Countries that don't invest in the future tend to not do well there. Real conservatives know that.
I've argued that the only way for Obama to expose just how radical the G.O.P. has become would be for the president to put out in detail his version of a credible ''Grand Bargain'' and then go sell it to the country. But that proposal had to include real long-term spending cuts in Medicare and Social Security so they can be preserved, tax reform that raises revenues by asking more of the rich -- but also demands something from everyone -- and an agenda for investing in our growth engines, like schools and infrastructure, right now to stimulate the economy today in ways that also increase our productivity for tomorrow. That plan should have been a combination of the Simpson-Bowles deficit reduction proposal and Mr. Obama's new jobs agenda announced last week.
Such a credible, fair ''Obama Plan'' for deficit reduction married to a credible jobs initiative would have captured America's radical center and made life very difficult for the G.O.P., which can't accept any tax increases and has no investment agenda other than tax cuts. It was the only chance for maneuvering the G.O.P. into a Grand Bargain.
Mr. Obama gave us the credible $447 billion jobs program, but his deficit reduction plan announced on Monday to pay for it and trim long-term spending does not rise to the scale we need. It may motivate his base, but it will not attract independents and centrists and, therefore, it will not corner the Republicans.
As The Washington Post reported: ''The latest Obama plan 'doesn't produce any more in realistic savings than the plan they offered in April,' said Maya MacGuineas, the president of the bipartisan Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget. 'They've filled in details, repackaged it and replaced one gimmick with another. They don't even stabilize the debt. This is just not enough.' The most disheartening development, MacGuineas and others said, is Obama's decision to count $1.1 trillion in savings from the drawdown of troops in Iraq and Afghanistan toward his debt-reduction total. Because Obama has no intention of continuing war spending at last year's elevated levels, that $1.1 trillion would never have been spent.''
A Financial Times editorial summarized my feelings: ''American voters are not looking for champions of their preferred redistributive stance, but responsible attitudes to the country's challenges. If Mr. Obama suggests a millionaire's tax can save ordinary voters from pain, he will fail, economically and politically.''
My fading hope is that this is Obama's opening bid and enough Republicans will come to their senses and engage him again in a Grand Bargain. My fear is that both parties have just started their 2012 campaigns. In which case, the rest of us will just sit here, hostages to fortune, orphans of a political system gone mad, hunkering down for a bad century.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); COLD WAR (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); BUDGETS (75%); SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); MEDICARE (69%); TAX RELIEF (68%); TAX REFORM (66%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (57%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (52%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



908 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Deal To Hire More At Low End

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

 BODY:
DETROIT -- The new labor contract between General Motors and the United Automobile Workers will accelerate the hiring of lower-paid, entry-level workers at the company and bring jobs to the United States that were headed for Mexico.
While the U.A.W. achieved only modest economic gains for its 48,000 members at G.M. -- longtime G.M. workers will receive no wage increases under the deal -- the emphasis on adding jobs was the top concern for the union's leadership. 
''What we were looking for was jobs, jobs, jobs, and that's what we came away with,'' Joe Ashton, a U.A.W. vice president, said at a media briefing here on Tuesday.
The union estimates that G.M. will create or preserve 6,400 jobs over the next four years, mostly by hiring new, entry-level employees but also by retaining work in the United States that was going to move to Mexico.
The impact will be felt in several communities that are home to G.M. facilities. The company agreed to reopen idled assembly operations at a plant in Spring Hill, Tenn., add a shift of workers at a truck plant in Wentzville, Mo., and increase employment at an engine plant in Romulus, Mich.
Over all, the union said G.M. would invest $2.5 billion in factories in this country over the life of the contract, which expires in 2015.
While some of the additional jobs will be taken by workers laid off during G.M.'s bankruptcy, the majority of the positions will be filled by new, entry-level workers, Mr. Ashton said.
The union won better wages and benefits for lower-tier workers in the agreement as well.
G.M. now has about 1,900 second-tier workers, who are paid a starting wage of about $14 an hour. Longtime union workers earn double that amount.
Under the new agreement, the base hourly wage of the new workers will go up to nearly $16 immediately after the contract is ratified, and increase to about $19 over the next four years.
The entry-level workers will also get enhanced health care coverage in the new agreement and financial assistance toward college tuition programs.
Even with slightly higher wages, the new workers are considerably less expensive for G.M. than traditional U.A.W. employees, because of both lower wages and less generous benefits. Analysts said that as older G.M. workers retire, the influx of lower-tier employees would further reduce the company's production costs.
''Given G.M.'s demographics, long-term savings could be substantial,'' Brian Johnson, a Barclays Capital analyst, said in a research report.
About 35 percent of G.M.'s workers are eligible to retire, said Mr. Ashton. The new contract provides $10,000 bonuses for those employees if they retire within the next two years.
Other than the entry-level pay raises, the veteran G.M. workers received no wage increases in the tentative contract, which union members will vote on by next week. Mr. Ashton sought, but was unable to get, cost-of-living increases for the entire work force.
However, every U.A.W. worker at G.M. will receive a $5,000 bonus for approving the contract, as well as $1,000 ''inflation protection'' payments in each of the last three years of the agreement.
G.M. also agreed to modifications in its profit-sharing formula for all workers.
Under the old system, payments were calculated solely on profits made in the United States.
The new contract calls for workers to get about $1,000 in profit-sharing for every $1 billion that G.M. earns in its larger North American operations, which include Canada and Mexico.
The union's president, Bob King, said workers were already guaranteed at least a $3,500 profit-sharing check in 2012 based on profits already earned this year at G.M.
G.M. executives have declined to comment on the savings the company expects from the new agreement, which was reached on Sept. 16 after marathon negotiations that lasted two days past the expiration of the old contract. It was not explained in detail by the union until Tuesday.
In a statement, G.M.'s chief labor negotiator, Cathy Clegg, emphasized that the deal stabilized the company's cost structure as it built on its turnaround since emerging from its government-sponsored bankruptcy in 2009.
''We used a creative problem-solving approach to reach an agreement that addresses the needs of employees and positions our business for long-term success,'' said Ms. Clegg.
Mr. King said Tuesday that he expected Ford and Chrysler to follow the model set in negotiations with G.M.
''This is a general framework and pattern that we will go to Ford and Chrysler with,'' Mr. King said. ''I'm confident we can put together an agreement with both.''
Negotiations at Ford and Chrysler could take several more days. Mr. King said the union had not yet decided which company to focus on first.
Chrysler, the smallest and least profitable of Detroit's Big Three, may balk at matching the size of the bonuses agreed to by G.M.
Talks at Ford could also be affected by the union's ability to strike the company if discussions break down. The U.A.W. agreed to not strike G.M. or Chrysler in this round of negotiations as a condition of the government's bailouts of those two companies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (73%); BONUS PAY (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); TUITION FEES (71%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (60%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (84%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) MEXICO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



909 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: Marines Hit the Ground Running In Seeking Recruits at Gay Center

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

 BODY:
TULSA, Okla. -- Master Sgt. Anthony Henry, a top Marine recruiting trainer for the southwestern United States, pulled up to Tulsa's biggest gay community center on Tuesday morning and left his Chevy where he could make a fast getaway. ''I have an exit strategy,'' he said. ''I know where my choke points are, I've strategically parked my car right on the curbside, I have an out.''
But as it happened, one of the strangest days in the history of the United States Marine Corps unfolded without the protests and insults that Sergeant Henry had feared. Sergeant Henry, who had been invited to set up a recruiting booth on the first day of the end of ''don't ask, don't tell'' at the Dennis R. Neill Equality Center in downtown Tulsa, instead spent it in quiet conversation with a trickle of gay women who came in to ask about joining the Marines.
''It's your business and you don't have to share it,'' Sergeant Henry told Ariel Pratt, 20, who asked whether she would face discrimination in the military as a lesbian serving openly. ''But you're also free to be at the mall with your girlfriend.'' 
Ms. Pratt, 20, asked Sergeant Henry what he liked about the Marines.
''It's like a little family,'' he said. ''We get mad at each other, we joke with each other, but we don't let anybody else make fun of us.''
''That's pretty cool,'' she said.
The Marines were the service most opposed to ending the ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy, but they were the only one of five invited branches of the military to turn up with their recruiting table and chin-up bar at the center Tuesday morning. Although Marines pride themselves on being the most testosterone-fueled of the services, they also ferociously promote their view of themselves as the best. With the law now changed, the Marines appear determined to prove that they will be better than the Army, Navy, Air Force and Coast Guard in recruiting gay, lesbian and bisexual service members.
Still, judging by the traffic at the gay rights center on Tuesday, there will not be an immediate flood of gay and lesbian Marine applicants. By 3 p.m., more than four hours after the Marines had set up their booth opposite the center's AIDS quilt, only three women had wandered in, none ideal recruits. The local television crews who had come to watch the action -- or inaction, as it turned out -- easily outnumbered them.
The first potential recruit, First Lt. Misty McConahy of the Oklahoma National Guard, asked if the Marines had openings for any behavioral health officers, her specialty in the guard. She was told no, the Marines use the Navy for medical care. (Later, Sergeant Henry said that he should have sent her to a recruiter for Marine Corps officers, given her rank.)
''It's a lot of courage for her to come out like that,'' Sergeant Henry said, after watching Lieutenant McConahy surrounded by reporters. ''Her commander is probably going to see that on TV tonight.''
The second potential recruit, Ms. Pratt, the niece of a late benefactor of the gay rights center, had scars up her left arm from cutting herself in high school -- an almost certain medical disqualification for the Marines. ''I've been recruiting for a very long time,'' Sergeant Henry told her, gently. ''Those are very tough to deal with.'' He took her name and number and said he would make some calls to see what he could do.
The third potential recruit was a 25-year-old overweight high school dropout. Sergeant Henry told her, again gently, that she should come back after she got her diploma and got in shape.
Not that getting into the Marines is easy for anyone right now. As the Marines tell it, only one in 10 applicants qualify for service, with most turned away for a variety of afflictions: asthma, attention deficit disorder, overweight (a 5-foot, 8-inch, 18-year-old male can't weigh more than 180 pounds before boot camp), excessive tattoos, joint injuries, lack of a high school diploma and a history of drugs beyond infrequent marijuana use.
A bad economy has made jobs in the Marines all the more desirable, at a time when Marines anticipate shrinking their force -- down to an undetermined number from the current 200,000 on active duty -- as the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan wind down. Beyond the economy, said Sergeant Henry, a veteran of three tours in Iraq, the other motivator is the same as always: ''They want to be a Marine and they want to blow stuff up.''
The Marines were at the gay rights center at the invitation of Toby Jenkins, the center's executive director, who said he saw no better way to celebrate the end of ''don't ask, don't tell'' in a conservative state that strongly supports the military.
''If we've been fighting for 15 years for the right to be in the military, we said, 'Let's just ask military recruiters if they'd be available,' '' he said. ''But no one was prepared for that question. It was like I was talking to people like they were deer in the headlights.''
The Marines did in fact think that Mr. Jenkins's invitation might be a hoax, so they checked him out and talked to their superiors, who talked to their superiors. Then they took a deep breath and decided to go. As the day wore on, the Marines said the bust in recruiting had been made up for in media exposure and public relations. Sergeant Henry and his public affairs officer, Capt. Abraham Sipe, gave interviews at the center with five local television stations, three print reporters and one correspondent for National Public Radio. In between, gay rights supporters stopped by to shake their hands.
''Toby said there were cute guys in uniform here,'' said Cecilia Wessinger, 46, a longtime friend of the center, who wandered in about 2 p.m. She thanked Sergeant Henry for coming and acknowledged that she was surprised to see him. A few hours later, Kelly Kirby, 57, a retired Air Force sergeant, thanked Captain Sipe. In the 1970s, he said, his boyfriend had been discharged from the Air Force, but he himself had not been discovered, and the memory still haunted him.
''I appreciate you being here,'' Mr. Kirby said.
By 5 p.m. the Marines had packed up their booth and chin-up bar and headed out, with plans to come back later to attend a panel discussion. It was all uncharted territory. As Sergeant Henry had said the day before of the new world the Marines now inhabit, ''At first it's going to be kind of shock and awe.''
But like a good Marine, he was with the program: ''My take is, if they can make it through our boot camp, which is the toughest boot camp in the world, then they ought to have the opportunity to wear the uniform.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Staff Sgt. Chris Cano, a Marine recruiter, prepared to set up Tuesday in Oklahoma. The Marines got a small but warm reception. (A1)
Master Sgt. Anthony Henry, center, and Staff Sgt. Chris Cano told one prospective applicant she needed to lose weight.
 ''That's pretty cool,'' Ariel Pratt said when told of Marine life. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (91%); MILITARY RECRUITING (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); NAVIES (78%); ARMIES (78%); AIDS & HIV (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); LGBT RIGHTS (73%); AIR FORCES (70%); QUILTS & QUILTING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TULSA, OK, USA (94%) OKLAHOMA, USA (95%); WEST USA (91%); SOUTHWEST, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



910 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: Turkey's Leadership: To be a role model, Prime Minister Erdogan needs to weigh his words more carefully

 BODY:
The Arab Spring tour taken this month by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey demonstrated the good and the bad of his increasingly confident leadership.
The Muslim world needs democratic role models. On his visits to Egypt, Libya and Tunisia, the Turkish leader, who leads the Islam-rooted Justice and Development Party, made a strong and very welcome case that Islam and democracy are compatible. ''Turkey is 99 percent Muslim, yet it is a democratic secular state where all religions are equal,'' he said in Tunisia where voters next month will elect their first constituent assembly since the ouster of President Zine el-Abidine Ben Ali. 
But Mr. Erdogan's increasingly shrill denunciations of Israel are a danger to the region as well as to Turkey. During his visit to Egypt -- where anti-Israeli protests have become violent -- he called Israel ''the West's spoiled child.'' He needs to stop playing for the applause lines and weigh the full consequences of his words.
There is a lot about Turkey that deserves to be emulated. Over the last nine years, Mr. Erdogan's party has unleashed the energies of Turkey's entrepreneurs, asserted civilian control of the once-dominant army and enacted human rights reforms. He also has a worrying authoritarian side and important choices to make as Turkey moves to replace its army-drafted Constitution with one that is fully democratic.
Mr. Erdogan is playing a particularly dangerous game with Israel. There is no question that dealing with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel can be frustrating. Turkey downgraded relations after Israel rejected a sound, American-mediated deal to close the book on Israel's ill-fated assault on a Gaza aid flotilla that killed eight Turks and one Turkish-American.
But Mr. Erdogan has dangerously upped the ante -- and put the United States, a NATO ally, in a particularly difficult spot -- with his threat to send warships into the Mediterranean Sea to escort Turkish shipping. If both sides aren't careful, things could spiral out of control. At a minimum, Mr. Erdogan is risking his country's substantial trade with Israel.
President Obama has worked hard to cultivate Mr. Erdogan but hasn't spared the tough talk in private, including about the Turkish leader's previous efforts to cozy up to Iran. And Mr. Erdogan has recently agreed to station a radar in Turkey as part of NATO's American-designed missile defense system to protect the region from Iran. Mr. Obama also privately urged him to cut ties with President Bashar al-Assad of Syria. Mr. Erdogan has said he no longer believes in Mr. Assad. He now needs to use Turkey's economic leverage and impose sanctions on Mr. Assad and his cronies.
As the chief of a major Muslim democracy, Mr. Erdogan can legitimately claim a leadership role. He needs to do so responsibly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); RELIGION (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (89%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); CHURCH & STATE (71%); MILITARY VESSELS (70%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (70%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (66%); NAVAL VESSELS (61%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (60%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (60%)

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (91%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (78%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (53%) TURKEY (98%); ISRAEL (94%); TUNISIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EGYPT (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



911 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1320 words

HEADLINE: A Banker's Secret Wealth

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr. and RAPHAEL MINDER

 BODY:
Emilio Botin is a billionaire Spanish banker renowned for running a tight ship. He asks that his top credit officers at Santander -- one of Europe's largest banks -- make a trek to his vacation home each summer to report on loan exposures. And he queries the head of his charitable foundation, euro for euro, on its smallest donations.
Yet, there is one not-so-small matter that Mr. Botin (pronounced bo-TEEN) has failed to keep tabs on: a Swiss bank account secretly opened long ago by his father that grew to such a size that when Spanish authorities discovered its existence last year, Mr. Botin and other family members paid 200 million euros (about $273 million currently) in taxes to avoid tax evasion charges.
At the request of tax fraud inspectors, a Spanish national court is investigating whether the payment is enough, given the amount that was stashed abroad; tax experts in Spain say that the account could reach two billion euros. The court has also said that officials need more time to sift through the blizzard of documents that the family submitted and will consider whether a criminal charge of document fraud should be brought. 
A lawyer for the Botins, Jesus Remon, said the family was cooperating with the investigation and was ''fully in compliance with its tax obligations following their voluntary filing'' last year. He added that no family member had been charged with wrongdoing.
Mr. Botin's tax problems come as debate intensifies over whether struggling governments should demand more tax revenue from the rich. On Monday, President Obama called to end some tax breaks for the wealthiest taxpayers in the United States.
Last Friday, the Spanish government reintroduced a wealth tax that it had abolished three years earlier, hoping to collect an estimated 1.08 billion euros from taxpayers with more than 700,000 euros in declared assets. Spain's wealthiest have so far not publicly endorsed calls for higher taxes, and Mr. Botin on Friday told reporters that ''it seems to me very bad to reintroduce'' the wealth tax.
More so than in other European countries, where bankers are largely anonymous figures, Mr. Botin holds sway in Spain. Although he avoids social events and his public utterances are few, his influence is seen as wide-ranging. And he has been able to retain control of Santander despite his family's controlling just 2 percent of its shares.
Neither the judiciary nor the family has provided details about how much money the Swiss bank account contained or how the amount grew over time. Nor would Mr. Remon, the lawyer, comment on whether Mr. Botin had been aware of the account.
What is known is that Mr. Botin's father, also called Emilio, left Spain with part of his wealth in late 1936, after the start of the Spanish Civil War, fearing, like many other Spaniards, what might come.
The elder Mr. Botin spent a few months in London before moving to Basel, Switzerland, and eventually returning to Spain to resume leadership of the bank that he had run since 1933. But while he returned to Spain, the money he salted away in Switzerland did not. The senior Botin died in 1993. Last year, the French government passed on to Spain data that it had obtained from Herve Falciani, a former employee in HSBC's Swiss subsidiary, naming almost 600 Spanish holders of secret bank accounts. Among those was one belonging to the estate of Mr. Botin's father.
In his opening summary, the judge in charge of the case, Fernando Andreu, highlighted ''the complexity of the hereditary structures'' of trusts, foundations and other companies set up to oversee the account. The closest he came to explaining what was in the account was to say that it also included a 12 percent stake in Bankinter, a midsize bank in which Jaime Botin, Emilio's brother, is a leading shareholder. That holding, at current stock market value, would be worth about $310 million.
Representatives for Mr. Botin have said that the family has voluntarily paid what it owes and that Mr. Botin expects that the government will agree and close the case. It seems altogether likely that Mr. Botin and his family will be cleared of any wrongdoing, which would come as no surprise to the banking patriarch's fiercest critics.
''Santander is not only too big to fail but it is also the best corporate brand image that Spain has -- so nobody in the government, judiciary or elsewhere is ever going to question seriously what they do,'' said Antonio Panea, a lawyer and shareholder gadfly who has fruitlessly sued the institution on a dozen claims.
All of which misses the point, Mr. Botin's defenders argue.
''I'm convinced that the Botins are not motivated by money, they are motivated by love of banking,'' said Mauro F. Guillen, a management professor at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania and author of a book on Santander's rise to prominence. ''If they were interested in maximizing their own wealth, they would have diversified out of Santander.''
Luis Arenzana, a portfolio manager in Madrid who worked at Santander as an investment banker in the early 1990s, said: ''Some of what Santander has done was borderline 'alegal' rather than illegal. But then to be investigated occasionally for possible misconduct is the normal state of affairs for any large bank -- anybody who succeeds in Spain is always suspected of wrongdoing.''
And a success it has been.
After taking over at the bank from his father in 1986, Mr. Botin caught domestic rivals flat-footed by raising the interest paid on deposits, by hugely increasing the market share of what had been a middle-of-the-pack bank with a minimal international presence.
Then, in a spate of deal making, Mr. Botin went from one takeover to the next. Besides Spain, Santander now has a dominant commercial banking presence in Brazil and Britain as well as a growing one in the United States through its majority stake in Sovereign Bank, based in Boston.
This ability to merge and grow made Santander the envy of banks worldwide. One of its competitors, Barclays, even went so far as to commission McKinsey to study how the bank did it, according to a person with knowledge of the consultancy project.
Now, instead of celebrating his extraordinary feat of transforming a regional bank into a global financial colossus, the billionaire patriarch is facing a set of challenges that could even jeopardize more than a century of family control of the bank.
In many respects, the financial crisis has done the most damage: Santander's once high-flying stock is down almost 40 percent over the last year. And while the bulk of the bank's profits come from Latin America and Britain, 35 percent of its loan book remains vulnerable to unemployment-ravaged Spain and bailed-out Portugal.
Spain's main newspapers have left Mr. Botin's tax problems mostly untouched after a flurry of stories in June when the criminal investigation was announced.
To a large extent that may be because of the widely held presumption that nothing more will come of the case. But some Spanish journalists also concede that they have not been aggressively digging.
''Santander spends massively on advertising and this influences the news treatment that they receive,'' said Salvador Arancibia, a business journalist in Madrid who has covered Santander since 1980 and who has also worked for the bank. ''Especially at a time when the media is in such a delicate financial situation.''
One of the few places in Spain where Mr. Botin is openly criticized is Puerta del Sol, the public square that since May has been home to the antiestablishment protests of Spain's ''indignados,'' or ''angry ones.'' Beyond the slogans and puns disparaging the family name (Botin means loot or booty in English), a broader displeasure was on display.
''Botin is the symbol of the powerful banker,'' said Luis De Miguel Sanz, a secondary school teacher. ''So he can't expect to be admired when his money is under investigation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Emilio Botin is head of Banco Santander, which is based in Madrid. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NACHO CUBERO/REUTERS) (B1)
 A Spanish court is investigating whether the family of Emilio Botin, the head of Banco Santander, paid too little taxes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL OCHOA DE OLZA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TAX FRAUD (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); EURO (89%); TAX CONSULTING (74%); COUNTERFEITING (73%); LAWYERS (73%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); CHARITIES (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (66%); US PRESIDENTS (63%); CIVIL WAR (50%)

COMPANY: BANCO SANTANDER SA (85%)

TICKER: SANT (LIS) (85%); SANT (BIT) (85%); SANB3 (BOVESPA) (85%); SAN (NYSE) (85%); SAN (MCE) (85%); SAN (BMV) (85%); BNC (LSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%)

PERSON: ANA PATRICIA BOTIN (89%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (79%) SPAIN (95%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



912 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: Dodd-Frank Act a Favorite Target for Republicans Laying Blame

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- On the stump, words like ''Obamacare'' roll off the tongue. ''Swap execution facility,'' not so much.
That has not stopped Republican presidential candidates from using the Dodd-Frank Act, the sprawling regulatory effort to address the causes of the financial crisis, as their newest anti-Obama target for what ails the economy.
Republicans have repeatedly invoked the law's 848-page girth -- and its rules on, among other things, trading derivatives and swaps -- as a symbol of government overreach that is killing jobs.
But in trying to turn Dodd-Frank into the new Obamacare, the disparaging term that opponents use to refer to the new health care law, Republicans are largely ignoring the basic trade-off that the financial law represents, supporters say. 
''Dodd-Frank is adding safety margins to the banking system,'' said Douglas J. Elliott, an economic studies fellow at the Brookings Institution. ''That may mean somewhat fewer jobs in normal years, in exchange for the benefit of avoiding something like what we just went through in the financial crisis, which was an immense job killer.''
So far, only a small portion of the law, which was signed by the president in July 2010, has taken hold. Of the up to 400 regulations called for in the act, only about a quarter have even been written, much less approved.
Dodd-Frank aims to rein in abusive lending practices and high-risk bets on complex derivative securities that nearly drove the banking system off a cliff. It creates a bureau to protect consumers from financial fraud, cuts the fees banks charge for debit card use, and sets up a means for the government to better supervise the nation's largest financial institutions to avoid expensive and catastrophic failures. And it calls for swap execution facilities, or exchanges on which derivatives and other complex financial instruments are traded.
Republicans say Dodd-Frank is the root of some of today's economic problems. It has stopped banks from lending to ''job creators,'' they contend, and is a direct cause of high unemployment. ''It created such uncertainty that the bankers, instead of making loans, pulled back,'' said Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, speaking at a South Carolina rally over Labor Day weekend where he again called for the law's repeal.
''I think part of that flows from the fact that the people who were putting that together, Dodd and Frank,'' he continued, referring to Democratic lawmakers former Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut and Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, ''as much as anyone I know in this country were responsible for the meltdown that we had.''
Mr. Frank demurs. ''Their claims are literally based on nothing but misconception,'' he said. ''The legislation is very popular. Nobody wants to go back to totally unregulated derivatives. Nobody wants banks to go back to making loans without having to retain some of them. This is a debate that is being conducted for the right wing.''
Rick Perry, the governor of Texas, has also called for the repeal of Dodd-Frank. ''We have to end it right now,'' he said, on the same weekend in the same state as Mr. Romney. Newt Gingrich said it is ''a devastatingly bad bill'' that is ''killing small banks, killing small business, killing the housing industry.'' Representative Michele Bachmann regularly reminds voters that she introduced the first Dodd-Frank repeal bill this year.
Former Gov. Jon Huntsman of Utah agrees, but he wouldn't stop there. He would also eliminate the Sarbanes-Oxley law passed in 2002, which set standards for corporate accountability in the wake of the Enron scandal.
The candidates could find that there are some political dangers to their deregulation strategy, as Republicans in Congress learned last year during the debate over the legislation. Then, opponents of measures to address the causes of the financial crisis found themselves rather easily painted as defenders of Wall Street financiers and the banking industry, rather than being on the side of borrowers and consumers. Mr. Obama has signaled recently that in the 2012 campaign he plans to portray Republicans as defending corporations and the wealthy.
These political risks probably account for the Republicans' current effort to portray Dodd-Frank as an enemy of jobs rather than as a burden to banks. Most of the regulations included in the law fall on the big banks that were at the center of the financial crisis -- Bank of America, Citigroup, Wells Fargo and JPMorgan Chase.
Those names rarely pass the candidates' lips, however, as Republicans have turned Dodd-Frank into a pinata. Instead, they invoke community bankers -- the small-town lenders who are more likely to be seen coaching a Little League team than wearing a pinstripe suit -- as the beleaguered victims of overregulation.
Community bankers worry about Dodd-Frank rules setting limits on how much banks can charge for debit card transactions. Those rules have yet to go into effect. In the meantime, the bankers say, they have plenty of money to lend, but small-business owners are not asking for loans.
''There are a lot of qualified borrowers who don't want to borrow, because they are not sure what is going to happen with the economy,'' said R. Todd Price, president of the First State Bank of Mesquite, Tex. ''I don't know if that can be directly associated with Dodd-Frank,'' he added. While the law ''will put a whole lot more regulations especially on community bankers,'' he said, ''I think they're yet to come.''
The arguments of the Republican candidates have some support among economists, particularly conservatives. Todd J. Zywicki, a senior scholar at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University, says that credit is the lifeblood of the economy, and that Dodd-Frank was designed to decrease access to credit. ''Dodd-Frank is the thing that is most harming the economy right now,'' he said. ''Big business can deal with regulatory uncertainty, but it makes small businesses reluctant to take on risk and expand their operations.''
Unless Republicans capture the presidency and can also muster 60 votes in the Senate, it appears unlikely that Dodd-Frank will be repealed in full. Senate and House Republicans introduced such bills, but they have never been brought up for floor votes.
But there has also been relatively little resistance from Democrats in defense of Dodd-Frank. Federal agencies have been busy writing regulations to put the law into effect, but those efforts have not generated the widespread public debate that occurred when the legislation was debated in Congress. Without someone on the Democratic side actively fighting on its behalf, Dodd-Frank, for the moment at least, has been left without a champion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Many Republican politicians say the law has hurt the economy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO ANZUONI/REUTERS) (B1)
 Republican candidates for president have repeatedly described the law as a symbol of government overreach that is killing jobs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WIN MCNAMEE/GETTY IMAGES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CREDIT REGULATION (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); JOB CREATION (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); HEALTH CARE LAW (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); US LABOR DAY (60%); DEBIT CARDS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARNEY FRANK (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



913 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Urges No Further Fed Stimulus

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
Even though the financial markets have been counting on the Federal Reserve to take action, Republican Congressional leadership sent a letter to the Federal Reserve chairman on Tuesday evening urging it not to engage in further stimulus.
The letter was sent in the midst of a two-day meeting in which Fed officials are widely expected to undertake policies to lower long-term interest rates. That move would be intended to loosen up credit in hopes of promoting growth. The meeting ends Wednesday, and the Fed is expected to release a statement Wednesday at 2:15 p.m.
''We have serious concerns that further intervention by the Federal Reserve could exacerbate current problems or further harm the U.S. economy,'' said the letter, signed by four of the top Republicans in Congress: Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Senate Republican leader; Jon Kyl of Arizona, the Senate Republican whip; House Speaker John Boehner of Ohio and House Majority Leader Eric Cantor of Virginia. 
The Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, has not said further stimulus was in the works, but economists and analysts have repeatedly asserted that they believe the central bank will announce more easing.
''I just don't think the Fed will sit idly as momentum fizzles in this recovery,'' said Dana Saporta, a United States economist at Credit Suisse.
Minutes from the Fed's latest meeting revealed sharp dissent within the group of policy makers, so further stimulus is not necessarily a sure bet.
As the Republican letter notes, economists are divided on how much the move would help the stalled recovery. The Fed, after all, has tried several rounds of monetary stimulus in the last four years.
Republican Congressional leaders expressed not only skepticism that further easing would improve the recovery, but also concerns that such actions might be damaging.
''Such steps may erode the already weakened U.S. dollar or promote more borrowing by overleveraged consumers,'' the letter from Republicans said.
Many economists, however, are unconvinced by these risks and argue that a weakened dollar would be good for the country because it would make American exports more attractive.
With unemployment at 9.1 percent and Congress unable to agree on fiscal policies that might encourage job creation, many advisers have been calling on the Fed to continue using whatever ammunition it has left.
The Federal Reserve is an independent body whose decisions do not have to be ratified by the president or Congress, and efforts to influence monetary policy are discouraged to maintain its credibility.
''Even if I agreed'' with the Republican letter, Tony Fratto, a former adviser to President George W. Bush, wrote in a Twitter post, ''I'd still disagree with the effort to put public political pressure on Bernanke.''
Over the years, there have been many efforts by members of both parties, from both the White House and Congress, to influence Fed policies, according to Allan H. Meltzer, a political economy historian at Carnegie Mellon.
Less than a year ago Michele Bachmann, a Minnesota congresswoman who is running as a Republican presidential candidate, sent a letter to Mr. Bernanke urging him to refrain from the last round of stimulus, which the Fed ultimately decided to do.
In recent months other Republican presidential candidates have stepped up their attacks on Fed policy, with Rick Perry, the governor of Texas, calling further easing ''treasonous.''
Fed critics have said they are merely trying to counter pressure from Democrats for the Fed to do more.
''This is the most politicized Fed we've ever had,'' Mr. Meltzer said. ''They've been doing the Treasury's work for quite some time, buying things like Treasuries and bonds. It's no surprise that there's political pressure coming from the other direction.''
The Federal Reserve was meant to be independent so that it would be shielded from short-term political interests, and Fed officials have repeatedly said they are unmoved by external political pressures. A Fed spokeswoman acknowledged receiving the letter on Tuesday evening but she declined to comment further.
Appearing to cave to political interests -- on the left or the right -- could compromise the Fed's authority and jolt markets even more than a popular or unpopular policy decision.
If anything, Federal Reserve members seem to be trying show their ability to exert their own influence. Traditionally, Fed officials have refrained from commenting on fiscal policy except in the vaguest of terms, but in an August speech Mr. Bernanke called on Congress to avoid steep spending cuts in the near future. He also gave specific recommendations for fiscal measures to promote long-term growth.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben Bernanke, the chairman of the Fed, which is expected to lower long-term rates. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); JOB CREATION (60%); INTEREST RATES (56%); EXPORT TRADE (50%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (78%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); ERIC CANTOR (58%); JON KYL (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



914 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: A Tax Others Embrace, U.S. Opposes

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

 BODY:
President Obama's proposal for a new tax on millionaires echoes a call in many countries struggling with budget deficits and overwhelming debts to make the wealthy pay more.
Britain and France have imposed new taxes on their highest earners -- and Italy, Spain, Greece and Japan are considering similar moves, despite some protests.
Whether the taxes on the rich in Europe raise enough money to close much of their budget shortfalls, they are being promoted as a step toward economic fairness at a time when governments are cutting spending on social programs like pensions, health care and education. Mr. Obama -- whose millionaire's tax would probably raise a modest amount of revenue over the next 10 years by collecting more from several hundred thousand Americans -- has also framed his plan as a way to make the system more equitable. 
Specifically, the proposal would counteract decades of tax reductions for most Americans that have given the wealthy the most benefit.
But the idea being embraced by much of the world faces strong opposition in the United States from Republicans and other conservatives who say it would harm the economy and cost jobs.
''Other countries explicitly use the tax system to redistribute resources in society,'' said Reuven S. Avi-Yonah, a professor at the University of Michigan and expert in international tax law. ''But going all the way back to no taxation without representation, Americans have had a mistrust of government. So we tolerate a greater inequality in terms of wealth. There is more opposition to tax increases, even when rates are low. And there is less confidence that government will use the money wisely.''
Still, there are some indications that Americans may be more open to tax increases on the affluent. One recent poll by The Associated Press and CNBC found that Americans feel they are less likely to become millionaires, making them more willing to embrace a tax on that group.
The initiative also echoes a populist chord sounded by Warren E. Buffett, the billionaire investor who has publicly complained that the American tax system allows him and some other wealthy individuals to pay a lower percentage of their income in federal taxes than their secretaries do.
Whether a higher tax rate would stifle business and economic growth continues to be debated. Britain raised its top tax rate to 50 percent after the 2008 financial crisis, and a number of economists and others have said that it inhibited investment and hiring. They are asking that the issue be reconsidered if the additional money generated proves less than projected.
Spain, Greece and Italy have less room to maneuver. They are under external pressure to raise tax rates and reduce spending to help meet targets for debts and deficits imposed on all members of the euro zone. To continue to raise money in the international financial markets, these countries have taken a number of steps painful for their citizens. Adding a 3 percent ''solidarity tax'' on the wealthy, as Italy is considering, reminds the voters that everyone is sharing the pain.
Until the recent financial crisis and worldwide economic downturn, individual tax rates had fallen substantially in most developed countries over several decades. In 1980, the top federal rate on Americans was 70 percent, and most European countries were above 60 percent. Today most European countries have rates below 50 percent. The United States has a top rate of 35 percent, but many wealthy Americans pay considerably less because their earnings are derived from dividends or capital gains, which are taxed at no more than 15 percent.
As a result, the effective federal tax rate, including payroll taxes, for the wealthiest 0.01 percent of earners fell to 31.5 percent in 2005, from 42.9 percent in 1979, according to data from the Congressional Budget Office. Over the same time, effective rates for taxpayers in the center of the range fell to 14.2 percent, a decrease of just 4 percentage points.
Mr. Buffett said he paid 17.4 percent of his income in federal income and payroll taxes last year. His secretary and the 19 other employees in his office paid an average of 36 percent, he said.
For all the opposition, what the president is proposing would affect a small group. About 450,000 of the 144 million returns filed last year had taxable income over $1 million, the administration said. The ''Buffett Rule,'' as the administration calls it, would affect only the subset with a lower effective tax rate than middle-class families. Mr. Obama has not said what rate he would consider appropriate or how much revenue it would raise.
Recent Treasury Department data gives a more detailed look at the group of taxpayers the administration is aiming at. In 2009, 238,000 households filed returns with adjusted gross incomes of at least $1 million. One-quarter of them paid an effective federal income tax rate of less than 15 percent, the data shows, and 1,470 paid no federal income tax at all.
''It's a guiding principle,'' said Jason Furman, principal deputy director of the National Economic Council. ''The president believes that middle-class families shouldn't pay higher taxes than households making over a million dollars annually.''
Though the group is small, the dollars are large. For the top 400 taxpayers, the effective federal income tax rate has dropped from 29 percent in 1993 to 18 percent in 2008. The average adjusted gross income of those 400 households was $271 million. By comparison, households with $50,000 to $75,000 in income paid an effective rate of 15 percent, according to the Congressional Budget Office.
House Speaker John Boehner, Republican of Ohio, dismissed the proposal as a politically incendiary attempt to rally Mr. Obama's core voters, and predicted it would hurt the limping economy and suppress hiring.
Recent history offers little evidence to support the contention that higher taxes undermine economic growth: employment and economic growth were far weaker after the Bush tax cuts of 2001 and 2004 than they were under the higher rates of the Clinton administration. But Curtis Dubay, a senior policy analyst at the conservative Heritage Foundation, said that job growth in the Clinton and Bush administrations followed reductions in capital gains taxes.
That is what worries Mr. Dubay. The proposal could mean higher taxes on capital gains for the wealthy. ''And that's where investment and hiring starts,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Tax Divide: The rich and poor pay vastly different percentages of their income in taxes.: Adjusted gross income: TAX YEAR 2008
Adjusted gross income: TAX YEAR 2009 (Sources: IRS via the Tax Policy Center (tax year 2008)
 U.S. Department of Treasury (tax year 2009)) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); AFFLUENT MARKET (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); EURO ZONE (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); MONETARY UNIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (74%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); SPAIN (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); JAPAN (92%); GREECE (90%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



915 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: The Logic of Cutting Payroll Taxes

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: The jobs produced by a payroll tax cut may be small, but it's well worth doing, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
 
Payroll taxes are by no means the only thing that stops people from working, but one of President Obama's payroll tax cut proposals could nonetheless create a million or more jobs.
Last week I estimated that the president's proposal to cut the employer portion of the payroll tax by 3.1 percentage points could raise employment by more than a million, and maybe as much as three million.
You might (as some readers wrote to me) think that a payroll tax cut is not, by itself, a good reason for employers to hire, and on that basis conclude that my estimate is way off.
I agree that jobs are not created by payroll tax cuts alone, and my estimate reflects that fact. About 131 million adults are working now, and 109 million adults are not working. If I'm right that the payroll tax cut would raise employment by one million to three million, that means that 106 million to 108 million adults would still not be working despite the payroll tax cut.

The chart below illustrates the results for the case that the payroll tax cut raises employment by exactly two million.
In other words, my estimate is that at least 97 percent of people not working would still not be working regardless of the payroll tax cut. That's because, as you might deduce, payroll taxes are only one factor among many that determine how many people are employed. Nevertheless, raising employment by one million to three million would be an accomplishment for the president, and one that would be visible in the national statistics.
By the same logic, if someone were to propose raising the payroll tax by 3.1 percentage points, I would expect employment to be reduced by one million to three million. Again, the payroll tax is only one of many factors affecting hiring decisions, which is why my estimate of a payroll tax increase implies that more than 97 percent of workers would continue to work despite the increase.
Indeed, we all know people who would continue to work even if the payroll tax were raised by 30 percentage points, let alone three. We also know people who would not work even if taxes were eliminated completely.
But the fact that more than 100 million people are not employed, and more than 100 million people are employed, suggests that there could well be a million people (or two million, or three million) who are near the fence. For that small fraction of the population, there are almost as many things pushing toward making them employed as making them unemployed; a payroll tax cut could tip the balance.
For hundreds of millions of others, the balance is tilted too far for a payroll tax cut to make a difference. But while economists can debate the exact numbers, few of us can conclude that a small tax cut has no effect. Rather, a small tax cut should be expected to have a small effect -- and at this point one worth seeking.

        
How Payroll Tax Cuts Can Create Jobs
        
Are We About to Repeat the Mistakes of 1937?
        
Who Lost Work During the Great Recession?
        
Local and National Stimulus
        
More Evidence That Supply Matters

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); CORPORATE TAX (90%); STATISTICS (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%) Casey B. Mulligan; Daily Economist; employment; Payroll Tax; Taxation; Unemployment; Labor and Jobs; United States Economy; Today's Economist

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011



916 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 276 words

HEADLINE: CRT Capital Hires Citadel Team

BYLINE: AZAM AHMED


HIGHLIGHT: A trading and sales group from the mortgage-backed securities unit will join CRT Capital, a Connecticut-based broker dealer, in the latest departure following Citadel's decision last month to give up its investment banking practice. 

 BODY:
Another team is departing the securities unit at Kenneth C. Griffin's hedge fund giant, Citadel.
A trading and sales group from the mortgage-backed securities unit will join CRT Capital, a Connecticut-based broker dealer, in the latest departure following Citadel's decision last month to give up its investment banking practice.
Citadel started its banking unit in late 2008, hoping to capitalize on the weakness of investment banks that resulted from the financial crisis. The firm poached senior bankers from Wall Street.
 But early on, the business was plagued by high-level departures. In 2009, the investment banks came roaring back, which also stymied business opportunities for the Citadel unit. The hedge fund struggled to land major deals - and to retain talent. Finally, this year, Mr. Griffin put the banking unit as well as his equity research division up for sale. 
The efforts at Citadel Securities have not all been a bust, however. It remains a major player in the options markets.
The departing team was lead by Patrick Russell and Igor Vidrevich, who had joined Citadel from Morgan Stanley. Anthony Roberto will also join CRT as a managing director. Last month, Wells Fargo picked up 25 bankers from Citadel. 
"We are pleased to welcome such an experienced and talented team of sales and trading professionals to our existing Securitized Products group," Jeffry Mullins, CRT's co-head of securitized products, said in a statement. "Their strong client relationships and superior execution experience will be valuable as we continue to grow our business."

        
Wells Fargo Brings Citadel's Investment Banking Unit Aboard
        
The Week That Was, in Verse

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); HEDGE FUNDS (91%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); SECURITIZATION (78%); EQUITY RESEARCH (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (70%) Citadel; CRT Capital; Kenneth Griffin; Wells Fargo &; Hiring and Promotion; Hedge Funds; Revolving Door

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (93%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CITADEL (94%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (93%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



917 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 144 words

HEADLINE: New Developments in the Political Business Cycle

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: What's bad for America is good for them. 

 BODY:
There's a well-established line of work in economics on the political business cycle, starting with a paper by my original mentor Bill Nordhaus (pdf). The basic idea was that since voters tend to have short memories, it pays for a government to reflate the economy centering on the proposition that government have an incentive to reflate the economy in the period leading up to an election, even if this imposes costs that will have to be paid later. Concern about this issue is one reason for central bank independence.
But now there's a new wrinkle. As Stan Collender says, it's hard to see the GOP letter threatening Ben Bernanke if he does anything to help the economy as anything but an attempt to invert the political business cycle, pressuring the central bank to ensure a weak economy in the year before the election.
Got to give the GOP points for innovation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



918 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(T Magazine)

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE; culture

LENGTH: 1616 words

HEADLINE: A Model Professor

BYLINE: STEPHEN HEYMAN


HIGHLIGHT: To study fashion models, the sociologist Ashley Mears actually became one. 

 BODY:
At a time when tree climbing and the "Lord of the Rings" language Elvish are both taught at the university level, who could argue that the world of fashion modeling is not also worthy of academic scrutiny? Ashley Mears, a young assistant professor of sociology at Boston University, just came out with her first book, "Pricing Beauty" (University of California, $27), which succeeds at dissecting the multibillion-dollar global modeling industry not only through traditional methods like interviews and data analysis, but also by resorting to a more gonzo means of academic inquiry. To study models, Mears actually became one.
Obviously, not just any researcher can infiltrate the modeling business in New York and London, appear in magazine editorials and prowl the catwalk during Fashion Week - all of which Mears accomplished while earning her doctorate at New York University. One must also be beautiful. Or - to make a distinction that's relevant to Mears's work - one must possess those qualities that the modeling industry considers valuable at the moment. "I don't like to say I study fashion models," said Mears, who met up with The Moment last month to talk about her new book. "Rather, I study questions of how cultural value gets translated into economic values." The full interview transcript is after the jump. 
Q.
I imagine people are very interested in your dual role here. You're a model a sociologist.
A.
It's not so much about the work as it is about me, which I never thought was all that interesting. But to be in academia and to be thought of as, like, model sociologist, or model sociologist - which is how some people have referred to me in blog postings before - it's kind of the kiss of death for an academic.
Did you encounter any members of the academic community who treated you with a little bit of skepticism?
Yes, but not so blatantly. I heard whispers of rumors that maybe my work or maybe I wasn't being taken as seriously because of my associations with fashion.
In the book, the way you explain it, you chose modeling as a case study almost by accident. A model scout approached you in a Manhattan Starbucks.
Right. I modeled when I was younger, in Atlanta. I was 16 when I did my first job. It was just stuff at the mall. Then I went into the small catalog market. In the summers, I took trips. I went to Milan. I went to Osaka, Japan. When I graduated, I went to Hong Kong. I stayed in Asia for a year. And then, when I got into grad school at N.Y.U., I quit because at that point I was just about 23. Which is old. As a model, you're finished. But anyway, at the moment when this person found me in a Starbucks, I was looking for a research site because I wanted to take a course in ethnography at N.Y.U.
In sociology, is there a tradition of somewhat covertly assuming the role of the type of people you're studying?
Yes! This is like the highest bar of ethnography that one can achieve. We see it in all kinds of fields. Largely in industrial manufacturing in the American factory work setting. Michael Burawoy does that kind of work, where he would actually go and be a worker in the factory. One of the people that I was reading when I was doing this is Loic Wacquant. For his dissertation, he joined a boxing gym on the south side of Chicago. So again, it's this moment of, like, turning your body into an object of research as well.
At one point in the book, you admit to almost being sucked into modeling and abandoning your graduate studies.
I started doing well. "Well," according to the standards in the industry. Objectively, I wasn't making any money. But I booked a couple of jobs for a couple of high-status designers. And I did a couple of shows at Fashion Week in New York. And I started hearing this buzz about me. It's really seductive. It's not something that's unique to me. I found out in interviews, when I spoke to women and men who were doing it, that for the most part it's really unrewarding, especially financially, and it has a lot of costs associated with it.
You were 25?
Yes.
You were telling people that you were 25?
No. People would chat with you at castings and I would explain that I was a first-year or second-year at N.Y.U. and people would assume I was a sophomore or a freshman, that I was 19 or 20. Although, when people would ask I would follow what my agents had instructed me to do, which was to low-ball my age by about five years.
And you wouldn't be questioned?
No. No one checks your ID. Although, sometimes, you would get stumped when people would be like, "Why are your cultural references, like, '80s synth-pop?" But yeah, I would lie to everyone about my age. That's ubiquitous with women.
What things were you being told when all this "buzz" surrounded you?
The agents on the phone were saying really appealing things. "You don't know how big this is!" "You're the breakout girl of the season!" My calendar was getting full of "options." And this is a really deceptive thing in the industry and a pretty painful thing, too. As a way to mitigate models' busy schedules, clients are able to put models on options, which are like options for financial assets, where it gives you the right but not the obligation to buy it.
There's one point in the book when you quote a booking agent who attributes the prevailing aesthetic of editorial models - skinny, tall, often unfeminine - to the undue influence that gay men have over the fashion industry. Do you think there's anything to this? 
At the editorial end of the modeling industry, it is a pretty insular and closed-off world. It is a world in which there's a higher proportion of gay men - and women - than in other fields of work. I don't think, however, there's a straight causal arrow that you can draw from that - that gay men will choose a model that looks a certain way necessarily. That was one theory put forth by a booker.
But why is there this perceived disconnect between traditional beauty and the type of look that is coveted on the runway?
If you walk into an agency, you see the models' cards along the wall. They're often divided into these different boards, sometimes not obviously. But most agents will be able to see what's the editorial end and what's the commercial end. The commercial end are models that bring in the bread-and-butter income of an agency: the catalog stuff, the fittings, the trunk shows at the mall. The kinds of jobs that are intended to sell things, to move merchandise. They have to resonate with a mass audience. The editorial end is the elite end, it's by far the more prestigious end, it's where a fashion agency gets all of its symbolic status or cultural prestige. They don't make nearly as much money unless they get picked up to do a mega-campaign, like a Kate Moss for instance. And they look really strange. They don't resonate with a mass audience, and that's the point. They're not intended to. That's kind of a general principle that we take from the art world. The more people a specific piece of art is intended to make sense to, the less valuable on the whole it is. Something that resonates with high prestige, elite insiders, the Anna Wintours of the universe - it's like a wink and a nod to their own competencies just to get it.
Where does a specific kind of preference come from? Why is one look ascendant as opposed to another?
It can move, and it does. One chapter of the book is about the "Size-Zero Aesthetic," where the skinny body comes from. And after I sent the book out to my publisher, there were all these busty models coming out on the catwalk. And these curvaceous Lara Stone types are now in. But they'll fall out again and something else will come in.
But a lot of that - the curvy models - that's more the result of tokenism, right? It's distinct from a kind of shift in the baseline preference, which is for extraordinarily thin and tall white women.
Right. The baseline never changes.
So why is that?
I argue it's class. The distinction between editorial and commercial fashion ultimately is a class distinction. If you look at a historical trajectory of what, in Western society, elite culture values, it's this prized aesthetic for women with extremely thin, taut, controlled bodies. A corpulent body, a body with rolls and with flesh, is a body that signals looseness, sexual availability, and is antithetical to a kind of "elite" body. You can see this in strip clubs as well. There's some ethnographic work that shows that strip clubs that cater to higher-class audiences have thinner women, and whiter women. You see it reproduce in all kinds of different settings. The ways that things change are a bit harder to explain. Why curves or why Asian or why blue eyes this season and not the next?
This project must have been emotionally taxing. Here you are, a doctoral candidate, and you're subjecting yourself to all these kinds of superficial judgments.
It's strange because you don't think you're going to get judged so much on your appearance once you start grad school. I mean, you're expected to be judged on the quality of your thinking, not your outfits. It was always stressful. But that switch wasn't so consciously taxing. For me, it was the logistics of balancing it all. When you're modeling, you have the heavy portfolio plus the shoes. Plus you have the schoolbooks and you're not supposed to walk into a casting with your giant Jansport backpack. But then you don't want to go into seminar wearing skintight jeans and heels because that's not the right signal you want to be giving to your potential committee members or dissertation chair.

        
Laugh Lines | Revisiting William Steig
        
Richard Prince's Library Privileges
        
Made in Germany
        
Reading 'Lolita.' Forgetting Tehran.
        
Bookshelf

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SOCIOLOGY (91%); FASHION & APPAREL (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); FASHION SHOWS (77%); CASE STUDIES (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); FASHION DESIGNERS (72%); TRANSCRIPTS (70%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (62%) Ashley Mears; Books; ehtnography; Loic Wacquant; Michael Burawoy; models; New York University; sociology; Culture; Women's Fashion

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); OSAKA, JAPAN (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); HONG KONG (69%); ASIA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



919 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: Unheeded Tornado Warnings Just One Lesson from Joplin

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: The high death count among people who sought shelter from the Joplin, Mo., tornado implies that unheeded warnings were just one factor leading to the high death toll. 

 BODY:
The National Weather Service published a detailed and valuable report yesterday examining factors contributing to the extraordinary loss of life in Joplin, Mo., after a great swath of the community was shredded by a tornado at the top of the enhanced Fujita scale of destructiveness.
I sought an appraisal of the report, and the catastrophe, from two disaster economists who've become vital sources on losses from extreme storms, Kevin M. Simmons of Austin College and Daniel Sutter of Troy University. Along with their other work, they are the authors of a valuable resource, "Economic and Societal Impacts of Tornadoes."
Their assessment differs somewhat from news accounts and news releases focused on disregarded warnings. They note, for example, that when Joplin's horrific death count is assessed as "fatalities per number of buildings damaged or destroyed" the death rate is not markedly different than the average losses in twisters at the top of the scale in recent decades. That means that many people who did the right thing, seeking shelter indoors, were simply terribly unlucky. The authors discuss challenges in issuing warnings for rare, but devastating, events, too. But it's important to consider all the factors that put so many people in harm's way.
Here's the analysis from Simmons and Sutter (I added bold face highlights): 
The death toll from the Joplin tornado now exceeds 160 souls making it the largest single tornado event since records were kept. Explaining such a high fatality rate is a challenge and one of the issues being studied is the public response to the warnings given by the National Weather Service.
One of the research thrusts of our work on tornadoes has been to examine the effect of false alarms on casualties. While many believe in a "cry wolf" effect that occurs when people tune out warnings of many types, to actually chronicle this effect for natural hazards is difficult. Our study uses a false alarm rate for tornadoes as a control variable in a model to estimate casualties and we find that an increase in the false alarm rate does translate to higher casualties. But we cannot use an econometric model to dissect the phenomenon beyond simply noting that a significant relationship exists between the false alarm rate and increased casualties. Our model cannot examine the thought process that occurs when residents are faced with a decision about whether or not they should take cover or ignore the warning. Also, it should be noted that our result uses tornadoes of the last 25 years and no event comes close to having the number of fatalities that were experienced in Joplin on May 22.
The National Weather Service has conducted an after-event assessment of the Joplin tornado which includes interviews with people that experienced and survived this tragic event. Their responses shed some light onto those decision processes that affected their decisions on that fateful day. First of all the response that struck us was the apparent apathy that respondents had concerning tornadoes prior to May 22. Generally, people felt that deadly tornadoes just didn't happen in that part of Missouri.
Both of us were living in Oklahoma City in 1999 when that outbreak occurred. Residents of Oklahoma were very acquainted with deadly tornadoes but many had a similar feeling that allowed them to dismiss warnings. But May 3, 1999 changed those attitudes dramatically. Which leads to the first observation: Perception of risk is based on experience.
Secondly, for some residents there was confusion on the meaning of the warnings. Sirens in Joplin are used for several possible threats and the initial use of the sirens did not convince residents that they were intended for a tornado warning. Additionally, the tornado was "rain wrapped" which makes visual confirmation difficult. Confirmation of a threat is an important step in granting it credibility. This leads to our second observation: Understanding and confirming the warning is crucial to giving it credibility.
But it needs to said without qualification that the tornado in Joplin was a well warned event. Bad luck plays a role as much as anything. The deadliest part of the track occurred in a densely populated area. A change in the track of a few miles either way would have made a big difference.
A substantial number of fatalities occurred in businesses. According to information obtained from the Joplin emergency manager, 24 fatalities occurred in traditional businesses (e.g., Home Depot, Pizza Hut, Wal-Mart), and 21 and 15 fatalities occurred at Greenbriar Nursing Home and St. John's Hospital respectively. This is highly unusual; between 1985 and 2010, only 4 percent of tornado fatalities occurred in businesses. Over the decade 2001 to 2010, there were 17 deaths at businesses in the entire U. S. It is unclear if the business death toll represents some type of special vulnerability (did employees fail to take safety precautions?) or a consequence of many businesses like the Home Depot on Range Line Road being totally obliterated, rendering normal safety precautions ineffective. Either way, the fatalities in businesses represent an unusual vulnerability.
The fatality total in Joplin in one way is not out of line with other EF-5 tornadoes, when you consider fatalities per building damaged or destroyed. In EF-5 tornadoes between 1997 and 2010, a total of 8,425 buildings were damaged or destroyed, and 110 fatalities occurred in buildings in these tornadoes. In Joplin an estimated 7,500 housing units and 500 businesses were damaged or destroyed, and according to the Storm Prediction Center, 133 fatalities occurred in buildings. These numbers of buildings damaged or destroyed are estimates and could easily be in error. But the fatality rate in Joplin, one per 60 buildings damaged or destroyed, is not out of line with the earlier EF-5 tornadoes, of one per 75 buildings. The difference could easily be due to reporting or classifying of buildings, or differences in the exact proportion of damaged versus destroyed. The death toll in Joplin was so high in large part because so many buildings were damaged or destroyed. This casts doubt on whether a poor warning response relative to other tornadoes was responsible for the death toll.
Here's the radar loop from that terrible hour:
12:43 p.m. | Postscript |
I encourage anyone interested in improving responsiveness to tornado warnings and other efforts to limit losses from rare, but potent natural hazards to review the research of Dennis S. Mileti, a professor emeritus at the University of Colorado long focused on risk, communication and behavior. He's summarized his findings beautifully in "Public Response to Disaster Warnings." Please pass that link around.
Mike Smith, a blogging meteorologist and author of "Warnings: The True Story of How Science Tamed the Weather," takes issue with the notion that this was a "well warned" event. I've posted his full reaction, including a map from the National Weather Service report, as a standalone document.

        
Demography, Design, Atom Bombs and Tornado Deaths
        
Killer Tornadoes, Horrible and Still Unknowable
        
On Quake History and Climate Warnings
        
A Hidden Factor Behind Losses in Texas Fires
        
Tornado Losses in 2011 Worst Since 1950

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WEATHER (91%); TORNADOES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WRITERS (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); MODELING & SIMULATION (75%) communication; disasters; risk; risk reduction; Tornadoes; warnings; Disasters and Emergencies; Joplin (Mo); National Weather Service; Weather

ORGANIZATION: National Weather Service; Weather

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



920 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: In India, Nurturing the Next Generation of Entrepreneurs

BYLINE: NIDA NAJAR


HIGHLIGHT: Although famous for its software industry, India hasn't been a conducive environment for start-ups. Now some angel investors are starting to look for innovators to finance. 

 BODY:
NEW DELHI - Teacups in hand and butter biscuits within reach, a handful of local technology titans debated the future of some young Indian entrepreneurs on a summer Saturday. After grilling five teams over several hours, the group, the Indian Angel Network, put two promising start-ups on the short list for potential financing.
"The Angel Network is really trying to help breed innovation," said Padmaja Ruparel, the president of the organization. "Our efforts are really going into driving the economic engine of India."
Even though India is famous for its software industry, it hasn't been a conducive environment for up-and-coming technology companies. Unlike in Silicon Valley, start-ups here cannot easily access capital, tap into a network of serial entrepreneurs or hone their ideas through incubators.
Wealthy individuals and organizations like Indian Angel Network are increasingly filling the void, providing initial capital to young companies with strong prospects.
It's a small but growing class. In the last five years, angel investors put less than $200 million in start-ups, based on data from Venture Intelligence, a research firm in Mumbai. In the United States, angel investment topped $20 billion in 2010 alone, according to the Center for Venture Research.
Angel investing is a high-risk, high-reward game. Since start-ups often fail before they ever make any money, the investors, who typically invest less than $1 million, are betting that a few will take off - earning returns as much as 10 times their original outlay. In India, they are basically hoping to find another Nandan Nilekani, the co-founder of the software exporter Infosys, or the next Azim Premji, the billionaire chairman of Wipro, one of the world's largest technology service companies.
Entrepreneurs in India have faced even tougher odds. Until 1991, the country had a socialist economic policy, and most industries were dominated by state-owned firms or a handful of large business conglomerates like the Tata and Birla Groups.
Back then, upstart projects often were stalled by bureaucratic hurdles. Saurabh Srivastava, the chairman of the India Angel Network, who founded the software company IIS Infotech in 1989, said he had to wait two and a half years to get permission from the government to start his company.
"For first-generation entrepreneurs, it was a monopoly; anyone who had an alliance got ahead," said Mr. Srivastava, who is considered one of the pioneers of India's modern technology industry.
Now, established entrepreneurs and business executives like Mr. Srivastava are looking to ease the burden for the next generation. The Indian Angel Network, for example, has started an incubator where members mentor young entrepreneurs. It also set up "boot camps," inviting 10 individuals or teams to give three-minute pitches in different cities across the country, to practice for future fund-raising efforts.
Analysts say it is unclear whether angel investing will become as enmeshed in India's business culture as it is in Silicon Valley, or whether it will crumble if early investors suffer too many losses. While conditions have improved significantly for India's entrepreneurs, the entrepreneurs still face numerous challenges, including a weak infrastructure and a poor education system.
Many of these new investors are "the first wave of people who kind of made money in their first venture and sold off probably 10 years back," said Arun Natarajan, chief executive of Venture Intelligence. "Time will tell what will happen when a real downturn arrives. Will some of these guys stick to safer investments?"
The Indian Angel Network understands the potential pitfalls. Founded in 2006, the group counts the outsourcing giant Raman Roy; Harish Mehta, the founder of an engineering design services firm; and Rajan Anandan, the managing director of Google India, among its 175 members. Mr. Anandan spent the majority of his career working for McKinsey & Company and Dell in the United States, joining the India Angel Network in 2006 after he returned to his home country.
"It's very fulfilling to work with entrepreneurs," said Mr. Anandan, who also invests in start-ups on his own. "We sit on the boards of the companies. We are deeply involved."
To vet investments, the group meets most Saturdays in boardrooms across the country. They listen to 20-minute pitches from young entrepreneurs based in India and abroad. After they reach consensus on a start-up, they solicit the larger membership for money.
In the last five years, the group has made 25 investments, notching gains in Druva, a real-time data backup software company. Another in its portfolio, Hungry Zone, a restaurant reservation site in Bangalore, was bought by the British company Just-Eat.
They put candidates through the wringer. The organization hears more than 200 pitches a year, but finances only a handful. At a recent meeting, the first presenters were graduates of IIT Roorkee, a prestigious engineering school in the country. Two young men described their idea to develop a virtual learning company for recent graduates to make them more attractive to multinationals with Indian operations.
Their pitch presented the idea as filling an unmet need in the country. But 20 minutes into their PowerPoint presentation on the hardships faced by new graduates, the judges grew restless.
"In the interests of time, can you move towards a solution?" asked Vishal Lalani, who runs a dashboard instruments manufacturing company.
Later in the day, the group voted down the pitch, citing doubts that the idea would really address the problem.
"We're not looking at it as cutting checks," said Pradeep Gupta, the chairman of the specialty media house CyberMedia and a member of Indian Angel Network. "We should be able to add value to the company. We should be able to add value to India."

        
In Silicon Valley, a Culture Clash Sullies a Romance
        
Summers Joins Andreessen Horowitz

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (94%); VENTURE CAPITAL (91%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); STARTUPS (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (70%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (69%); FUNDRAISING (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Azim Premji; CyberMedia; Druva; Google India; Harish Mehta; Hungry Zone; IIS Infotech; India; Indian Angel Network; Infosys Technologies; Just-Eat; Nandan Nilekani; Pradeep Gupta; Rajan Anandan; Raman Roy; Start-ups; Wipro; Premji, Azim H; Entrepreneurship; Venture Capital; Infosys Technologies Ltd; Wipro Ltd; Wipro Ltd|WIT|NYSE; Technology

COMPANY: INFOSYS LTD (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Infosys Technologies Ltd; Wipro Ltd

TICKER: INFY (PAR) (53%); INFY (NYSE) (53%); INFY (NSE) (53%) Wipro Ltd; WIT; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (53%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: Premji, Azim H

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (89%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); MUMBAI, INDIA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%) India

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



921 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Poll Finds Support Among Small Businesses for Tougher Fuel Economy Standards

BYLINE: JIM MOTAVALLI


HIGHLIGHT: Of more than 1,200 business owners polled, 80 percent would support a stricter fuel-economy standard than the one put forward in July by the White House. 

 BODY:
Findings from a new poll contradict the prevailing wisdom that small-business owners are focused on the twin burdens of regulation and high taxes. Owners are instead more concerned about economic uncertainty and higher costs, including expensive fuel. 
According to the online poll of 1,257 small-business owners, commissioned by the Small Business Majority, an advocacy organization that is financed by foundation grants but not composed of dues-paying members, 87 percent of respondents support federal action to increase car and truck fuel efficiency. And 80 percent would have supported a Corporate Average Fuel Economy standard of 60 miles per gallon by the year 2025, a stance shared by many environmental groups but opposed by automakers. The actual federal target for 2025, announced last July after negotiations with automakers, is 54.5 m.p.g.
In the poll released Tuesday, 13 percent of respondents said that government regulation was the largest hurdle for small businesses, while 23 percent cited taxes. Meanwhile, 71 percent said that American auto companies should innovate more, and 73 percent said the federal government should be more forceful in seeking that innovation.
A similar majority, 76 percent, offered support for Environmental Protection Agency regulation of carbon emissions. The Obama Administration delayed action on that front earlier this month, postponing the issuance of rules for greenhouse-gas emissions from power plants and other sources. 
Some 12 percent of small-business owners in the poll, conducted by Greenberg Quinlan Rosner Research, said they had bought hybrid, electric or alternative-fuel vehicles, and 47 percent of those who responded that they did not own such a vehicle said they'd be "willing" to do so.
John Arensmeyer, the founder of Small Business Majority, noted in a telephone interview that owners "are facing both reduced sales and increased costs." That is "not a good combination," he added. "Tougher fuel economy standards mean lower gas costs for the fleets businesses operate."
In its report, Small Business Majority highlighted the feedback of Jonathan Tobias, owner of Michigan Green Cabs in Ann Arbor, Mich. "If I could give drivers 60 m.p.g. cars, they'd be lining up to work for me, since they'd net more pay than they would elsewhere," he said. 
Mr. Arensmeyer cited another poll respondent who said that automakers could be delivering cars that achieve 100 m.p.g. "What they're saying is that good American ingenuity will prevail with the right incentives," Mr. Arensmeyer said.
But Gloria Bergquist, a vice president at the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, which represents the interests of 12 major automakers, wrote in an e-mail that manufacturers must balance fuel economy with utility.
"We all want greater fuel efficiency, but few people want smaller, lighter, less powerful vehicles, and this may be especially the case when a small-business owner depends on a vehicle for his livelihood," she said. "So the challenge is to increase fuel efficiency while preserving vehicle utility, cargo and passenger room and towing ability."

        
On Fuel Efficiency, Environmental Groups May Urge California to Go It Alone
        
Obama Announces Fuel Rules for Heavy Vehicles
        
Automakers React to 54.5 M.P.G.
        
Wheelies: The Topped-Up Edition
        
Criticism of Looming Fuel-Economy Standard Hits the Airwaves

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (93%); POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (92%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (87%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BIOFUELS (77%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); HYBRID VEHICLES (75%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (70%); INTERVIEWS (68%); POWER PLANTS (65%); FOUNDATIONS (56%) Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers; CAFE standards; E.P.A.; Automobiles; Fuel Efficiency; Small Business; Environmental Protection Agency; Industry News

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%) Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers; Environmental Protection Agency

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



922 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: Musicals Festival Diary: Money Worries

BYLINE: DONNA LYNNE CHAMPLIN


HIGHLIGHT: In a room packed with actors for the New York Musical Theater Festival's production of "Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice, a Musical," the cast goes through the painstaking task of pre-rehearsal paperwork. 

 BODY:
Rehearsal room No. 3 is packed with old and new faces. Some I recognize from the concert version of "Pride and Prejudice" in 2008 and others from just having been in this business for almost 20 years. Before we can officially begin, the union actors always have an Actors' Equity Association meeting to discuss insurance, contracts, breaks, etc., while all non-Equity members wait outside the room. This meeting is also when every unattached actress vainly looks at all the men around the table thinking "Gay, gay, married, gay, gay, gay, girlfriend, gay, gay straight and single Why?" But that's a whole other blog.
The main concern this morning is that in an effort to pay the actors more money this year ($662 each for five weeks of work, before taxes and agent commissions), the impression is that NYMF has inadvertently created a situation that will not only lose the actors hundreds of dollars in unemployment claims but somehow torpedo our pension levels, cancel our industry comp tickets and cause all of us to spontaneously combust or something. This whips up the group pretty quickly. We have enough trouble convincing the state unemployment office that acting is a real profession without confusing them with our festival contracts, which can make it look like we're getting paid five times more a week than we actually are. (These new contracts are a combination of a one-time stipend and weekly salaries.) 
Unfortunately with no Equity rep in the room today, as is usually the case, it is left to our poor stage manager to explain that the contract was the result of a joint negotiation between Equity and NYMF in an effort to move us onto an official contract this year that will give us benefits in three years. Poor thing. It's her first NYMF, and my heart goes out to her. (The NYMF stage managers, by the way, are truly the unsung heroes of the festival; they're like the concierges of the theater.)
Without getting into too much detail, here are the lessons learned from the meeting:
Rule No. 1: Don't mess with our industry comps (I'd say "money" but we make so little of it that these free tickets are much more valuable).
Rule No. 2: When in a room full of actors who've sold a variety of bodily fluids just for the privilege of working for 75 percent less than unemployment, you'd better be 100 percent sure of what you're saying about our benefits or we will cut you. Unless you've brought snacks. Then we'll just talk at you all at once. No fool, she immediately refers all future questions to Equity and quickly moves onto the much more favorable topic of lunch.
Admittedly two steps forward and one step back can get frustrating every year. But NYMF is still very young and it's a small price to pay for the opportunity to be a part of the next Pulitzer-Prize winning musical, if you can afford it. So when you get in on the ground floor at NYMF, you roll with the punches, keep your sense of humor, rekindle your love affair with ramen noodles, try not to get fired from your day job and dive into the work. If you have another philosophy, please, for the love of God, be in a show other than mine.
Which reminds me, here is a picture of my eight-week-old baby. Resistance is futile.

        
Musicals Festival Diary: New Mother, Old Habits
        
Workshop Production May Help 'Yank!' March on Broadway
        
A Hip-Hop Playlist That Helped Inspire A Play
        
Five Playwrights Named in Signature Theater Initiative to Stage New Works
        
Behind the Poster: 'Venus in Fur'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MUSICAL THEATER (92%); THEATER (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%); COMMISSION PAY (68%) Donna Lynne Champlin; Musicals Festival Diary; New York Musical Theater Festival; NYMF Diary; Theater; New York City

ORGANIZATION: ACTORS' EQUITY ASSOCIATION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



923 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: Nurturing India's Next Entrepreneurs

BYLINE: NIDA NAJAR


HIGHLIGHT: Established entrepreneurs in India look to ease the burden for the next generation. 

 BODY:
Teacups in hand and butter biscuits within reach, a handful of local technology titans debated the future of some young Indian entrepreneurs on a summer Saturday. After grilling five teams over several hours, the group, the Indian Angel Network, put two promising start-ups on the shortlist for potential financing.
"The Angel Network is really trying to help breed innovation," said Padmaja Ruparel, the president the organization. "Our efforts are really going into driving the economic engine of India." 
Even though India is famous for it software industry, it hasn't been a conducive environment for up-and-coming technology companies. Unlike in Silicon Valley, start-ups here can't easily access capital, tap into a network of serial entrepreneurs or hone their ideas through incubators.
Wealthy individuals and organizations like Indian Angel Network are increasingly filling the void, providing initial capital to young companies with strong prospects.
It's a small but growing class. In the last five years, angel investors plowed less than $200 million into start-ups, based on data from Venture Intelligence, a Mumbai-based research firm. In the United States, the angel investor market topped $20 billion in 2010 alone, according to the Center for Venture Research.
Angel investing is a high-risk, high-reward game. Since start-ups often fail before they ever make any money, the investors, which typically invest less than $1 million, are betting that a few will take off - earning returns as much as 10 times their original outlay. In India, they're basically hoping to find another Nandan Nilekani, the co-founder of the software exporter Infosys, or the next Azim Premji, the billionaire chairman of Wipro, one of the world's largest technology service companies.
Entrepreneurs in India have faced even tougher odds. Until 1991, the country had socialist economic policy, with most industries dominated by state-owned firms or a handful of large business conglomerates like the Tata and Birla groups.
Back then, upstart projects often got stalled by bureaucratic hurdles. Saurabh Srivastava, the chairman of the India Angel Network, who founded the software company IIS Infotech in 1989, said he had to wait 2.5 years to get permission from the government to start his company.
"For first-generation entrepreneurs, it was a monopoly; anyone who had an alliance got ahead," said Mr. Srivastava, who is considered one of the pioneers of India's modern technology industry.
Now, established entrepreneurs and business executives like Mr. Srivastava are looking to ease the burden for the next generation. The Indian Angel Network, for example, has started an incubator, where members mentor young entrepreneurs. It also set up "boot camps," inviting 10 individuals or teams to give three-minute pitches in different cities across the country, to practice for future fund-raising efforts.
Analysts say it's unclear whether angel investing will become enmeshed in India's business culture as it is in Silicon Valley, or whether it will crumble if early investors suffer too many losses. While conditions have improved significantly for India's entrepreneurs, they still face numerous challenges, including a weak infrastructure and a poor education system.
Many of these new investors are "the first wave of people who kind of made money in their first venture and sold off probably 10 years back," said Arun Natarajan, chief executive of Venture Intelligence. "Time will tell what will happen when a real downturn arrives. Will some of these guys stick to safer investments?"
The Indian Angel Network understands the potential pitfalls. Founded in 2006, the group counts the outsourcing giant Raman Roy; Harish Mehta, the founder of an engineering design services firm; and Rajan Anandan, the managing director of Google India, among its 175 members. Mr. Anandan spent the majority of his career working for McKinsey & Company and Dell in the United States, joining the India Angel Network in 2006 after he returned to his home country.
"It's very fulfilling to work with entrepreneurs," said Mr. Anandan, who also invests in start-ups on his own. "We sit on the boards of the companies. We are deeply involved."
To vet potential investments, the group meets most Saturdays in boardrooms across the country. They listen to 20-minute pitches from young entrepreneurs based in India and abroad. After they reach consensus on a start-up, they solicit the larger membership for money.
In the last five years, the group has made 25 investments, notching gains in Druva, a successful real-time data backup software company. Another company in its portfolio, Hungry Zone, a restaurant reservation site in Bangalore, was bought by the British company Just-Eat.
They put candidates through the ringer. While the organization hears more than 200 pitches a year, it only finances a handful.
At a recent meeting, the first presenters were graduates of IIT Roorkee, a prestigious engineering school in the country. The two young men described their idea to develop a virtual learning company for "freshers," or recent graduates, to make them more attractive to multinational companies with Indian operations.
As they described in their pitch, it would fill an unmet need in the country. But 20 minutes into their PowerPoint presentation detailing the hardships face by new graduates, the judges grew restless.
"In the interests of time, can you move towards a solution?" asked Vishal Lalani, who runs a dashboard instruments manufacturing company.
Later in the day, the group voted down the pitch, citing doubts that the idea would really address the problem.
"We're not looking at it as cutting checks," said Pradeep Gupta, the chairman of the specialty media house CyberMedia and a member of Indian Angel Network. "We should be able to add value to the company. We should be able to add value to India."

        
Facebook Chat With Lydia Polgreen
        
The Rise and Fall of Fat in India
        
Lessons From the FlipKart Founders

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (94%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); STARTUPS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (70%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (69%); AFFLUENT MARKET (68%); FUNDRAISING (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) angel investors; entrepreneurs; India; India Angel Network; Nandan Nilekani; technology; Premji, Azim H; Entrepreneurship; Wipro Ltd; Wipro Ltd|WIT|NYSE

COMPANY: INFOSYS LTD (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Wipro Ltd

TICKER: INFY (PAR) (53%); INFY (NYSE) (53%); INFY (NSE) (53%) Wipro Ltd; WIT; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (53%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: Premji, Azim H

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); MUMBAI, INDIA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) INDIA (97%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) India

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



924 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: Chinatown to Join Roster of Business Improvement Districts

BYLINE: JOSEPH BERGER


HIGHLIGHT: The vote by the City Council allows businesses to organize to upgrade the area. Some local merchants, however, said they worried about the mandatory fees. 

 BODY:
The twisting, bustling streets of Chinatown have been given that ubiquitous bureaucratic designation, "business improvement district," by a unanimous vote Wednesday of the City Council.
The council's 50-0 vote authorizes a business district organization to assess property owners from $200 to $5,000 a year so it can hire workers to sweep the streets, remove graffiti, enhance lighting, add signs to guide tourists and perform other upgrades. But the plan was vigorously opposed by a group of landlords and merchants who note that with the local economy still ailing from the impact of 9/11 they cannot afford even the rates that will be charged.
"It's the final nail in the coffin," said Paul J.Q. Lee, who lost his Chinatown novelty store a few years ago because of a decline in tourists and recently ran unsuccessfully for Democratic district leader. "There's a depression in Chinatown."
Another opponent of the designation, Jan Lee, who owns several buildings on Mott Street, predicted that the move would open the door to developers to tear down the colorful, closely packed tenements and make way for sleeker towers.
But Margaret S. Chin, the local councilwoman who championed the business district, hailed the vote as "a long time coming" and said it would give Chinatown a tool that has invigorated 64 other neighborhoods since 1976. 
"I am 100 percent confident that the BID will improve the business environment in Chinatown, help bring new visitors to our community, and enhance the overall quality of life for residents," she said in a statement. "Most importantly, I believe the BID will foster economic development for our local businesses as well as bring in much needed tourism to the neighborhood." 
On such a local matter, most council members simply followed Ms. Chin's lead on the question.
The organizers of the Chinatown district say that 35 percent of owners would pay only the minimum assessment of $200 a year, 74 percent would pay under $1,000 a year, and only a handful would pay the maximum of $5,000 a year. 

        
City Council Rezones Lower East Side
        
Quinn Backs Israel at Ceremony for Kidnapped Soldier
        
A Landmark That Should Have Been, at Last, Is
        
Council Members Call for Change to Marijuana Possession Law
        
Manhattan Borough Chief Says Council Earmarks Should Stop

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (94%); CITIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ZONING (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); CANNABIS (69%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (50%) business improvement districts; Chinatown; City Council; Chin, Margaret S; City Council (NYC); Chinatown (NYC); Business; Manhattan

ORGANIZATION: City Council (NYC)

PERSON: Chin, Margaret S

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Chinatown (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



925 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: A Shifting Electorate: The Vanishing Rural Voter

BYLINE: ALLISON KOPICKI


HIGHLIGHT: As the number of rural voters dwindle, so does their influence -- which could have broad implications for Republicans in the 2012 campaign. 

 BODY:
Voters who live in rural areas are often at odds with their suburban and urban counterparts when it comes to national politics. And as the number of rural voters dwindle, so does their influence -- which could have broad implications for how the Republican primaries and the general election play out in 2012. 
Over the last 10 years, census findings show a continuing population decline in rural communities, particularly in the Midwest and Northeast, and migration to metropolitan areas, mostly in the South and West. A report by the Population Reference Bureau, a nonpartisan research organization in Washington, notes that by 2010, 51 percent of Americans lived in the suburbs, 33 percent lived in central cities, and just 16 percent lived in rural America, down from 20 percent in 2000.
A recent New York Times/CBS News poll found attitudinal divides between voters from urban and suburban areas and those from rural areas. While Americans from all three types of communities are deeply concerned about the economy and jobs, they differ sharply over things like the role of the federal government, global warming, immigration and same-sex marriage. 
Voters from rural areas were most likely to take conservative positions while their counterparts held more moderate views. For example, 44 percent of urban voters and 37 percent of suburban voters said illegal immigrants should be able to eventually apply for citizenship, while a plurality of rural voters took a different point of view, with 48 percent saying illegal immigrants should be deported. Forty-one percent of rural residents said they considered themselves conservative, compared with 34 percent of suburban and 33 percent of urban residents.
Three of the president's proposals for creating jobs in the American Jobs Act held almost nearly equal appeal across the three regional groups: cutting taxes for small businesses, spending money on the nation's infrastructure and significantly cutting payroll taxes. One proposal saw more division: Half of urban and suburban Americans said that providing money to states to avoid layoffs of public employees was a good idea, compared to 4 in 10 rural Americans.
People living in metropolitan areas "are more dependent on public services on a daily basis - getting to work, public safety issues, infrastructure, roads and hospitals," said Mark Mather, a demographer and associate vice president of domestic programs at the Population Reference Bureau. Candidates who are campaigning on issues of smaller government and less spending on public services may not have as receptive an audience in suburban and urban areas, compared with rural places, where government can be less visible.
This may also explain why the Tea Party, with its antigovernment-spending message, holds less appeal for urbanites and suburbanites, of whom just 18 percent and 21 percent, respectively, find the movement favorable, compared with 26 percent of rural respondents. 
Suburban voters accounted for 49 percent of the electorate in 2008 and 2010, according to exit polls. About 30 percent of voters were from urban areas, and just 14 percent came from rural communities. For President Obama and the field of Republican candidates looking to win over the hearts of the suburban voters - a typically sought-after swing group - the suburbs have become a different place: younger, more ethnically diverse, and perhaps most important, quite a bit poorer.
Mr. Obama narrowly captured the suburbs in 2008, 50 percent to Senator John McCain's 48 percent. Since the end of 2009, however, the president's standing among suburbanites has declined, with just 35 percent approving of his handling of the job in the recent New York Times/CBS News poll. 
Census data reveals that the recession has brought about a sharp increase in poverty in suburban areas, which traditionally have the lowest poverty rates. Nearly 12 percent of suburban dwellers were living in poverty in 2010, up from 8 percent in 2001. Mr. Mather pointed to the growing midsized metro areas in Nevada and the interior of California and Florida, which were all booming just a few years ago and are now seeing stagnant growth and even migration out of state.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (96%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (93%); SUBURBS (91%); IMMIGRATION (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CITIES (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (79%); CAUCUSES (79%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (79%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); POPULATION DECLINE (76%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); NATURALIZATION (71%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (71%); INFRASTRUCTURE (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (67%); US AMERICAN JOBS ACT OF 2011 (67%); JOB CREATION (67%); LAYOFFS (66%); DEPORTATION (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); CORPORATE TAX (62%); CITIZENSHIP (53%); GLOBAL WARMING (52%); MARRIAGE (52%); GAYS & LESBIANS (52%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (52%) The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: POPULATION REFERENCE BUREAU (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



926 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Prescriptions)

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Generic Drug Savings Promoted by Industry Group

BYLINE: DUFF WILSON


HIGHLIGHT: The report comes with recommendations for how to gain more savings. 

 BODY:
Generic drugs saved consumers and the government $931 billion over the last decade, an industry group said on Wednesday in a report promoting policy changes to increase savings further.
The report from the Generic Pharmaceutical Association, a Washington trade group, said $157 billion of the savings were achieved last year alone, with more expected this year as 22 drugs go off patent.
 "There's a great story to be told, and it's our job to tell it more effectively," Ralph G. Neas, hired as chief executive of the association starting last week, said in an interview. "I think it's fair to say the industry generally has not done as good a job as possible in telling the story of how generics have been helping health care and helping the national economy."
And they want to do a better job setting the political agenda. Generic drug makers are facing some major challenges and new legislation in Washington. Mr. Neas said the association hoped to use his contacts and coalition-building skills as former president and chief executive of the National Coalition on Health Care and former executive director of the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights.
 The report focused on four policy goals:
More generic drugs in Medicaid. The government health program for low-income and disabled people, according to the report, "needlessly" pays about $200 a month for a typical brand-name prescription drug compared with $20 for an identical generic drug. Medicaid's generic usage rate, it said, is nearly 10 percentage points lower than the national average of 78 percent. Keep the Federal Trade Commission out of patent settlements. The report says out-of-court settlements between name brand drug companies and the generic companies that want to start selling their drugs are "pro-consumer and pro-competitive." This year, it says, 16 of the 22 new first-time generic drugs are coming to market before the patent even expires as a result of these settlements.
 But the commission's chairman, Jon Leibowitz, says some of the settlements are illegal "pay for delay" sweetheart deals that cost consumers $3.5 billion a year. In an interview Tuesday, Mr. Leibowitz said the ones that require special review are the roughly 30 percent of out-of-court patent settlements between brand and generic drug makers that involve payments by the brand-name company and delayed marketing by the generic company.
 "We at the F.T.C. have never disputed the importance of generic drugs in lowering costs," he said. "In fact, generic drugs clearly lower costs by 85 or 90 percent. That's why we're so concerned about delaying their entry." 
Speed up new generic drug approvals. The industry and Food and Drug Administration have agreed on a new industry fee to pay for faster work at the F.D.A. Office of Generic Drugs, which has a backlog of about 2,000 generic drug applications. The agreement is under review now by the Office of Management and Budget before going to Congress in January, Mr. Neas said. Allow generic versions of biological drugs. The Administration plans to introduce "bio-similar pathway" legislation to put some limit on the monopoly status of biological drugs, but the balance between the inventor companies and generic competitors will be debated in Congress.
 The association's report was prepared by IMS Health, an industry data firm, comparing prices and quantities of name-brand pharmaceutical products with generic competition.
 Next year is expected to set a record in generic drug savings, the report said. Patents come off the top two best sellers in the nation, Pfizer's cholesterol drug Lipitor and Bristol-Myers Squibb's blood thinner Plavix, in November 2012.

        
F.D.A. Chief Backs Fees for Generic Drug Reviews
        
Court Backs Patents for Diagnostic Tests
        
Forecast Sees Drug-Sales Growth Overseas
        
Angiomax May Get Patent Extension
        
Analysts: Lilly Faces Growing Financial Pressure

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GENERIC DRUGS (94%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); MEDICAID (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (88%); BRANDING (86%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS PATENTS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (77%); PATENTS (76%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (68%); CIVIL RIGHTS (66%); SALES & SELLING (66%); US FDA REVIEW (64%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%) federal trade commission; generic drugs; patents; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Generic Brands and Products; Food and Drug Administration; IMS Health; biotechnology; Drug Industry; health care law

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (84%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (59%) Food and Drug Administration; IMS Health

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



927 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Prescriptions)

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Generic Drug Savings Promoted by Industry Group

BYLINE: DUFF WILSON


HIGHLIGHT: The report comes with recommendations for how to gain more savings. 

 BODY:
Generic drugs saved consumers and the government $931 billion over the last decade, an industry group said on Wednesday in a report promoting policy changes to increase savings further.
The report from the Generic Pharmaceutical Association, a Washington trade group, said $157 billion of the savings were achieved last year alone, with more expected this year as 22 drugs go off patent.
 "There's a great story to be told, and it's our job to tell it more effectively," Ralph G. Neas, hired as chief executive of the association starting last week, said in an interview. "I think it's fair to say the industry generally has not done as good a job as possible in telling the story of how generics have been helping health care and helping the national economy."
And they want to do a better job setting the political agenda. Generic drug makers are facing some major challenges and new legislation in Washington. Mr. Neas said the association hoped to use his contacts and coalition-building skills as former president and chief executive of the National Coalition on Health Care and former executive director of the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights.
 The report focused on four policy goals:
More generic drugs in Medicaid. The government health program for low-income and disabled people, according to the report, "needlessly" pays about $200 a month for a typical brand-name prescription drug compared with $20 for an identical generic drug. Medicaid's generic usage rate, it said, is nearly 10 percentage points lower than the national average of 78 percent. Keep the Federal Trade Commission out of patent settlements. The report says out-of-court settlements between name brand drug companies and the generic companies that want to start selling their drugs are "pro-consumer and pro-competitive." This year, it says, 16 of the 22 new first-time generic drugs are coming to market before the patent even expires as a result of these settlements.
 But the commission's chairman, Jon Leibowitz, says some of the settlements are illegal "pay for delay" sweetheart deals that cost consumers $3.5 billion a year. In an interview Tuesday, Mr. Leibowitz said the ones that require special review are the roughly 30 percent of out-of-court patent settlements between brand and generic drug makers that involve payments by the brand-name company and delayed marketing by the generic company.
 "We at the F.T.C. have never disputed the importance of generic drugs in lowering costs," he said. "In fact, generic drugs clearly lower costs by 85 or 90 percent. That's why we're so concerned about delaying their entry." 
Speed up new generic drug approvals. The industry and Food and Drug Administration have agreed on a new industry fee to pay for faster work at the F.D.A. Office of Generic Drugs, which has a backlog of about 2,000 generic drug applications. The agreement is under review now by the Office of Management and Budget before going to Congress in January, Mr. Neas said. Allow generic versions of biological drugs. The Administration plans to introduce "bio-similar pathway" legislation to put some limit on the monopoly status of biological drugs, but the balance between the inventor companies and generic competitors will be debated in Congress.
 The association's report was prepared by IMS Health, an industry data firm, comparing prices and quantities of name-brand pharmaceutical products with generic competition.
 Next year is expected to set a record in generic drug savings, the report said. Patents come off the top two best sellers in the nation, Pfizer's cholesterol drug Lipitor and Bristol-Myers Squibb's blood thinner Plavix, in November 2012.

        
F.D.A. Chief Backs Fees for Generic Drug Reviews
        
Court Backs Patents for Diagnostic Tests
        
Forecast Sees Drug-Sales Growth Overseas
        
Angiomax May Get Patent Extension
        
Analysts: Lilly Faces Growing Financial Pressure

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GENERIC DRUGS (94%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); MEDICAID (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (88%); BRANDING (86%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS PATENTS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (77%); PATENTS (76%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (68%); CIVIL RIGHTS (66%); SALES & SELLING (66%); US FDA REVIEW (64%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%) federal trade commission; generic drugs; patents; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Generic Brands and Products; Food and Drug Administration; IMS Health; biotechnology; Drug Industry; health care law

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (84%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (59%) Food and Drug Administration; IMS Health

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



928 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1766 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: DEALBOOK


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
SABMiller to Buy Foster's for $10.15 Billion | SABMiller finally clinched a deal to buy the Foster's Group for $10.15 billion, drawing a hostile takeover campaign that lasted months to a close.
Under the terms of the agreement, SABMiller agreed to raise its bid to 5.10 Australian dollars a share from 4.90 Australian dollars a share. Shares in Foster's closed on Wednesday at 4.89 Australian dollars.
The deal will finally give SABMiller control of Australia's biggest brewer, opening up a faster-growing market.
DEALBOOK | NEWS RELEASE
DEAL NOTES
'Ultra Prime' Home Prices on the Rise | Markets may be struggling, but the prices of "ultra prime" homes - properties worth more than $15.7 million - are on the rise, especially in Asia and developing markets, where more and more of the globe's super rich can be found.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
A Weak Board at Yahoo Stumbles in a Series of Missteps | The Yahoo board appears to have no vision or patience, leaving the company directionless and allowing outside players to push it in inopportune directions. 
The Deal Professor writes that the directors could take the easy way out with a sale at a low price, instead of the hard work of turning around the company.
Deal Professor 
Justice Dept. Will Not Brief Lawmakers on AT&T Challenge | The Justice Department has told lawmakers that it will not brief them on its motives for challenging AT&T's proposed merger with T-Mobile USA because the matter is one of active litigation, Reuters reports.
Separately, 100 House Republicans wrote to President Obama, calling for a settlement of the Justice Department's lawsuit. They argued that the challenge "will thwart job creation and economic growth."
AT&T and the Justice Department are set to discuss the prospects of a settlement at a status conference in Federal District Court on Wednesday morning.
REUTERS | THE HILL
Community Lenders Say Big-Bank Mergers Must End | America's community banks are appealing to the Federal Reserve for an end to mergers between financial firms with more than $100 billion in assets.
The target of their ire: Capital One's $9 billion deal for ING Direct USA. Capital One argued that the takeover would reduce, not increase, systemic risk.
REUTERS | DEALBOOK
Focus Financial to Purchase East Coast Broker | After being approached by several suitors, the Boston-based brokerage firm Colony Group will sell itself to Focus Financial Partners for $1.3 billion, in the adviser's forth purchase this year, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Glam Buys Ning | Glam Media announced late Tuesday that it had purchased Ning, a social network co-founded by the venture capitalist Marc Andreessen.
DealBook 
INVESTMENT BANKING 
UBS Chief Claims to Have Board's Backing | The chief executive of UBS, Oswald Grubel, said he had the support of his board, despite chatter that the recent $2.3 billion rogue trading scandal at the bank would cost him his job.
REUTERS | BLOOMBERG
Singapore's GIC Criticizes UBS Over 'Lapses' | UBS's biggest shareholder, the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation, has voiced its criticism of the rogue trading scandal that has engulfed the lender, blaming "lapses" in the bank's controls.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Bank of America Cuts Include 13 Industrials Bankers | The group, which included two managing directors, David Iwan and Egan Antill, comprised about 5 percent of Bank of America Merrill Lynch's industrials team.
DealBook 
Jefferies Profit Rises, but Revenue Drops | The Jefferies Group posted a 53 percent rise in third-quarter profit for its third quarter. But investors and analysts were more concerned about the investment bank's 2 percent drop in revenue.
That could bode ill for bigger rivals like Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley. "There are no surprises in Jefferies numbers relative to what others are going to produce," Richard X. Bove of Rochdale Securities told Reuters. "You don't know how bad it's going to be, all you know is that it's going to be very bad."
BLOOMBERG | REUTERS
End of State Aid for Nordbank | European Union competition authorities reached a settlement with HSH Nordbank in which the German bank agree to strict regulations to the size of its balance sheet to put an end to state-aid proceedings, The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Financing Continues to Dry Up for Buyouts | Finding money to finance mergers and buyouts is set to get harder, The Wall Street Journal writes, as banks choose to play it safe amid growing hostility in credit markets and rein in some of their riskier lending.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Mario Cuomo's Bank Deal May Be Thorny for Gov. Cuomo | Mario Cuomo's role as the lead investor of a consortium looking to buy a small bank in Long Island and prime it for expansion in New York City could prove problematic for his son, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo.
NEW YORK TIMES
Blackstone Builds Asia Team | Blackstone Group has poached a top China deal maker, Yi Luo, from its rival, the Carlyle Group, adding his expertise to its new Shanghai-based buyout team, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
HEDGE FUNDS 
TCI Veteran Expands New Firm | Stuart Powers, a former partner at the Children's Investment Fund, an activist hedge fund, has made four top hires for his new London-based firm, Hengistbury Investment Partners, Financial News reports.
FINALTERNATIVES | FINANCIAL NEWS
Gold Forecast Still Glitters | Bubbles notwithstanding, gold is set to hit a high in excess of $2,000 an ounce come the new year, according to average forecasts, with a large number of hedge fund investors expecting further sharp appreciation of the metal as the euro-zone crisis deepens.
FINANCIAL TIMES
New Laws Prompt Board Revamp at Trade Group | The pending introduction of new financial regulations around the globe has prompted the Managed Funds Association, a hedge fund trade group, to restructure its boardroom, and vote in Maverick Capital's William Goodell as chairman.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Which Fund Strategies Buckled in Turmoil? | Hedge funds were hit hard and where it hurts last month. CityWire digs a little deeper to examine the actual strategies that felt the heat in August.
CITYWIRE
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Whistle Blows on Manchester United I.P.O. | The English soccer champions Manchester United have decided to delay a planned initial public offering in Singapore because of volatile markets, Reuters reports, citing an unidentified source.
DealBook 
Sinhohydro Underwriter Pushes for $3.5 Billion I.P.O. | An underwriter for Sinohydro's forthcoming Shanghair initial public offering is pushing the power company to price its shares at as much as 6.41 yuan each. That would raise $3.5 billion in an I.P.O.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Putting a Price on Voting Rights | A dual-share structure that limits voting rights - like the one proposed by the Glazer family's planned I.P.O. of Manchester United - is not necessarily a bad thing, Reuters Breakingviews writes. But it could mean an inherent discount when the stock comes to market.
REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
Tesco Plans I.P.O. of Thai Property Assets | The British supermarket giant said it planned to list a 14 million baht ($460 million) property portfolio in Thailand, in an effort to free up capital for further growth.
REUTERS | BLOOMBERG
Investment Bankers Busy Seeking I.P.O. Deals for 2012 | European investment bankers looking to increase productivity in the face of large job cuts are lining up such a plethora of new fund-raising deals that 2012 could prove a record year for listings in the region - if they can get them off the ground, Reuters writes.
REUTERS
VENTURE CAPITAL 
GrubHub Raises $50 Million and Buys a Rival | GrubHub, which allows users to order restaurant food from their computers or mobile devices, has landed $50 million in a new round led by Lightspeed Ventures, and plans to announce a deal to buy Dotmenu, a rival.
BITS
Facebook Revenue Could Top $4 Billion, Analysts Say | Facebook is on track to post $4.7 billion in revenue this year, mainly on the back of growth at its Credits virtual currency unit, according to forecasts from the market research firm eMarketer.
VENTUREBEAT
V.C.'s Call on Arizona to Lend to Start-Ups | With financing getting harder for start-ups to land, entrepreneurs in Arizona are appealing to lawmakers to offer venture capitalists guarantees from the state on their loans, The East Valley Tribune reports.
EAST VALLEY TRIBUNE
Blackstone Looks to Advise Silicon Valley Start-Ups | The Blackstone Group is seeking to push its advisory unit into the business of counseling tech start-ups, a senior managing director tells Portfolio.com.
PORTFOLIO
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Former Expert Network Figure Convicted of Insider Trading | James Fleishman, who worked at Primary Global Research, was convicted of orchestrating a secret exchange of information between hedge fund traders and employees at companies.
DealBook 
Prosecutors Said to Close In on Goldman's Gupta | Rajat Gupta is feeling the heat from federal prosecutors as they draw closer to leveling criminal charges against the former Goldman Sachs director for allegedly offering inside information about his firm at the height of the financial crisis, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Consumer Bureau Readies Its New Financial Rules | Raj Date, the former banker temporarily leading the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, outlined a timeline for the Wall Street watchdog to unveil a string of new regulations.
DealBook 
Dodd-Frank Is Big Target on Campaign Trail | The Dodd-Frank Act has become the latest whipping boy for Republican presidential candidates seeking to discredit the Obama administration, with G.O.P. hopefuls claiming the financial regulatory overhaul is to blame for some of today's economic woes.
NEW YORK TIMES
Solyndra's Top Executives to Plead the Fifth at Hearing | Solyndra's chief executive and its chief financial officer plan to invoke their fifth-amendment rights against self-incrimination at a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing into the collapse of the solar firm, which received $528 million in loan guarantees from the government.
NEW YORK TIMES
Regulators Set to Clamp Down on E.T.F.'s | As the popularity of exchange-traded funds gathers pace round the world, financial regulators are running to adapt, particularly given that it was E.T.F.'s that allegedly facilitated the recent rogue trading scandal at UBS.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

        
Morning Take-Out
        
Morning Take-Out

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAKEOVERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MERGERS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (86%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (86%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (86%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); HOME PRICES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); SOCIAL MEDIA (72%); COMMUNITY BANKS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (68%); LITIGATION (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); VENTURE CAPITAL (64%); US PRESIDENTS (63%); JOB CREATION (62%) Morning Take-Out; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: SABMILLER PLC (90%); FOSTER'S GROUP LTD (58%); ING GROEP NV (56%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (53%); ING BANK FSB (51%)

TICKER: SOSAB (JSE) (90%); SAB (LSE) (90%); INGA (BIT) (56%); INGA (AMS) (56%); ING (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (90%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (90%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (53%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (53%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); MARC ANDREESSEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) AUSTRALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



929 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: Moody's Cuts Ratings on Three Big Banks

BYLINE: DEALBOOK


HIGHLIGHT: The ratings agency said Washington was more likely "to allow a large bank to fail should it become financially troubled." 

 BODY:
Moody's Investors Service cut its credit ratings on Bank of America, Citigroup and Wells Fargo on Wednesday, saying that Washington was now less likely to bail out the banks if needed. 
"The downgrades result from a decrease in the probability that the U.S. government would support the bank, if needed," Moody's said. 
 The ratings agency said that it did think the government would provide some support to systemically important financial institutions. But the huge bailouts that rescued Bank of America and Citigroup and others during the financial crisis might not happen again, Moody's said. 
"It is also more likely now than during the financial crisis to allow a large bank to fail should it become financially troubled, as the risks of contagion become less acute." the ratings agency said. It added that the moves "do not reflect a weakening of the intrinsic credit quality" of the bank. 
The ratings agency cut Bank of America's long-term senior debt to to Baa1 from A2 and lowered short-term debt to Prime-2 from Prime-1. 
Shares of Bank of America were down 3.7 percent in early afternoon trading. 
In a statement, Bank of America said: "Moody's decision to downgrade our credit rating is based on factors external to Bank of America: Their conclusion that the Dodd-Frank legislation will make the U.S. government less likely to support financial institutions in a crisis, and a possible further deterioration of the economy. In fact, Moody's explicitly stated that the downgrades do not reflect a weakening of the intrinsic credit quality of Bank of America."
The bank said it had made "significant progress" in improving its capital and liquidity positions. 
During the financial crisis, Bank of America received some $45 billion in federal aid, which it has since repaid. The bank has been trying to shore up investor confidence as it continues to struggle with the legacy of tens of billions of dollars in bad mortgage assets. In recent weeks, it has announced an executive shakeup, a streamlining that will cut 30,000 jobs and a $5 billion investment by Warren E. Buffett. 
Moody's also cut its ratings on Citigroup's short-term debt to Prime 2 from Prime 1, while affirming its A3 long-term rating. 
Shares of Citigroup were slightly lower, at $26.85. In a statement, the bank said: "We completely disagree with Moody's change to Citigroup's short-term rating. It does not accurately reflect the significant progress Citi has made since Moody's last rated Citi more than two-and-a-half years ago."
And Moody's lowered its rating on Wells Fargo's senior debt to A2 to A1. Its Prime-1 short-term rating was affirmed. Its shares were up 0.8 percent in afternoon trading.
In June, the ratings agency had put Bank of America, Citigroup and Wells Fargo on review for a possible downgrade. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (93%); BANK FAILURES (91%); CREDIT BUREAUS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); LAYOFFS (62%) Credit Ratings and Credit Rating Agencies; Bank of America Corporation; Citigroup Inc; Moody's Investors Service Inc; Wells Fargo & Co; Bank of America Corporation|BAC|NYSE; Citigroup Inc|C|NYSE; Wells Fargo & Co|WFC|NYSE; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (95%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (93%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); MOODY'S CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of America Corporation; Citigroup Inc; Moody's Investors Service Inc; Wells Fargo & Co

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (95%); BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); MCO (NYSE) (92%) Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE; Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE; Wells Fargo & Co; WFC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



930 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: 2012 Could Be Tie Breaker of Last 2 Cycles

BYLINE: RICHARD W. STEVENSON


HIGHLIGHT: Democrats won big in 2008. Republicans took 2010. Now the parties are looking at 2012 as the tie breaker, with risks for both sides. 

 BODY:
American politics is a continual exercise in course correction. But the ship of state has been tacking especially erratically for the past few election cycles. 
President Obama won a commanding victory in 2008 that some giddy Democrats said remade the political map. It didn't. Republicans stormed back last year to take the House, but found, to their frustration, that winning control of one chamber does not constitute a mandate.
In the battles this year over the budget and an array of other issues, both parties have used those election results to conclude that the country is really on their side and that they have no reason to give in. Yet neither Democrats nor Republicans have enough power at the moment to win the big legislative and political battles on their own terms. It is 2008 versus 2010, and neither side has a clear advantage.
Both are now betting heavily that 2012 will be the tie breaker.
Just how much so became clear this week. After a year in which Democrats and Republicans weighed whether to compromise and show voters they can get something done now, or to hold fast to principle and bank on the results of the next election, they removed any remaining doubt about their choice.
President Obama's signal on Monday that he would shift from legislating to campaigning over jobs and deficit reduction was acknowledgement - belatedly, many in his party would say - that brute partisanship is the only effective posture at this point. In that decision, he was joining Republicans, who have never really doubted it. So while budget talks will grind on at the Capitol and there remains some chance that negotiators can find a patch of common ground, both parties are going all-in on the outcome next November.
"These guys are playing a different game than the president's playing," Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. told a campaign fund-raiser in Chicago on Tuesday evening, referring to Congressional Republicans and what the White House sees as their political intransigence. "And we are no longer playing."
The decision to go to the people and wait for 2013 to address the big problems in a big way elevates the stakes in both the presidential and Congressional campaigns. In many ways that is how it should be: an election in which differences are sharpened rather than blurred, where voters have the opportunity to sort out the mixed messages from the last several cycles.
It is a chance for the electorate to express more clearly whether it really wants a fundamentally smaller and less activist government or is just temporarily frustrated that government has not done a better job of cushioning it from an especially sharp, persistent and unequally distributed economic downturn. 
The Republican presidential candidates are doing their part. In a series of remarkably informative debates, they have challenged many of the traditions and assumptions that have guided American politics for decades, from SocialSecurity's role as a guarantee against poverty in old age to the position of religion in public life. 
Gov. Rick Perry of Texas continues to play an especially provocative role; on Tuesday he used a visit to New York to challenge Mr. Obama on his Middle East policy just as the president was gathering with world leaders across town at the United Nations.
So different are the approaches of the two parties, Speaker John A. Boehner said the other day, that it often feels to him that he and the president come from two different worlds.
"Sometimes the conversations that we have would be like two groups of people from two different planets who hardly understand each other," he said, suggesting that whatever bonding they did on the golf course last summer didn't last past the 18th green.
But telling voters that compromise is not possible and asking the electorate to try once again to sort it out carries risks for both sides. 
One is that those voters who are not especially ideological - and think the job of government is to get the job done, not squabble about it - will grow further disgusted with Washington. Though with the latest New York Times/CBS News poll showing that only 6 percent of Americans believe most members of Congress deserve re-election, there's probably not a whole lot more untapped disgust out there. 
Another risk is that the standoff can end only when one party or the other achieves something close to total victory, taking the White House and both chambers of Congress with a filibuster-proof majority in the Senate. 
It was only while his party controlled the House and the Senate - with a filibuster-proof 60-vote supermajority in the Senate for a period - that Mr. Obama rammed his health care overhaul through Congress and passed a tougher regulatory framework for the financial system. Republicans are now pledging to undo both if they prevail on Election Day.
But given all the crosscurrents in the country, there is no guarantee that voters will render a clear verdict next November. In fact, Americans tend to prefer divided government, on the assumption that it will curb the excesses of either side and force compromise. 
But the record of the last year provides little evidence that a political system that increasingly rewards extremes and leaves the center feeling underrepresented will have much incentive to attack complicated problems in an ambitious and appropriately nuanced way. At which point the problems get deferred to the next campaign, and the next.
"It's always election time," said Dan Maffei, a Democrat who was elected to the House from a swing district in upstate New York in 2008 only to lose in the Republican wave of 2010. He denounces the marginalization of the political center and the risks of leaving such a broad swath of voters feeling alienated from the political process.
Having won one and lost one, he is running to get the seat back in 2012.

        
Best Political Quotations of the Weekend
        
The Problem With Obama's Re-Election Pitch
        
Gas Pumps Become Battleground for Obama and Republicans
        
Republicans Bet Public Will Reward Them for Proposing Cuts
        
The Case for Obama Campaigning as a Foreign Policy President

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); FUNDRAISING (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) 2008; 2010; 2012; Congress; Democrats; Elections; president obama; Republicans; White house; Obama, Barack; United States Politics and Government; House of Representatives; Republican Party; Senate; The 44th President; The Caucus; The White House

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives; Republican Party; Senate

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOE BIDEN (58%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011



931 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 295 words

HEADLINE: Perry Video Calls Obama 'President Zero'

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Gov. Rick Perry's campaign releases a Web video that offers a grim picture of a broken economy presided over by "President Zero." 

 BODY:
UPDATE 1:10 p.m.: Ahead of Thursday's debate in Orlando, Fla., the presidential campaign of Gov. Rick Perry of Texas released a Web video on Wednesday that offers a grim picture of a broken economy presided over by "President Zero."
The first half of the slickly produced video shows scenes of businesses and neighborhoods crumbling and quotes President Obama accepting responsibility for the economy.
"I love these folks who say, 'Well, this is Obama's economy.' That's fine. Give it to me," Mr. Obama says.
His statement is followed by a series of quick news reports about data released this month that showed the country created no new net jobs in August.
The second half of the video pivots to a gauzy America that would be "working again" as Mr. Perry declares his love for the country that he wants to lead.
"We don't need a president who apologizes for America," Mr. Perry says in the video. "I believe in America. I believe in her purpose and her promise. I believe her best days have not yet been lived."
Mr. Perry's video apparently drew the attention of his chief rival for the Republican nomination, Mitt Romney, who quickly sought to compare the Texas governor -- unfavorably -- with Mr. Obama.
"Governor Perry criticizes President Obama for an economy that added zero jobs in August, yet Texas added even fewer and has over a million people unemployed," said Andrea Saul, a spokeswoman for Mr. Romney.
In an e-mail to reporters, Mr. Romney dubbed Mr. Perry "Governor Sub-Zero."

        
Perry Sees Message in New York; Faults Bachmann HPV Claim
        
On the Trail in New Hampshire, Perry Focuses on Jobs
        
Rick Perry Has Stem Cell Procedure, Then Works to Bring it to Texas
        
Republican Voters Lack Enthusiasm for Presidential Contenders, Poll Shows
        
Romney Recruits Congressional Republicans

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (93%); INTERNET VIDEO (92%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (69%) Gov. Rick Perry; President Barack Obama; Presidential Election of 2012; Obama, Barack; Perry, Rick; The Caucus

PERSON: RICK PERRY (95%); BARACK OBAMA (93%); MITT ROMNEY (79%) Obama, Barack; Perry, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



932 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: Breaking News: The Civil War is Over

BYLINE: LINDA GREENHOUSE


HIGHLIGHT: In passing its own health care act, Virginia seceded from the reach of the federal health care law. 

 BODY:
Judicial opinions on the constitutionality of the new health care law are pouring out of the federal courts. With the general expectation that the Supreme Court will have to resolve what is now a clear conflict between two federal courts of appeals, the individual lower-court decisions have pretty much ceased to make news. By the time the Supreme Court rules, if and when it does, a decision earlier this month by the federal appeals court in Richmond, Va., throwing out Virginia's challenge to the statute without reaching the ultimate constitutional question, will be all but forgotten.
That would be unfortunate, because in its relatively brief 33 pages, this opinion from a unanimous three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, sitting in the heart of the old Confederacy, offers a powerful reminder of a fact that a dismaying number of folks appear lately to have forgotten: the Civil War is over.
On March 23, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and Virginia's attorney general, Kenneth T. Cuccinelli II, filed suit in federal court to have the law declared unconstitutional. The next day, Gov. Bob McDonnell signed into law the Virginia Health Care Freedom Act. These last two events were inextricably linked.
The Virginia law provides that "no resident of this Commonwealth... shall be required to obtain or maintain a policy of individual insurance coverage. . . "
In other words, a few weeks shy of the 150th anniversary of Virginia's "," the Commonwealth of Virginia seceded from the reach of the federal health care law's individual mandate.
True, the Virginia Health Care Freedom Act contains no enforcement mechanism. Nor is there any prospect that the federal government, once the requirement to buy health insurance takes effect in 2014, would pay the state law the slightest attention. But that was never the point. The purpose of the Virginia law - in addition to permitting the state's public officials to strike a high-minded tone while pandering for votes - was to give Virginia something that it and the two dozen other Republican-run states challenging the federal law manifestly lack: standing to sue, the right to be in court in the first place.
Although the courts that have struck down the law have glossed over the point - oddly enough, given that conservative judges are usually obsessively attentive to the doctrines of standing, ripeness, and other barriers to entry to federal court - the state plaintiffs can't meet the basic requirement of standing: a concrete, immediate "injury in fact," caused by the action that is being complained about. The individual mandate, as such, imposes no obligation on the states. Neither vague mumbling about sovereign interests nor resentment about being told what to do by Washington is sufficient to get the states through the door - or didn't use to be sufficient. So Virginia, whose governor was one of the first graduates of the evangelist Pat Robertson's Regent University Law School, attempted by its declaration of health care freedom to inoculate itself against being thrown out of court. "The collision between the state and federal schemes," the state's legal complaint asserted, "creates an immediate, actual controversy involving antagonistic assertions of right."
A federal district judge, Henry E. Hudson, agreed with the state in August of last year, refusing to dismiss the case and allowing the lawsuit to proceed (his eventual opinion, issued last December, surprised no one by declaring the individual mandate unconstitutional.) Explaining why the Virginia Health Care Freedom Act gave the state standing to sue, Judge Hudson said: "The mere existence of the lawfully-enacted statute is sufficient to trigger the duty of the Attorney General of Virginia to defend the law and the associated sovereign power to enact it."
Not so fast, said Judge Diana Gribbon Motz for the Fourth Circuit panel, which also included Judges James A. Wynn Jr. and Andre M. Davis. "A state possesses no legitimate interest in protecting its citizens from the government of the United States," Judge Motz wrote. (Should a federal judge really have to say such a thing in 2011?) "Contrary to Virginia's arguments, the mere existence of a state law like the VHCFA does not license a state to mount a judicial challenge to any federal statute with which the state law assertedly conflicts." The Virginia law was not an exercise of "sovereign power," she continued, "for Virginia lacks the sovereign authority to nullify federal law."
Judge Motz noted that under Virginia's theory, "a state could acquire standing to challenge federal law merely by enacting a statute - even an utterly unenforceable one - purporting to prohibit the application of the federal law." Under its theory, Virginia could get into court to defend a law providing that "no Virginia resident shall be required to pay Social Security taxes," Judge Motz observed, adding: "Thus, if we were to adopt Virginia's standing theory, each state could become a roving constitutional watchdog of sorts; no issue, no matter how generalized or quintessentially political, would fall beyond a state's power to litigate in federal court."
In support of the panel's conclusion, Judge Motz cited Supreme Court opinions on standing by a trio of conservative justices: Chief Justices Warren E. Burger and William H. Rehnquist (as an associate justice) along with Justice Antonin Scalia. We'll see how much respect these precedents command on the current Supreme Court.
Of course, even throwing out all the state plaintiffs wouldn't make the health care litigation go away. A number of the lawsuits have private individuals or organizations as plaintiffs, with their own imaginative claims to standing. A Pennsylvania couple, Barbara Goudy-Bachman and Gregory Bachman, succeeded last week in persuading a federal district judge, Christopher C. Conner of Harrisburg, to strike downthe individual mandate; their legal complaint described the federal law as an example of "tyranny in the modern era" that threatened to turn Americans into "mere economic slaves of congressional will." Their claim to standing was that they don't now have health insurance for themselves or their children and don't want to have to get any. The judge found that the individual mandate was unconstitutional, beyond Congress's authority under the Commerce Clause.
I have a confession to make. I can describe the legal arguments and the judicial conclusions, but on a fundamental level, I just don't get the attack on the federal law. I don't understand people who voluntarily, without claiming poverty, let their children go uninsured. I don't understand the moral compass of the owner of the fancy car I saw the other day that sported the bumper sticker: "Repeal Obamacare." I suppose that the self-satisfied and oh-so-secure car owner never met anyone like the healthy 27-year-old man profiled the other day in USA Today who was denied insurance in the private market because his doctor four years ago had ordered a particular heart-monitoring test - which found nothing wrong with his heart. I do know such people. So do you. They are all around you, but maybe such an intimate subject as their inability to get health insurance has never come up in conversation. So as this debate for the soul of the country continues to unfold, I take comfort - perhaps unduly, no doubt prematurely -- from the reminder from the appeals court in Richmond that the Civil War is over and that p.s., the Union won.

        
The Revolution Next Time?
        
Who Stands for Standing?
        
The Terrifying Tigers
        
Lessons Maybe Learned
        
The Future of 'Freedom's Fortress'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE LAW (93%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (92%); SUPREME COURTS (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); STANDING TO SUE (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); JUDGES (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); TRENDS (72%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (71%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (69%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); CONSERVATISM (68%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) federal courts; health care reform; Supreme Court; Virginia; Cuccinelli, Kenneth T II; Obama, Barack; Courts and the Judiciary; Economic Conditions and Trends; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Linda Greenhouse

ORGANIZATION: Supreme Court

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (85%) Cuccinelli, Kenneth T II; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Virginia

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



933 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: What to Expect From the Fed

BYLINE: BINYAMIN APPELBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: Three possible paths that the central bank may pursue in its Wednesday announcement. 

 BODY:
There are three kinds of announcements the Federal Reserve may make Wednesday at 2:15 p.m., when it discloses the much-anticipated results of the latest meeting of its policy-making committee:
Full speed ahead. Growth is lethargic at best. Twenty-five million Americans cannot find full-time jobs. The Fed is responsible for addressing unemployment, it has undertaken a series of novel efforts to stimulate growth, and the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, has not discouraged speculation that he is ready to try again.
Investors are expecting a new effort to reduce long-term interest rates modeled on a 1960s program dubbed "Operation Twist." The central bank has made borrowing cheaper for businesses and consumers by purchasing more than $2 trillion of government debt and mortgage-backed securities. By reducing the supply of securities available to other investors, it forced them to pay higher prices -- that is, to accept lower interest rates -- and to shift money into riskier investments with much the same effect.
The Fed could seek to amplify that impact by reorienting its portfolio toward longer-term securities, essentially taking on more risk without investing more money. That could force other investors, in turn, to take larger risks in the face of lower returns. And the hope is that the resulting drop in interest rates will nudge companies to build new factories, and consumers to buy new dishwashers. 
Morgan Stanley, which expects the Fed to announce such a program Wednesday, said in a note to clients that it is "no silver bullet," but could lower yields on 10-year Treasuries by up to 0.35 percentage points, similar to the drop from the Fed's most recent purchases of $600 billion in Treasuries.
Check back in November. Some close watchers of the central bank expect that the Fed will defer any decision to "Twist" -- or take any other major steps -- until the board next meets in November, but that the board will make a smaller gesture Wednesday to signal its commitment to help.
Only a month has passed since the Fed announced that it intends to hold short-term interest rates near zero for at least two more years, and the board may want to wait before announcing further measures. The economy, after all, is growing at a modest pace and the options that remain available carry less power to lift growth and greater risk of consequences than those already deployed.
Moreover, investors already have driven down long-term interest rates in anticipation of action by the central bank. So long as investors remain convinced that the Fed will act eventually, there is little to be gained by unveiling such a program. Laurence H. Meyer, a former Fed governor who now leads the forecasting firm Macroeconomic Advisers, suggests the Fed could announce that it will invest the proceeds of maturing securities - about $20 billion each month - in longer-term debt.
"Together with a strongly worded statement, this decision could help avoid a significant market sell-off," MacroAdvisers wrote in a note to clients predicting the Fed would announce such a gesture Wednesday, and then announce a revival of "Operation Twist" after the board's November meeting.
We're not doing anything new. Republicans have been increasingly vocal in their insistence that the Fed should stop trying to increase growth. They argue that the central bank's existing efforts are not helping, and that new efforts could have negative consequences. Republican presidential candidates have made criticism of the Fed a central theme of the early campaign, and Republican leaders in the House and Senate sent a letter Tuesday to Mr. Bernanke warning against new measures.
"We have serious concerns that further intervention by the Federal Reserve could exacerbate current problems or further harm the U.S. economy," said the letter, signed by Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Senate Republican leader; Jon Kyl of Arizona, the Senate Republican whip; the House speaker, John Boehner of Ohio; and the House majority leader, Eric Cantor of Virginia.
A vocal minority of the Fed's policy-making board shares this reluctance to take further action. Three of the board's 10 members dissented from the board's most recent effort to foster growth in August.

        
Podcast: Bernanke, the Budget and Steve Jobs
        
How Much More Can the Fed Help the Economy?
        
Making the Cut for Bernanke's News Conference
        
Do You Have a Question for Mr. Bernanke?
        
Bernanke for Early Childhood Education?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (57%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (50%) Ben S. Bernanke; Federal Reserve; Interest Rates; Bernanke, Ben S; United States Economy; Federal Reserve System

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (84%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%) Bernanke, Ben S

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



934 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(At War)

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Echoes of 'Top Gun' at Iraq's Navy Day Ceremonies

BYLINE: MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT


HIGHLIGHT: Last week, I came the closest to a real life "Top Gun" experience than I have ever before. I observed an Iraqi military ceremony that celebrated Navy Day at the Umm Qazr port in southern Iraq. 

 BODY:
 UMM QASR, Iraq - Twenty five years ago, I woke up early on a Saturday morning, watched the movie "Top Gun" and began dreaming of becoming a heroic naval aviator like Tom Cruise's character Maverick.
That career never panned out.
Last week, however, I came the closest to a real life "Top Gun" experience than I have ever before. No, I didn't land a plane on an aircraft carrier. Nor did I get the chance to tour one. I did something far less exciting: I observed an Iraqi military ceremony that celebrated Navy Day at the Umm Qasr port in southern Iraq.
The ceremony was fairly similar to the one in the final scenes of "Top Gun."
In the movie, naval aviators get dressed up in their white uniforms and hats for a ceremony that marks the end of their dog fighting course and a shiny plaque is awarded to the top pilot.
At Navy Day, an admiral in the Iraqi Navy, who wore a white suit and hat just like the aviators in "Top Gun," doled out shiny plaques and trophies to Iraqi and American officials. Despite the thick mustache nearly all Iraqi officers seem to have, the admiral looked like he could have been an extra in the movie.
The similarities between the movie and the ceremony, however, diverged from there.
In the movie, the pilots are dispatched into battle.
When the ceremony I attended was over, we were directed to a hall where we were given a buffet lunch and time to speak with Iraqi and American officials about the Navy's progress. The interviews gave me a chance to learn about the Navy, which has been largely rebuilt since the United States invaded in 2003 and receives far less attention than the Army.
The Army has nearly 200,000 soldiers and covers the entire country's 170,000 square miles of terrain, fight insurgents and protecting Iraq's borders. The Navy has just a few thousand sailors and is in charge of patrolling 35 square nautical miles. Despite its size, the Navy has an important role in ensuring Iraq's future.
About 90 percent of Iraq's budget comes from its sale of oil and the Navy is in charge of protecting the two oil platforms in the Persian Gulf where 75 percent of the country's oil exports are loaded onto tankers.
Like the other branches of the Iraqi military, the Navy has received extensive training from American forces.
I talked to the Iraqi naval officials, who like many other Iraqi military officials I have tried to interview over the past few months, said little of substance.
But Rear Adm. Kelvin N. Dixon, an American commander who has helped train the Iraqi Navy, sat down to talk about the progress the Iraqis have made and was far more forthcoming.
Below are some of Admiral Dixon's comments:
Status of Iraqi Navy and Its Future
"Today they a patrolling and protecting the oil terminals extremely well, better than we anticipated," Admiral Dixon said. "They are doing better than some of their neighbors in the region."
The sailors are staying out on patrols for three to four days compared to just a few hours for their neighbors, he said.
The Iraqis, who currently patrol 80 percent of their waterways, will take over the remaining 20 percent from the Americans in coming weeks.
"Then we will advise them through the end of the year."
The head of the Iraqi Navy, Adm. Ali Hussein Ali, wants to expand the Navy's capabilities in the coming years, Admiral Dixon said.
"He wants to purchase some missile patrol boats and he would like to have a Navy air force with a couple of helicopters and more mine counter capabilities," he said.
Before the end of the year, the Iraqis will begin using a drone aircraft that they purchased from the United States. The drone will provide them with more intelligence capabilities and also alert them if there is an oil leak, Admiral Dixon said.
The Iraqis will also receive several other boats over the coming year that they have purchased through the United States government's foreign military sales program.
Threat of a Suicide Attack on the Terminals
An attack on the oil platforms would be devastating for Iraq because so much of its economy is tied to oil sales.
Nonetheless, Admiral Dixon said that he believed there was a low threat of an attack on the oil terminals because "it is obviously easier to attack a land-based oil facility than a sea-based oil platform."
In fact, there have been several attacks on the land-based oil infrastructure in Iraq this year and no attacks on the platforms.
"We continue to train Iraqi Navy in intelligence areas and operational areas, and nighttime operations of oil platforms. And they continue 24-hour protection of platforms."
Along with the Navy, about 50 Iraqi Marines are stationed on each oil platform to prevent a siege.
Iranian Threats and Run-Ins
Several times a week, the Iranian Navy tries to enter the Iraqi waterways, Admiral Dixon said.
"The Iranians will run out on their boats and test to see how Iraqis respond -- to see what is their response mechanism," he said.
The Iraqis "do the proper hails and escort those craft away from their water space and they have done a phenomenal job at that."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); NAVIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); INTERVIEWS (86%); IRAQ WAR (78%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); BORDER CONTROL (74%); MILITARY VESSELS (72%); NAVAL VESSELS (72%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (60%) Defense and Military Forces; Iraq War (2003- ); Iraq; Baghdad Bureau

PERSON: TOM CRUISE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) INDIAN OCEAN (79%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



935 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Nicholas D. Kristof)

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 3827 words

HEADLINE: An Interview With Mahmoud Ahmadinejad

BYLINE: NICHOLAS KRISTOF


HIGHLIGHT: President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran speaks with New York Times columnist Nicholas Kristof. 

 BODY:
The following is a transcript of my conversation with President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran. The interview was conducted in New York City on September 20, 2011.
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad: In the name of God the most gracious the most merciful I would like to, with your permission, greet all of your readers as well as web viewers and wish all of them the success and blessings of the almighty. As you are well aware the American citizens trespassed our borders illegally, according to which we undertook proper prosecution through the proper channels in the judiciary. There have been efforts to free them. And I do believe that all governments do have quite deep punishments for illegal trespassing of their sovereign borders. And we have undertaken efforts to, God willing, free them as soon as possible and it will happen, God willing.
M.A.: No there have been no issues to speak of. I said on Sept. 13 that they would be freed in a matter of a few days and it turns into a few days, which we're still going through those few days. But I was quoted as saying "a couple of days." It's a legal process that we must go through.
M.A.: Right within that time frame. In a matter of a few days they will be freed. 
M.A.: Who did you hear that from sir? 
M.A.: Yes this is a historic takeaway for us. Many times there have been conversations and agreements, and results were not seen. Tangible results. That alone perhaps is a reason why Doctor Abbasi would be disappointed. We did, I'm sure you do recall, help such talks, but that was turned into a political chance for the western powers. If they give us the 20% enriched uranium this very week, we will cease the domestic enrichment of uranium of up to 20 percent this very week. We only want the 20% enrichment for our domestic consumption. If they give it to us according to international law, according to IAEA laws, without preconditions, we will cease domestic enrichment. This is not something we wish to produce and sell on the open market. 20% enriched uranium, as you know, is not useful for much of anything other than the production of cancer treatment medication. It is not useful for a power plant. 
M.A.: According to the charter of the IAEA we can undertake such activities but must let the agency know 6 months before the start of enrichment. In the facilities around the holy city of Qom we let the agency know 18 months prior to the start of the enrichment, so in reality what laws have we broken? Unfortunately political pressures exerted onto the IAEA have derailed its core mission. According to the law, again, we were obliged to let them know 6 months ahead of the start of enrichment, but we let them know 18 months ahead of time. So we have done nothing wrong. But, under pressures of the United States government and other governments, they succumb to these political pressures. If they would move according to the laws, we would have no issues, we would have no challenges. All of our facilities have been transparent, continue to be transparent, all of them are open to the IAEA inspectors and have also IAEA cameras installed in them for continuous monitoring. 
M.A.: Yes, yes, we've said this before. We've said this many times. This is nothing new.
M.A.: When were there differing positions? When did we speak with anything other than a united voice? There were no differences of opinion. Again, if they give us 20 percent enriched uranium, according to IAEA norms, they must give us the fuel and receive proper compensation for it. Anything outside of this framework is illegal. Again the 20 percent enriched uranium other than to be used in the reactor which produces cancer treatment medication is not useful for anything else. It cannot be used for the production of energy and it must be stored in a very sensitive and expensive facility. It has no other use. Twenty percent enriched uranium must be either used for medical purposes for which we set up a reactor and there is only we have only been able to produce 10 kilograms. If they were willing to sell us the 20 percent enriched uranium we would have preferred to buy it. It would have been far less expensive. It's as though you wish to purchase a vehicle for yourself. No one is willing to sell it to you, then you must set up your own production line to produce your own vehicle. Which way is more comfortable and less expensive for you? We were forced to set up a factory for a very small quantity. And this is not the type of merchandise or good that we can take to the open market and sell and make a profit on. For each reactor we must make a custom order. 
M.A.: We have even accepted this. Even though it was a precondition and illegal at its foundation. We were willing to exchange, swap the fuel, in Brazil or Turkey, but the United States government well what can I say? It is the United States government. 
M.A.: It did not really damage at any level. These types of things do not damage Iran. We have software specialists and program specialists that are very experienced. No one can really disable Iran with an Internet virus.
M.A.: We always keep an open mind. We have always been open. We voluntarily shut down our facilities for 2.5 years and we voluntarily executed all of the requirements and implemented. But unfortunately instead of an easing of foundation-less accusations there was an increase in these accusations. So we decided to go back to the letter of the law. No more, no less. Of course we are ready for cooperation. We have always been ready and willing to cooperate and start a dialogue. Let's have a dialogue. Let's have mutual enrichment, multilateral enrichment. But unfortunately it's the United States government. They tend to act unilaterally and force parties to do things and unfortunately we do not react too well to forceful situations but if we go back to the spirit and the letter of the laws and fairness and justice for all we will overcome most of the challenges. An entity that has 5,000-7,000 nuclear weapons in her arsenal is that entity in a position to tell others not to obtain nuclear weapons? Is this fair? But that's not even our intention. We wish to use it for peaceful purposes. They tell us you cannot even do that. Whereas they have used it before for war. This is unfair, this is unjust, this is not going to yield results. Those days are gone, those thoughts, those behaviors, can no longer solve the world's issues. The behavior must change. A behavior modification must be brought about. By accusing Iran, America will not be able to fix her financial and economic problems. American politicians are always hard at work in order to create an external enemy or external evil in order to alleviate problems at home. But allow me to ask you: Is Iran really responsible for the health care challenges, financial challenges, housing and mortgage challenges in the U.S.? High rate of unemployment? Decreasing the quality of education? Is really the Iranian enrichment responsible for all of these domestic challenges? So if we resolve the Iranian uranium enrichment challenges all of these problems in Iran will go away? So the only impediment to democracy and stability and security around the world is Iran? If we did not have enrichment in Iran there would be no problems in Iraq and Afghanistan? These are propaganda campaigns and they're used to it. They've always been like this. They make a lot of noise. They should think of behavior modification and all problems shall be solved. 
M.A.: Well we were quite hopeful to see some tangible differences. We were looking forward to seeing such differences. Mr. Obama promised change at every level. Deep changes. Many have been left disappointed. We are hopeful that it will take place. Dialogue has certain conditions. It has certain natural frameworks of justice, of mutual respect, of pure intent, and of friendship, and partnership. We cannot hold a stick over someone's head and force them into dialogue. This is not the spirit of dialogue and cooperation or negotiation. Officially Mr. Obama said that we wish to handicap Iran through embargoes. Trade embargoes. These were not presidential words. Even though the people of Iran are a great people, Iran is a great nation. And as she has, she will continue to live without the United States She can continue to live without the United States. But for a nation like the United States of America, it is not presidential for its chief to speak in such terms. He could have said "I wish to open a dialogue with Iran under a mutually respectful conditions." We have no problems. We have said it since a long time ago. Under proper, respectful, just fair conditions, we will sit down and open a dialogue. And I repeat the same, it's true today. It wasn't us that had problems with the United States of America. There was a unilateral cessation of diplomatic relations started by the United States of America. It wasn't us. Have we ever tried to come to the United States to carry out a coup d'etat? Have we ever occupied countries bordering the United States militarily? Have we ever threatened military action against the United States? We never have. The various governments of the United Sates throughout time have occupied lands bordering our nation, endangering our security, putting us under sanctions, meddling in our internal affairs, showing animosity. Why? What have the Iranian people done to you? What has the Iranian government done to you? Nothing. We had a revolution to free ourselves. And we did. Prior to our freedom, in result of the revolution, a violent dictatorship that was supported by the United States was against the people of Iran. But from the day in which people in Iran gained control of their destiny, following the revolution, we have been brushed aside. Why? Today, the government of the United States says "I stand for democracy." Why is it that you're against a democratic country like the Islamic Republic of Iran? There is no advantage in this for them. Being friends with Iran is to their benefit. But friendship has a specific framework. You cannot hold a weapon onto somebody's face forcing them into your version of friendship. That will not work. They say "we will pressure Iran into a dialogue or negotiations." How? This is not friendly. And it will never yield results. Iran is a great nation. It has a rich history going back thousands of years. A great people. They will not surrender so easily. 
M.A.: I am not saying that everyone doesn't bear a certain responsibility but I ask you: If a hiker runs through a red light, because he or she is a hiker, the police will forgive them and not issue a citation? If a hiker breaks the laws because he or she is a hiker, then the law will forgive? There have been in every country illegal trespass of the borders of a sovereign nation is a crime. Does the United States government allow Iranian citizens to trespass her borders and enter illegally by boat through a body of water will they allow such a thing? If they trespass and infiltrate the United States or enter illegally, then we can say, well perhaps they were just engaging in a boat race and they did not intend to do so. Would this be acceptable to the U.S.? No! These talks of democracy and human rights, this is something on the world's scale. No one is in a position to impose their standards or versions on anyone else. If there is an agreement to be reached, we must sit at the table of conversation and reach a mutually beneficial path. Who says that democracy is stronger in the United States then it is in Iran? Who has said that? Really in the United States people are sovereign? Really are the people willing to spend their hard-earned dollars in Afghanistan and Iraq rather than being spent on themselves? Are they willing to lose their sons and daughters in foreign lands for unclear purposes rather than receive those funds for education and health care? When they're unhappy it shows that they are not in control of their destiny. They do not get the right to choose. So when the will of the people does not prevail, it shows that they do not directly participate. So it's the political parties that are in control here. 
M.A.: Vis a vis democracy, there must be a formula, a model that must be reached that can be duplicated across the globe. As far as the voice of the people, Iran is much farther ahead compared to the United States. I was a teacher; I was chosen. I was elected by the people and I was not a member of any party. Now-I ask you, in the United States a presidential candidate that does not belong to one of the two main parties-can he or she be elected? No! Can you fit 300 plus million people in two parties, Republican and Democrat? No. But the official members of both parties probably do not surpass half a million. But as far as democracy there must be an informed dialogue. No one can enforce their will-their version of democracy on anyone else-with force, with weapons. And no one can reach that same goal by accusations, by empty accusations. The same goes for human rights. We must all sit and try to reach a mutually beneficial goal. Acceptable goals, ethical goals. The United States government is always seeking to impose her formula, her will, on everyone else. It will not work. Even if NATO comes into the scene alongside the U.S., they will not succeed. Do you think in Afghanistan human rights are being practiced? Security is no longer an issue? Everyone is happy in Afghanistan today? Is there stability? No! Is it the same in Iraq? Absolutely not! So the behavior-the path they've chosen-was wrong and is wrong. Everyone, all of the world, together, in unison, must sit and reach these conclusions. No one can see themselves only as the speaker for the whole-of humanity. There are only 300 plus million people in the United States, and many subject matter experts and philosophers and scientists in the rest of the world as well, everyone must help in giving shape to a formula that's acceptable to everyone. Only in that case will there no longer be unfounded accusations. We are ready to actively participate. We don't say the word "complete" and have no challenges or issues. we've never said that. Nor do we believe that. but we're not the only ones who have issues. The United States has many more compared to us. So does Europe. Everyone does. Show me one place that has completely and has a spotless record of observing human rights and democracy. In the United States over 30,000 people a year are murdered. Each day 30 people across the United States are killed by police. These numbers have meanings. I'm not trying to accuse or convict the police across the United States but it shows that there is a fundamental underlying issue. We must identify that issue. Accusing everyone without solid foundations and proof will not solve anyone's issues.
M.A.: Syria is just like any other country. We have said that they must sit at the table of dialogue with mutual understanding and respect and resolve their issues. Fairness, freedom and respect is the right of all people. With clashes and confrontations problems will not be solved. They will be multiplied. Differences will be multiplied and magnified. And certainly foreigners must not intervene. Intervention of foreigners will only make the problem that much bigger, and will never solve it.
M.A.: In Iran things were quite different, and are quite different. In total there were 33 lives lost. More than 2/3 of those killed belonged to the security forces and innocent bystanders. Less than 1/3 were those who clashed with the security/police forces. So they were a very very small minority.
M.A.: It was incredibly sad, due to many reasons. First we have proof that that scene was staged, and she was killed later, at a later point. This footage was shown for the first time by BBC. Our security officers and officials had no information of such a thing. but if BBC makes the complete footage from beginning to end available to us, we will analyze it, we will research it because we do search for those who are truly guilty of murdering this young lady. And also, a scene fairly close to this-almost a photocopy I would say-was repeated previously in a South American country-in a Latin American country. this is not a new scene. And they previously tell those who are due to participate, they tell them that "you will be participating in making a short footage, a short movie, a short clip." After their participation is finished they take them to some place and they kill them. If BBC is willing to broadcast this film, this footage in its entirety, any viewer would be able to distinguish whether it is as we say or it is as they maintain.
M.A.: If you want to politicize the issue of human rights it will never be resolved. It is not a political achievement; it is a human achievement. Do you even know the group that you name? Do you know their makeup? Are they a religious group? A truly faithful group? Or a political group? Or an intelligence security group? Let's make sure they are all named? Let's make sure they all come forward. Let's see their true makeup. In the United States is everyone free to do as they wish? There are no laws to respect? If anyone breaks the law will they not be put in front of the judiciary? In Iran there are laws. There are judges. There is an independent judiciary who is not under my control. The judge hails from the government. But the government cannot say or maintain or expect to exert influence on the judge and the judiciary. They adhere to the letter of the law. Because we adhere to the law we do not intervene in the judiciary's affairs. Perhaps we can reach the conclusion that at some point in time a certain judge has reached the wrong conclusion or passed the wrong verdict. Does this never happen in the United States of America? Does this never happen anywhere else? Yes, we're all human beings and human beings make mistakes. But can anyone say that in the United States judges do not vote politically? Out of political inclination? Yes, here the government can exert pressure on judges. But in Iran, there is no such possibility because the judiciary is completely independent from the rest of the government. And as far as the two Americans are concerned, we requested that of the judiciary. We requested that they be set free. We requested their forgiveness or a reduction in their penalty but they're free not to accept my request. I cannot command them to do so. 
M.A.: Have you seen Iran sir?
M.A.: How many times?
M.A.: This Thursday I traveled to one of the provinces. I walked through the streets for many hours in the middle of my people. Most of them were made up of the youth. What you say is not really tangible; it's not a reality. Iran is a nation. They may have differences of opinion, they may have criticisms between one another, based on different opinions, but they all love their country, they all work hard for their country. I think the picture, the framework that you have in your mind based on that, one can reach the wrong conclusion. Perhaps a group may not like me. They're free to feel that way. They have every right to feel that way. I cannot make everyone like me, or back me, or support me. We respect all of them. And we serve all of them. Now after we implemented the cessation of the social welfare programs, which encompassed every segment of the population, there were those who were for it and there were those who were against this policy. So what you're talking about exists everywhere. Is every American happy of life in the United States. as it is today? No. If you allow them to come and speak their mind, what would they? They would speak against the United States congress, they would speak against their state governments, their local governments, their judiciaries, and so on. So judgments must be toned down and based in reality.
M.A.: So are you suggesting that we get closer to the west?
M.A.: Why?
M.A.: What you say sounds really good and I do agree with you. World peace is only achieved through participation of all parties involved. Everyone must have a share and help. But when it comes to national interests challenges are much more numerous in the west. Does Iran face more problems or Europe? Does Iran face more problems or the United States of America? I believe that in the next 20 years God willing that Iran will be a very advanced country, with great achievements and great scientific achievements. And because they will feel that they have to protect their own interests the west will also seek a rapprochement with Iran. allow me to remind you of this: the United States and her allies have put Iran under sanctions. And they have named it "crippling sanctions." And they did their best. I will testify to this. I will attest to the fact that they did their best. So let no one believe that the sanctions did not work well. They worked well. But is today the Iranian economy facing a deeper crisis or is the United States economy facing a deeper crisis. Where are the crises? The United States government that was the principal enactor of the sanctions against Iran is suffering the depth of the economic collapse that you see her. so it clearly shows that we must change our lens, we must change our mindset, the situation is not always as we wish it to be. we must also accept it with its reality. Perhaps I can sit and draw a picture of the United States as I want it to be but seldom does reality make itself according to my portrayal. Only at a time when my portrayal is an accurate portrayal will it fit in the same mold and the same thing goes for Iran. Perhaps in our mind we have a certain picture that we would like to draw, it will not necessarily be true. Iran is a great nation. It's been living her life, serving its people, but you see the world has changed. The dynamics and international relations have changed. Everyone wants legitimacy. Everyone-rights must be respected-we must all join hands. And no one is boss. Let's remember: no one is master and no is a slave. We truly like and love the people of the United States like people from any other country. We love all people. And we do wish security, success and stability for every person, throughout the world. We believe that success and stability and security will only be achieved through mutually respectful and sincere collaboration which we've always been ready for. I wish you success as well sir.
M.A.: You asked very good questions. Thank you very much. We have a lot of freedoms in Iran. I do not believe that you can gain this easy of an access and speak so easily, so at ease, with the president of the United States but you can do that with the Iranian president. This is one of the one of the differences between our two countries. 
END. 

        
Iran's Crossroads
        
The Hikers in Iran: One Year Later
        
Answering Your Iran Questions
        
Questions About Iran? Ask a Witness.
        
Iran: Helping Tweets Stand Up to Bullets

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL TRESPASS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); TRANSCRIPTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (76%); CANCER (64%); CONSUMPTION (62%); POWER PLANTS (60%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (60%) Ahmadinejad; Iran

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); QOM, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



936 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Views of Perry Turn More Negative Since First Debate

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: Rick Perry's poll numbers among the general electorate have dropped since his first appearance in a Republican presidential candidates' debate on Sept. 7. 

 BODY:
Whether Mitt Romney has gained ground on Rick Perry in the Republican primary race is questionable. Polls released since Mr. Perry's first debate on Sept. 7 show him leading Mr. Romney by an average of 8 percentage points. By contrast, Mr. Perry led Mr. Romney by 11 points in polls released between the announcement of his candidacy on Aug. 13 and the Sept. 7 debate.
There is some clearer evidence, however, that Mr. Perry's numbers have worsened some among general election voters.
First, we can look at Mr. Perry's favorability ratings among the broader electorate. 
Three polling firms asked voters for their views of Mr. Perry between the announcement of his candidacy and that first debate. In those surveys, views on Mr. Perry were equally divided. An average of 29 percent of Americans said they had a positive view of him and 29 percent a negative view, with the remaining 42 percent not yet knowing him sufficiently well or not yet having formulated a firm opinion.
Mr. Perry's numbers have been in net-negative territory in four polls released since the first debate, however. On average, 27 percent of respondents held a positive view of Mr. Perry in these polls, while 38 percent held a negative one.
Although few of these pollsters provided a partisan breakdown of their results, Mr. Perry's numbers do not appear to have declined appreciably among Republicans. So one can infer that the movement has probably been caused by independent voters and Democrats.
The trend of the past few weeks may or may not be indicative of their future trajectory. Nevertheless, of voters who have formed an opinion of Mr. Perry so far, almost 60 percent in post-debate polling hold a negative view. 
Mr. Perry's numbers have also worsened slightly in head-to-head match-ups against President Obama. 
Surveys released between the announcement of his campaign and the first debate had Mr. Perry trailing Mr. Obama 43 percent to 46 percent on average, with a couple of the polls actually giving him a slight lead.
Mr. Perry has trailed Mr. Obama by an average of 42 percent to 49 percent in surveys released since the debate, however. 
Polls of horse-race match-ups can often underestimate the standing of candidates with poor or middling name recognition -- one of a number of reasons that the White House shouldn't feel terribly excited about these numbers.
Still, that Mr. Perry's numbers have gotten worse as he has become better known -- and as Mr. Obama's approval ratings have been low and steady at best -- is a poor sign for his campaign. 
Moreover, these name-recognition effects usually manifest themselves in lower support for the challenger rather than higher support for the incumbent (voters may say they are undecided if they are not yet sufficiently familiar with a candidate, even if they are likely to support him eventually). But in four of the seven head-to-head polls released since the first debate, Mr. Obama has gotten 50 percent of the vote or more in the hypothetical match-up against Mr. Perry, meaning that the effects cannot be accounted for by undecided voters alone.
It seems possible that if Mr. Perry is the nominee and if economic performance continues to be sluggish, we could wind up with an incumbent president whose disapproval rating is at or above 50 percent matched up against a Republican opponent whose unfavorable rating is also in the 50s. There's not a lot of historical guidance on what might happen between this proverbial rock and hard place.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TRENDS (74%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (67%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (93%); MITT ROMNEY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011



937 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: With Help From Friends, Folk Art Museum Will Stay Open

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
The quilts will live to see another day.
Having seriously weighed dissolving and transferring its collections to another institution because of financial problems, the American Folk Art Museum on Wednesday evening decided to continue operating at its current location at Lincoln Square in Manhattan with the help of financial infusions from trustees and the Ford Foundation. 
''We are confident that we're embarking on a prudent course with the facilities that we have and the staff that we have,'' Edward Blanchard, who was elected the museum's new president on Wednesday, said in an interview. ''I think we're going to do some very exciting things.''
Mr. Blanchard declined to specify the dollar amount of the donations that appear to have saved the day.
The museum had come to a sorry pass, having defaulted on its construction bonds and moved into its old, smaller space near Lincoln Center. It sold its building on West 53rd Street to the Museum of Modern Art to pay off its debt; it has been closed since July. The museum's staff, once at 50, is down to a dozen, and its budget is $7 million, down from $10 million in 2009.
The building on 53rd Street opened in 2001 after a renovation by Billie Tsien and Tod Williams. To finance the construction, the museum borrowed $32 million by issuing bonds through the city's Trust for Cultural Resources, a public benefit corporation that helps cultural institutions borrow money for capital projects. The debt payments on the bonds were significant, about $3 million a year, and in 2009, the museum defaulted on the debt, the first institution that borrowed through the trust to do so.
In a struggle made worse by the recession, the museum was unable to attract the crowds it had expected or the wealthy contributors it needed. Last year, as it ran a nearly $4 million deficit, the museum raised just $3.3 million from donors. Before the new building opened, consultants predicted it would draw 255,000 visitors a year by 2005. But this year, the museum, in its two locations, is drawing 160,000 a year.
At its board meeting on Wednesday, the trustees of the museum, which had considered closing and transferring its collection to the Smithsonian Institution, created a strategy to increase its visibility and to extend its brand instead. In addition, the museum will try to expand its loans to other New York City museums and to mount traveling exhibitions.
The Brooklyn Museum, the New-York Historical Society and the Museum of Art and Design have expressed interest in working with the Folk Art Museum to identify potential collaborations, museum officials said.
''We're still working out what the budgetary implications are,'' Mr. Blanchard said. ''We are determined to use this crisis we have just been through -- and I think are coming out of -- to stimulate us to do things in creative and innovative ways.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); BONDS (88%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); HISTORY (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); BRANDING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



938 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Slavery Becomes a Personal Question Online

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
Do you know how many slaves work on your behalf?
While many people may assume the answer to that provocative and unsettling question is zero, the creators of a new Web site want to demonstrate how forced labor, especially overseas, is tantamount to slavery.
A nonprofit group, with funding from the State Department, will unveil the new site, www.slaveryfootprint.org, on Thursday in an effort to show that forced laborers are tied to all kinds of everyday products, from electronics and jewelry to the shirt on your back. 
Ideally, they hope to get consumers engaged enough in the issue to do something about it, primarily hoping people demand that companies carefully audit supply chains to ensure, as best as they can determine, that no ''slave labor'' was used to manufacture its products.
''What we are trying to do is make it so it's not just someone else's business, it's everyone's business,'' said Luis CdeBaca, ambassador at large for the State Department's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons. ''There's a horror about it when they figure out what is going on.''
The slavery footprint is a twist on the more commonly known carbon footprint, and the new site tries to point out areas of a consumer's life where the organization believes slavery is most likely used to manufacture products.
Slavery Footprint defines a slave as ''anyone who is forced to work without pay, being economically exploited and is unable to walk away.'' The State Department estimates that there are 27 million slaves globally. The Web site steers users through a set of prompts, where they can define where they live, the type of dwelling they live in, how many children they have, how many cars they use, what they eat and what types of things they have bought.
Sprinkled throughout are grim notations about slave labor and human trafficking, like this one: ''In China, soccer ball manufacturers work up to 21 hours in a day, for a month straight. Even the toughest American coaches wouldn't ask that from their squads.''
Or this claim: ''Every day tens of thousands of American women buy makeup. Every day tens of thousands of Indian children mine mica, which is the little sparkles in the makeup.''
The site also asks users how many times they have paid for sex. While there is no way to answer, the site notes that people who pay for sex contribute to the demand for sexual trafficking.
The Web site offers a numerical score of how many slaves users have working on their behalf; the average is 55.
The site was created by the Fair Trade Fund, a California-based nonprofit group that uses media to promote advocacy on issues, particularly human slavery. Among its projects are ''Call + Response,'' a film on the slave trade, and chainstorereaction.com, a Web site that encourages consumers to send electronic letters to companies challenging them to define their policies on human trafficking.
The companies' responses, or lack thereof, are posted on the Web site.
Based on the movie and the Web site, the State Department sought out the Fair Trade Fund to create the Slavery Footprint site and provided it with a $200,000 grant.
Justin Dillon, 42, the organization's chief executive, said the Slavery Footprint site did not make specific companies its targets. Instead, it shows consumers which products they use are most likely to involve forced labor.
He said a mobile application would allow consumers to find information on products at the point of purchase, and send companies electronic letters asking about their policies on slave labor. Those letters will also be sent to all of the consumers' Facebook friends, in the hopes of applying consumer pressure for changes in practices. ''Really the goal is to amplify the conversation between the consumer and the producer,'' Mr. Dillon said. ''Our torches and pitchforks are out for the slave traders, not the multinationals.''
Ideally, he said companies would hire third-party auditors to determine if their supply chains were employing slave labor.
The Slavery Footprint application is being started nearly a year after California passed a law that requires companies with global sales in excess of $100 million who do business in the state to disclose what efforts they have made to eliminate forced labor from their supply chains.
Some business groups opposed the measure, saying it unfairly tagged companies for ''failing'' on an issue they were powerless to change.
On Wednesday, a spokesman for the United States Chamber of Commerce said he would not comment because officials at the organization had not yet seen the Slavery Footprint Web site. Mr. CdeBaca said the new grant recognized the need to encourage consumers to put pressure on the marketplace.
''Without some kind of demand, the traffickers wouldn't be rushing to meet that through coercion and threats,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Textile workers and union supporters protested labor conditions in the fashion industry in August in Sao Paulo, Brazil. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHEL FILHO/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SLAVERY (90%); LABOR TRAFFICKING (89%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (89%); CHILD TRAFFICKING (89%); WEB SITES (89%); SEX TRAFFICKING (87%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (66%); CHILDREN (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



939 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; CURRENTS EVENTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: Green Houses Grow on the National Mall

BYLINE: By FRED A. BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
Free for dinner in Washington? Nineteen groups of architecture students will be serving meals next week at houses they have built in West Potomac Park, adjacent to the National Mall, as part of the Department of Energy's biennial Solar Decathlon, a kind of ''America's Got Talent'' for green architecture. The ambience at their dinner parties is one of 10 areas the students will be rated on. Others include market appeal, design, adequacy of hot water and affordability (a category added after a $2 million house from Germany won the 2009 competition). 
Fifteen of the teams are from the United States, including one from three schools -- Parsons the New School for Design, the Stevens Institute of Technology, and the Milano School of International Affairs, Management and Urban Policy, also at the New School. Designed by students with the help of Professors Laura Briggs and David Lewis at Parsons (who is also a principal in the Manhattan architecture firm Lewis Tsurumaki & Lewis), as well as many other faculty members at the schools, the so-called Empowerhouse, pictured, will become part of a duplex in the low-income Deanwood section of Washington, under the auspices of Habitat for Humanity.
The houses will be open Friday through Oct. 2. Visitors can expect long lines, given the compactness of the houses and the intense interest among advocates of energy conservation. In 2009, there were more than 300,000 visitors over 10 days, said Richard King, director of the event. Because the German team didn't enter this year, he added, ''it's a wide-open competition.'' Information: solardecathlon.gov.
Correction: September 29, 2011, Thursday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Thursday about a competition in which students built ''green'' houses on the National Mall omitted the name of one of the schools that built the Empowerhouse entry. The Milano School of International Affairs, Management and Urban Policy at the New School was involved, along with Parsons the New School for Design and the Stevens Institute of Technology. The article also referred incompletely to advisers for the Empowerhouse entry. A number of faculty members at the schools helped, not just Profs. Laura Briggs and David Lewis at Parsons.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 29, 2011

 CORRECTION:
An article last Thursday about a competition in which students built ''green'' houses on the National Mall omitted the name of one of the schools that built the Empowerhouse entry. The Milano School of International Affairs, Management and Urban Policy at the New School was involved, along with Parsons the New School for Design and the Stevens Institute of Technology. The article also referred incompletely to advisers for the Empowerhouse entry. A number of faculty members at the schools helped, not just Profs. Laura Briggs and David Lewis at Parsons.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY VASILIS KYRIACOU) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); GREEN BUILDING (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); VOLUNTEER HOUSE BUILDING & REPAIR (73%); TRACK & FIELD (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%)

ORGANIZATION: HABITAT FOR HUMANITY INTERNATIONAL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2011



940 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; NOTICED; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: Want More Information? Just Scan Me

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
DURING New York Fashion Week earlier this month, Quick Response (QR) codes -- square, checkered symbols that can be scanned with one's smartphone -- were as omnipresent as chunky black booties.
They were on cookies doled out by Tiffany that, when scanned, revealed an invitation to a concert with Leighton Meester. They were on a pink Barbie-themed bus, and on doll displays in stores that could be scanned for a chance to win designer clothes. And they were on postcards for a ''fashion hunt'' with the Madison Avenue Business Improvement District and the blog Madison Avenue Spy.
Weeks earlier, a model walked a runway in Barcelona with a QR code emblazoned on the bodice of her Frans Baviera gown; meanwhile, a company called Skanz began selling silicone bracelets embellished with QR codes that enable anyone with a smartphone to scan your wrist and instantly access a Web page with your contact information, social media links, even favorite photos and videos.
In other words: you've become a human hyperlink. 
When Skanz doled out bracelets to attendees of Consumer Electronics Week this summer, ''nobody exchanged business cards,'' said Tammy Lewis, chief marketing officer of the Tarrytown, N.Y., based QR Media Group, which owns Skanz. ''Instead they were scanning each other to exchange their personal information.''
She noted that this is also handy when meeting prospective dates in bars. After all, why scrawl your number on a napkin or tap it into a stranger's phone when all you have to do is lean in and whisper, ''Scan me.''
For the uninitiated: QR codes are a type of barcode that can store more information than the vertical zebra-stripe variety familiar from supermarkets. When scanned, a QR code can quickly pull up a Web page, text or geographic coordinates. As the smartphone market expanded, so did the codes.
Now retailers, publishers, arts institutions, musicians, government organizations and charities are increasingly using QR codes in their advertising to direct consumers to online contests, games, cocktail recipes (for Pisco Porton liquor, to name one), book excerpts (like Glen Duncan's ''Last Werewolf''), performances (including those at the Brooklyn Academy of Music), even how-to videos. At Macy's, a QR code that points consumers to a smoky-eye makeup lesson by Bobbi Brown has been an unexpected hit.
''The business went through the roof,'' Martine Reardon, executive vice president of marketing for Macy's, said of Ms. Brown's high-tech marketing experiment. ''Her success at Macy's has a lot to do with that QR video.''
Mike Wehrs, the president and chief executive of Scanbuy, a leading player in the QR industry that has worked with retailers, including Macy's, Bloomingdale's, Gap, Home Depot and Staples, said that between the third and fourth quarters of 2010, scan rates doubled and have continued to accelerate since. ''In July we crossed over to doing more than one scan every second,'' he said. ''It's just becoming more and more pervasive everywhere you look.''
At the Museum of Modern Art, the ''Talk to Me'' exhibition includes examples of QR design -- like a huge code covering the facade of a Tokyo building-- and marks the first time the museum has put the codes on labels for every object in an exhibition. Starbucks recently used QR codes in a digital scavenger hunt to promote Lady Gaga's latest album, while HBO used the codes in a commercial for its hit series ''True Blood.'' The design company SET created a red code in the shape of a cross that, in the aftermath of the earthquake in Japan, directed people to a donation page for the American Red Cross. The United States Army is beginning to put QR codes in the windows of recruiting centers so applicants can procure information even if a center is closed. And the Department of Transportation and the Environmental Protection Agency have announced that every 2013 vehicle in dealer showrooms will be required to have QR-coded fuel economy labels.
Many people, however, ignore the codes. So far, QR codes are mainly scanned by men (60.5 percent of QR code scanners) with a household income of $100,000 or more, according to comScore, which first began measuring QR scanning in May. Scanning requires a smartphone -- and often patience. If your phone does not have a built-in QR code reader, you can download a free one, like RedLaser, ScanLife, Barcode Scanner, Shop Savvy or i-Nigma. (Caution: some code readers work better with certain devices. For instance, BlackBerry users may have greater success with i-Nigma and ScanLife.) These apps read most QR codes when you hold your phone over them and press a button (usually the same button used to take a photograph). But every so often they don't work. Maybe it's because your hands are shaking. Maybe it's too dark. Or maybe you're trying to scan a code created by Microsoft or AT&T, which can be read only when scanned with their own apps. That means downloading yet more apps.
Created in Japan in the 1990s, QR codes connect the physical and online worlds. For instance, at Liberty View Farm in Highland, N.Y., QR codes displayed among the vegetables enable visitors to learn more about farming as they tour the grounds. And in Central Park last year on Arbor Day weekend, parkgoers who scanned QR codes on signs were able to call up vistas from the 1800s and watch video clips of park scenes from ''Sex and the City.'' At Best Buy, scanning a QR code lets shoppers get details about electronics without having to wait for a sales clerk. In magazines, QR codes on advertisements for the new ABC television series ''Pan Am'' connect viewers to video teasers.
Macy's executives, who plan to use QR codes this Christmas shopping season, consider them an integral part of future marketing strategies because, as anyone walking down the street can observe, people are becoming more and more attached to their smartphones.
''Sometimes I'll run out of the house with two different shoes on but I never, ever forget that mobile device,'' Ms. Reardon said.
For Mattel, Fashion's Night Out was the company's first major foray into QR technology. ''It was an opportunity for us to engage fans on the go,'' said Stephanie Cota, senior vice president of global marketing for girls' brands at Mattel. QR scans during the shopping event were ''well into the high hundreds,'' she said. ''Overall, the response rate was pretty phenomenal.''
And social media can increase the impact of the technology exponentially. Available in different widths and colors, each Skanz QR bracelet is connected to a personalized Skanzsite, filled with the wearer's contact information, photos, videos, favorite things and links to social media pages like Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, YouTube, Tumblr, Google+ and Flickr. Let's say you buy a Skanz bracelet online ($9.99). When you receive it, you go to Skanz.com and create a personal profile page, enter the serial number on the bracelet, and voila -- your page and your bracelet are now linked.
You can also create different Skanzsites and bracelets for professional and personal use. And if you don't want a bracelet, there are iPhone 4 cases with QR codes on them ($19.99 to $24.99) and QR decals ($5) that you can stick on an address book or an ID card.
Other brands, like Jumpscan, don't sell QR accessories but they enable you to create your own QR code and Web page free. You can then store your code in your phone and pull it up whenever you want someone to learn more about you.
It could be a conversationalist's nightmare, but a multi-tasker's dream. As Ms. Lewis of the QR Media Group put it: ''Who has time to give out all of that information?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: READ ONLY: A smartphone user can scan the QR code on a Skanz bracelet and see select personal information.(E1)
UNIVERSAL: From top: A still photo from a video of a code on a Tokyo building, part of the ''Talk to Me'' exhibition at MoMA (scanning the code at the building provided information and allowed interaction with occupants)
a Frans Baviera dress with a code on the bodice
a code used to facilitate donations to the Red Cross in Japan
 and Mattel's Barbie-themed bus, which bore a code that could be scanned during Fashion's Night Out. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MIQUEL BENITEZ/WIREIMAGE (MODEL), ALEXANDER REEDER (BUILDING VIDEO), DIANE BONDAREFF/ ASSOCIATED PRESS (MATTEL BUS) )(E2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); FASHION SHOWS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); FASHION DESIGN (90%); SMARTPHONES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FILM (87%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); MUSIC (76%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (70%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (61%)

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (86%)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (86%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (86%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (59%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); SPAIN (79%); JAPAN (77%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



941 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: 'Time Is Running Out,' I.M.F. Warns on Global Economy

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In a regular report on global financial stability, the International Monetary Fund said Wednesday that the global financial system is more vulnerable now than at any point since the 2008 financial crisis. 
Risks to banks and financial markets have increased in recent months, the global lending organization said. The European debt crisis is affecting its banking system to the point where banks may pull back on lending to conserve cash, which threatens to worsen growth in the region.
Meanwhile, there were growing doubts that the United States lawmakers could forge the political consensus needed to reduce its growing budget deficits. Rising deficits were a key reason Standard & Poor's downgraded long-term American debt last month.
European leaders should quickly implement an agreement reached in July that provides the region's bailout fund with more flexibility, while the United States and Japan must phase in steps to reduce their deficits, the I.M.F. said.
''Risks are elevated, and time is running out to tackle vulnerabilities that threaten the global financial system and the ongoing economic recovery,'' the group said.
The report is the second warning from fund in as many days. On Tuesday, the I.M.F. sharply cut its growth forecasts for the global economy, the United States and Europe for this year and 2012.
The 187-member group is holding its annual meeting at the end of this week in Washington. The meeting brings together finance ministers and central bankers from around the world.
The I.M.F. has been stepping up its pressure on Europe to resolve its financial problems, which the fund sees as major threats to the global economy. Political squabbling among European leaders has interfered with the region's ability to reach a sustainable solution, the report said.
The I.M.F. contributed $41 billion to a $150 billion rescue package for Greece assembled by European leaders in May 2010. Officials from the I.M.F. and European Central Bank are reviewing Greece's progress in cutting its government budget deficit before providing the next installment of funds from that loan.
In the United States, policymakers should take steps to improve the financial position of American households, the report said. One way to do that would be to reduce mortgage debt for those Americans who owe more on their homes than they are worth. About one-quarter of homeowners in the United States are in that position. Reducing that debt burden would improve consumer demand and support growth, the report said.
''Restoring confidence in the stability of the U.S. housing market is the key to bolstering the prospects for U.S. banks,'' which have been hurt by slower growth, the report said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); EURO CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (71%); HOMEOWNERS (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (64%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (95%); GREECE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



942 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 347 words

HEADLINE: General Mills Earnings Beat Expectations

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
General Mills reported a better-than-expected quarterly profit on Wednesday, as price increases helped it contend with much higher ingredient and fuel costs.
The company, whose brands include Cheerios and Progresso Soups, also benefited from its longtime focus on reining in costs. Like most food companies, General Mills raised prices to try to offset some of the effects of higher costs for grains and other items. 
But the company's results outshine those reported by its rival food maker ConAgra Foods, which missed analysts' expectations on Tuesday.
''General Mills operates with a stronger brand portfolio than ConAgra,'' said a Morningstar analyst, Erin Lash. ''That's one of the things that we think serves General Mills well and will continue to serve them well in this tough consumer environment.''
General Mills said sales rose 8.9 percent to $3.85 billion in the first quarter ended on Aug. 28, helped by its recently acquired Yoplait yogurt business and the willingness of consumers to accept higher prices.
Snacks, which include Nature Valley bars, showed one of the largest sales gains among the segments in the United States with a 17 percent rise. In contrast, sales in the meals unit, which includes canned soups and dinner mixes, fell 4 percent. The business in the United States accounts for nearly two-thirds of sales.
The international Yoplait unit accounted for about one-third of General Mills's growth, helping the company beat the $3.81 billion in net sales Wall Street was expecting, according to Thomson Reuters.
Net income fell to $405.6 million, or 61 cents a share, from $472.1 million, or 70 cents per share, a year earlier.
Excluding special items, earnings came to 64 cents a share, beating the 62 cents that analysts expected.
The company maintained its fiscal 2012 earnings forecast of $2.59 to $2.61 a share, excluding the costs of integrating Yoplait. It still expects costs to rise 10 percent to 11 percent for the year, more than double its inflation rate in fiscal 2011.
General Mills's shares closed up 2.5 percent to $38.44, on a down day on Wall Street.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD INDUSTRY (92%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (79%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); INFLATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (69%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MILLS INC (90%); CONAGRA FOODS INC (85%)

TICKER: GIS (NYSE) (90%); CAG (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (90%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (90%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (90%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (90%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (90%); NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS311710 SEAFOOD PRODUCT PREPARATION & PACKAGING (85%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (85%); SIC2092 PREPARED FRESH OR FROZEN FISH & SEAFOODS (85%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



943 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: New Enrollment Dips a Bit At U.S. Graduate Schools

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
Enrollment of new students at graduate schools in the United States dropped slightly from 2009 to 2010, despite an 8.4 percent increase in applications. It was the first decline in first-time graduate enrollment since 2003, according to the Council of Graduate Schools, and came after a 5.5 percent increase the previous year.
The decrease in new graduate students was particularly noticeable in business, education and public administration programs, according to Debra W. Stewart, the council's president. And while the number of new Hispanic students grew by almost 5 percent, new enrollment by black students declined by more than 8 percent. 
''Both historically and in recent years, there's been an inverse relationship between the economy and graduate student enrollment,'' Dr. Stewart said. ''But now, they're both down, so the question is, why?''
''With this recession going on for so long,'' she said, ''people who have a job are less likely to want to leave it to go back to school, because it's not at all clear that there will be a job for them at the other end.''
The cost of graduate school was also a significant factor, Dr. Stewart said.
The number of students starting graduate school shrank only among domestic students, according to the council's report. The number of new international graduate students coming to study in the United States rose 4.7 percent from 2009 to 2010, while first-time enrollment of domestic students declined 1.2 percent.
''The decline in domestic students is very bad news for the nation's economic future,'' Dr. Stewart said. ''Higher education and, increasingly, graduate education are what drives prosperity, and if we get to the point where only people with significant bank accounts can afford graduate education, the country is doomed.''
At Ohio State University, a huge public research university with thousands of graduate students, there was a slight increase in first-time graduate students from 2009 to 2010. But even there, graduate business programs contracted slightly, to 240 entering business students in the fall of 2010, compared with 256 the previous year.
''Employers usually pay a lot of that, and with times being tight, that's probably a decline in the percent sent by their companies,'' said Patrick S. Osmer, the dean of the graduate school at Ohio State. ''Our projections are for a slight decrease for the academic year that begins in fall 2011, in master's level programs, but it's hard to say, because we have no official numbers yet; it's the first day of classes, and as of this date compared to the first day last year, we're up a little.''
While new graduate enrollment nationwide declined slightly, overall graduate enrollment, 1.75 million students, was up by 1.1 percent.
Doctoral programs are growing faster than master's and certificate programs, the council's study found, both among newly enrolled graduate students and the overall graduate population.
In fall 2010, about three-quarters of all graduate students were in programs leading to a master's degree or graduate certificate, and education and business programs alone account for about 40 percent of graduate enrollment.
More than 60 percent of the 445,000 first-time graduate students were enrolled at public institutions, and about 58 percent of them were women.
Women earned about two-thirds of the graduate certificates awarded in 2009-10, as well as 60 percent of the master's degrees and 52 percent of the doctorates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (95%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (95%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



944 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: Moody's Downgrades Credit Ratings of Three Large Banks

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
Moody's cut its credit ratings Wednesday on three large banks -- Bank of America, Citigroup and Wells Fargo -- underscoring the challenges the sector still faces three years after the onset of the financial crisis.
The downgrades were driven by Moody's conclusion that the federal government was less likely to step in and provide support for a faltering big bank the way it did after the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers, when Washington executed a series of actions including capital infusions and credit guarantees to halt the spreading panic.
Moody's had put the banks on notice for a possible downgrade on June 2. 
While Moody's said it ''believes that the government is likely to continue to provide some level of support to systemically important financial institutions,'' the agency added that the government ''is also more likely now than during the financial crisis to allow a large bank to fail should it become financially troubled.''
Under the Dodd-Frank financial regulatory reform passed by Congress in 2010, financial institutions must file a so-called living will that lays out steps for an orderly liquidation in the event of a financial collapse. The goal is to avoid future government bailouts, as well as the kind of turmoil unleashed by Lehman's unexpected bankruptcy.
''Now, having moved beyond the depths of the crisis, Moody's believes there is an increased possibility that the government might allow a large financial institution to fail, taking the view that the contagion could be limited,'' the firm said in a statement. Even so, Moody's said it doubted whether a global financial institution could be liquidated ''without a disruption of the marketplace and the broader economy.''
The ratings agency cut Bank of America's long-term senior debt to Baa1, three levels above junk. For Citigroup, Moody's cut its ratings on short-term debt to Prime 2 from Prime 1, while affirming its A3 long-term rating. Moody's lowered its rating on Wells Fargo's senior debt to A2 from A1. Its Prime-1 short-term rating was affirmed. Of the three institutions, Bank of America has the lowest credit rating.
Shares of all three big banks fell sharply after the downgrade, but Bank of America dropped the most, falling 7.5 percent to $6.38 a share.
Although big banks enjoyed higher credit ratings before the financial crisis, Wednesday's move was not unexpected, and analysts played down its significance. Although it could slightly raise borrowing costs over the long term, banks are not expected to have to pay significantly more to finance their operations in the near term.
''It's not a good headline, but it shouldn't have much impact,'' said Jason Goldberg, an analyst with Barclays Capital, adding that even the federal government's loss of its AAA rating this summer had not raised its borrowing costs.
In addition to seeing the government as less likely to support Bank of America, if needed, Moody's said that the company ''remains exposed to potentially significant risks related to both the residential mortgage and home equity loans on its balance sheet, as well as to mortgages previously sold to investors.''
Investors are seeking to force Bank of America to pay billions of dollars for its alleged misdeeds during the height of the housing boom, especially the bubble-related excesses at Countrywide Financial, the subprime giant Bank of America acquired in 2008. Bank of America has reached settlements with some investors, but other holders of mortgage-backed securities assembled by Bank of America, Countrywide and Merrill Lynch, another subsidiary, are suing to recover multibillion-dollar losses.
Moody's was careful to note that its action did not reflect a weakening of Bank of America's ''intrinsic credit quality.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (73%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (71%); CORPORATE DEBT (70%); LIVING WILLS (52%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (95%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); MOODY'S CORP (92%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (91%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (95%); BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); MCO (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



945 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Home Sales Rose in August, but Prices Fell

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Existing home sales rose more than expected in August to the fastest annual pace since March, as falling prices and low interest rates drew more buyers into the market, the National Association of Realtors said Wednesday. 
The data did little to change the view that housing, hobbled by a burst bubble that prompted a major recession, will not help the economy much anytime soon.
Sales climbed 7.7 percent from the previous month to an annual rate of 5.03 million units, the group said. The median price was 5.1 percent lower than a year earlier.
The association said the increase in sales came despite some disruptions from Hurricane Irene, which battered much of the East Coast at the end of the month.
Economists polled by Reuters had expected sales to rise 1.4 percent to a 4.71 million-unit pace. Compared with August 2010, sales were 18.6 percent higher.
''This housing market is still very distressed,'' said Michael Hanson, an economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York. ''We have to get a lot of good news for a meaningful turnaround in the housing market.''
The outlook for housing prices remains grim. A survey by MacroMarkets showed that economists expected home prices to rise just 1.1 percent a year through 2015.
That is less than a third of the annual pace clocked in the 13 years that preceded the housing bubble, the survey found. Falling prices can make housing look like a poor investment for many Americans.
A separate report showed applications for mortgages edged up last week on higher refinancing activity, but were held back by a lack of demand for purchases, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association.
One factor keeping home prices low is the high rate of ''distressed sales,'' which include those forced by foreclosures. Distressed sales accounted for 31 percent of August transactions, up from 29 percent a month earlier.
At the same time, some other props for the sector are set to fall away. At the end of this month, the size of the loans federal housing agencies can purchase will fall, and next year government-controlled mortgage companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will begin to raise fees on the loans they purchase.
Jed Smith, an economist with the National Association of Realtors, was nevertheless upbeat that the prices could stabilize soon because he said inventories would most likely decline over the winter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); HOME PRICES (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (87%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); RECESSION (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (69%); HURRICANES (69%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (82%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



946 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 189 words

HEADLINE: The Value of Microfinance

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Sewing Her Way Out of Poverty'' has become a popular and successful strategy for women around the world thanks to the social effect of microfinance. Nicholas D. Kristof (column, Sept. 15) has reminded us of the enormous benefits of small, income-generating loans to primarily poor women. 
Although microcredit has gone through many recent changes, financial services, including savings and even insurance, enable poor families to rise above poverty lines and children to attend schools.
When financial programs like Jamii Bora in Kenya provide training and capacity building for its borrowers, microcredit succeeds as a pro-poor development model.
When microfinance banks maximize profits, push loans on borrowers who can't afford them, generate overindebtedness and move away from the original and primary mission to reduce poverty, they replicate banking practices that have contributed to the global recession.
Socially responsible microfinance institutions will always maintain a positive role for economic development and poverty alleviation.
TERRY PROVANCE Executive Director, Oikocredit U.S.A. Washington, Sept. 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MICROFINANCE (94%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (92%); WOMEN (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POOR POPULATION (88%); CHILD POVERTY (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); FAMILY (88%); CHILDREN (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); RECESSION (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); KENYA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



947 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Warning Lights To Alert I.M.F.

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER SWANN and QUENTIN WEBB

 BODY:
The International Monetary Fund has a new crystal ball of sorts. The lender has found a measure of credit growth that could predict problems. It makes China look precarious and heralds turbulence elsewhere, too.
The fund's record at spotting major problems is lousy. Ever since the global financial crisis in 2008, it has been under pressure to get better at seeing troubles ahead of time. Despite its army of Ph.D.'s, the fund was blindsided by the subprime mortgage crisis in the United States and played down the problems even as they started to unfold.
So in this year's Global Financial Stability Report, released on Wednesday, the I.M.F. offers a new risk warning light. An annual increase in the ratio of a nation's outstanding credit to its gross domestic product of more than five percentage points, the I.M.F. estimates, signals a heightened risk of financial crisis about two years thereafter. 
Had the I.M.F. followed this simple rule of thumb, it might have foreseen not only the American excesses at the heart of the crisis in 2008 but also the woes in Greece, Italy, Portugal and Ireland.
The I.M.F. isn't naming names but at the moment, based on data compiled by Thomson Reuters, the indicator is blinking red for China, where the credit-to-G.D.P. ratio rocketed 24 percentage points in 2009. That puts the nation on track for turbulence any time now, though the increase last year was just four percentage points. The rapid credit growth in Hong Kong, where the I.M.F.'s ratio ballooned by 30 percentage points last year, looks alarming. Among other more significant economies, Turkey and Vietnam also registered well above the fund's threshold last year.
That said, the I.M.F. is rightly careful not to overstate the reliability of its 5 percent rule. Brazil flashed red in 2006, 2007 and 2008, but a financial crisis hasn't happened yet. There are also other trends that tend to presage busts, like surging capital inflows. There's a further danger the indicator could succumb to Goodhart's law, which states that once anyone starts relying on a measure, it stops being useful.
Still, the yardstick does express a warning that borrowing is expanding significantly faster than the growth of an economy as a whole. It won't work perfectly, but the stewards of overheating economies shouldn't dismiss what seems a sensible gauge.
Cheers, Mate
Like two quarrelsome drunks who are suddenly best of friends, SABMiller and the Foster's Group have quickly patched things up. Foster's, the Australian brand, has done well to secure a sweetened $10-billion-plus offer from its London-listed rival, with markets queasy and no rival bidders in sight. The deal is hardly cheap, but the numbers just about work for SAB. And Foster's was one of the few available beer producers of any size.
The all-cash deal is worth 5.10 Australian dollars ($5.22) for each Foster's share, but this will come after the company makes a special 30 Australian cent distribution. Shareholders will also receive a previously announced full-year dividend, which SAB had earlier said would be lopped off any offer.
The terms imply an enterprise value of about 11.9 billion Australian dollars at completion, based on SAB's forecast of 1.4 billion Australian dollars for Foster's net debt by the end of December. For its part, SAB says the implied enterprise value is a bit lower, after taking into account some inherited tax losses.
Foster's earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the 12 months ending June 2012 are likely to hit 911.5 million Australian dollars, StarMine, Thomson Reuters research unit, estimates. The deal values Foster's at a little over 13 times that figure.
That's more than the 12.5 times Ebitda that Kirin paid for another Australian company, Lion Nathan. SAB says it could take five years for the deal to cover Foster's 8.7 percent weighted averaged cost of capital. That would normally push investors' patience. But SAB is a master at carving out lucrative niches for beer brands, and shareholders can reasonably expect results sooner -- especially if, as some believe, Foster's offers plenty of cost-cutting potential.
For Foster's, the outcome is a vindication of the spinoff of its wine unit, which had deterred suitors from its beer business. The chief executive of Foster's, John Pollaers, has squeezed a fully priced bid out of SAB, despite market volatility and the failure to get an auction going. As for Graham Mackay, SAB's long-serving chief executive, he may well end up handing over the reins to a new leader before the deal's success can be judged. CHRISTOPHER SWANN
and QUENTIN WEBB
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Foster's was one of few prominent beer producers available for acquisition. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICK TSIKAS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); STATISTICS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (70%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (56%)

COMPANY: FOSTER'S GROUP LTD (51%); SABMILLER PLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%)

TICKER: SOSAB (JSE) (51%); SAB (LSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (51%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%); TURKEY (79%); GREECE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



948 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; I.H.T. SPECIAL REPORT: GLOBAL AGENDA; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: As World Leaders Meet, Global Unemployment Is Topic No. 1

BYLINE: By JACK EWING; Niki Kitsantonis contributed reporting from Athens.

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- What do the Arab Spring, the London riots and the Greek debt crisis have in common? They have all happened in environments of rampant joblessness. In fact, it might not be far off to say that a big share of the world's political and economic turmoil is fueled in one way or another by unemployment.
That is why, when policy makers and economists meet in Washington this week for the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank, unemployment will be prominent on the agenda. 
After all, the ultimate measure of economic success is not whether the stock or bond markets go up -- though it sometimes seems that way -- but rather whether a society can provide jobs for its citizens. A society that fails will see other problems multiply in the form of political unrest, sinking tax revenue and soaring debt.
Greece, which is threatening to undermine the global financial system, is a prime example. An underlying cause of its debt problem is the country's dysfunctional economy and an ossified job market that keeps out newcomers and outsiders.
''The Greek labor market clearly plays a huge role,'' said Jacob Funk Kierkegaard, an economist at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. ''Greece is totally overregulated and systemically corrupt. Everybody is a protected group. You clearly need to get rid of that.''
Likewise, it is no accident that the countries in the Middle East and North Africa where political unrest has flared have some of the highest rates of youth unemployment in the world, with young people nearly four times as likely to be jobless as adults, according to the International Labor Organization in Geneva. An unusually high number of the unemployed are well educated.
The long-term success of uprisings that toppled strongmen in Egypt, Tunisia and Libya will probably depend in large part on whether the new governments can provide jobs for the frustrated young people who propelled regime change.
For that reason, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is financed by 61 countries, including the United States, has put a priority on creating jobs as it expands its involvement to North Africa after the Arab Spring.
''The No. 1 focus is going to be on small and medium-size enterprises and employment, creating new jobs and meaningful jobs,'' said Erik Berglof, chief economist of the European Bank.
But it is the industrialized countries, not the poor nations, that have the biggest growth in unemployment. Developed countries account for 15 percent of the world's labor force but more than half the number of newly jobless since 2007, according to the International Labor Organization.
Unemployment, said Prakash Loungani, an adviser in the research department of the I.M.F. in Washington, ''is an advanced-country problem.''
This does not mean that workers in the United States or Europe are going to start migrating to emerging markets for jobs. Working people in emerging countries are often extremely poor. Nearly 40 percent, or 1.2 billion people, earn less than $2 a day.
It is the prospect of a better job that drives huge numbers of poor people to risk their lives in treks to Europe or the United States, where the influx of immigrants can raise political tensions.
While the number of people migrating in search of work has declined during the global downturn, developed countries ''remain attractive,'' said Thomas Liebig, who studies migration at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris. ''The gap is still pretty large.''
High growth rates mean that employment in emerging countries is at least going in the right direction. That is not true of many developed economies. Just ask President Obama, whose re-election may depend on whether the United States unemployment rate starts to go down.
Few large countries have had better success than Germany. Unemployment has plunged to 6.2 percent from a peak of 10.6 percent in 2005. One reason is a series of policies that loosened job protections and put more pressure on unemployed people to find work.
A boom in exports also helped. ''Anyone who really wants to work, they will find a job,'' said Bernhard Frank, deputy director of the Jobcenter, a government facility, in Offenbach, a working-class city next to Frankfurt.
Offenbach, which never quite recovered from the collapse of the local leather goods industry decades ago, still has a jobless rate above 10 percent even though that is sharply lower than a few years ago. Many Offenbach residents are recent immigrants who do not speak German or lack other skills.
Mr. Frank is proud that the Offenbach Jobcenter has one of the best records of any large city in Germany for bringing down the number of long-term unemployed. But the progress requires resources that most countries would be unwilling or unable to pay for, like day-care centers.
It took half a decade for such efforts to affect jobless rates, and in the meantime the unpopular changes inflicted lasting damage on the Social Democrats, the party that undertook them.
Greece is at the beginning of that painful process, and unlike Germany is contending with a brutal economic downturn and harsh government austerity programs. Even those Greeks who have not joined mass protests are skeptical that labor market deregulation will benefit them.
Panos Alivizatos, a 35-year-old father of two who lost his job at a small furniture manufacturer near Athens last November, said that measures to lift restrictions on entry into dozens of professions, ranging from taxi drivers to pharmacists, were a good thing. But he does not see how they are going to help him.
''I can drive, but you need 30,000 euros to get a taxi license. Where am I going to find 30,000 euros?'' Mr. Alivizatos said.
Economists say that labor market deregulation in Greece, while badly needed, by itself will not cure unemployment. Growth must also recover. In the meantime, the tax revenue lost when people become jobless only worsens Greece's debt burden.
''Clearly it doesn't help if a large proportion of your population is not paying taxes and you're having to pay them benefits,'' said Mr. Loungani.
Mr. Loungani worries about the corrosive effects of unemployment on people and societies. ''I know from my own experience the loss of confidence in your own skills that comes with the 200th job rejection letter,'' he said. ''That's why it's so important to get people back soon. You risk making a cyclical problem into a structural problem.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In early September, Greeks protested in Athens against planned education changes and government austerity programs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN KOLESIDIS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); RIOTS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BONDS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); BOND MARKETS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (79%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); GERMANY (92%); AFRICA (92%); GREECE (91%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EGYPT (79%); TUNISIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



949 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: As Effects of Recession Linger, Growth in City's Poverty Rate Outpaces the Nation's

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
Poverty grew nationwide last year, but the increase was even greater in New York City, the Census Bureau will report on Thursday, suggesting that New York was being particularly hard hit by the aftermath of the recession.
From 2009 to 2010, 75,000 city residents were pushed into poverty, increasing the poor population to more than 1.6 million and raising the percentage of New Yorkers living below the official federal poverty line to 20.1 percent, the highest level since 2000. The 1.4-percentage-point annual increase in the poverty rate appeared to be the largest jump in nearly two decades.
Many New Yorkers were spared the worst of the recession, but the median household income has since shriveled to levels last seen in 1980, adjusted for inflation. Household income declined among almost all groups -- by 5 percent over all since the beginning of the recession in 2007, to $48,743 in 2010. 
Manhattan continued to have the biggest income gap of any county in the country, with the top fifth of earners (with an average income of $371,754) making nearly 38 times as much as the bottom fifth ($9,845).
Poverty among children under 18 rose 2.9 percentage points to 30 percent. The rate also increased for every other group except people 65 and older. Single mothers, blacks and adults lacking a high school diploma fared worst. Among Hispanic single mothers in the Bronx, the poverty rate was nearly 58 percent.
The bureau's 2010 American Community Survey paints a disturbing portrait of the city. More New Yorkers depended on some form of public assistance than in 2009, and a record 1.8 million residents -- nearly one in five households -- are now relying on food stamps. Fewer people had health insurance, home ownership declined and housing values plunged; 44 percent of renters were diverting at least 35 percent of their income for housing.
Unemployment rose one percentage point, and more people gave up on finding work, which may be one reason college and graduate school enrollment soared by about 50,000. More living quarters were crowded -- from 7.9 percent of all houses and apartments in 2009 to 9.1 percent last year.
Though the poverty rate in the city rose faster than it did nationwide and the Bronx remained the poorest urban county in the country, New York still had a smaller proportion of poor people than many other major cities, including Miami, Dallas, Houston, Chicago, Minneapolis, Los Angeles and Boston.
An influx of immigrants pushed the city's foreign-born population to near-record highs (more than three million, and 37.2 percent). Their ranks swelled by about 50,000. Half of New Yorkers 5 and older now do not speak English at home.
The city's poverty rate had remained about 18 percent since 2007 before climbing from 18.7 percent in 2009. The poverty rate was 20 percent in 1980, 19.3 percent in 1990 and 21.2 percent in 2000, after the dot-com bubble burst.
The 2010 federal poverty threshold for a family of three was $18,310.
Some economists suggested that federal bailout money to prop up failing financial institutions based in New York had spared the city the worst ravages of the recession, which statisticians declared over in 2009.
''The bailout of Wall Street just put off the day of reckoning,'' said Steven Malanga, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute for Policy Research, a conservative group.
Advocates for the poor said the size of the problem might have been understated. ''Increasing poverty is simply a confirmation of what we see every day in ever-longer lines at food pantries and soup kitchens,'' said Joel Berg, executive director of the New York City Coalition Against Hunger. ''It is also latest proof our city and state policies are failing in fundamental ways.''
David R. Jones, president of the Community Service Society, an anti-poverty group, said: ''Maybe because things looked so good for the well-educated and restaurants are packed, we figured that we missed this bullet. Projecting forward, I don't think it's getting better.''
Nationally, the Census Bureau said median household income had declined 2.3 percent to $49,445 from 2009 to 2010, and the poverty rate increased to 15.1 percent from 14.3 percent, the third consecutive annual increase.
In New York City, non-Hispanic whites took the biggest financial hit, according to the figures; their real income fell to $66,330, from $70,627. Median household income among Hispanic New Yorkers inched up to $35,887, from $34,586. Income also rose in Manhattan and Brooklyn.
The city computes its own poverty rate, taking into account expenses for health and day care and higher living costs, as well as the benefits of tax credits, food stamps, school lunches and other assistance.
By its measure, the city's poverty rate in 2009 was 19.9 percent. Mark K. Levitan, director of poverty research for the city's Center for Economic Opportunity, said a more current poverty rate would be provided early next year.
''We will certainly see a higher poverty rate citywide as a whole,'' he said, though he did not foresee as big a rise.
Jilly Stephens, executive director of City Harvest, said its feeding programs ''have reported an average increase of 5 percent on top of the rising demand they were already facing.''
James Parrott, deputy director and chief economist of the Fiscal Policy Institute, a union-supported research and advocacy group, said the latest figures ''paint a disturbingly clear picture of a deteriorating living standard for most New Yorkers.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Starting to Widen: New York City's poverty rate had been creeping closer to the national average, until this year. (Source: Census Bureau) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (93%); POOR POPULATION (92%); POVERTY RATES (92%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (88%); CHILD POVERTY (79%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (79%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (78%); CENSUS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); CHILDREN (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); SINGLE PARENTS (65%); HOME PRICES (62%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (62%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (61%); IMMIGRATION (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



950 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: In India, Nurturing the Next Generation of Entrepreneurs

BYLINE: By NIDA NAJAR

 BODY:
NEW DELHI - Teacups in hand and butter biscuits within reach, a handful of local technology titans debated the future of some young Indian entrepreneurs on a summer Saturday. After grilling five teams over several hours, the group, the Indian Angel Network, put two promising start-ups on the short list for potential financing.
''The Angel Network is really trying to help breed innovation,'' said Padmaja Ruparel, the president of the organization. ''Our efforts are really going into driving the economic engine of India.'' 
Even though India is famous for its software industry, it hasn't been a conducive environment for up-and-coming technology companies. Unlike in Silicon Valley, start-ups here cannot easily access capital, tap into a network of serial entrepreneurs or hone their ideas through incubators.
Wealthy individuals and organizations like Indian Angel Network are increasingly filling the void, providing initial capital to young companies with strong prospects.
It's a small but growing class. In the last five years, angel investors put less than $200 million in start-ups, based on data from Venture Intelligence, a research firm in Mumbai. In the United States, angel investment topped $20 billion in 2010 alone, according to the Center for Venture Research.
Angel investing is a high-risk, high-reward game. Since start-ups often fail before they ever make any money, the investors, who typically invest less than $1 million, are betting that a few will take off - earning returns as much as 10 times their original outlay. In India, they are basically hoping to find another Nandan Nilekani, the co-founder of the software exporter Infosys, or the next Azim Premji, the billionaire chairman of Wipro, one of the world's largest technology service companies.
Entrepreneurs in India have faced even tougher odds. Until 1991, the country had a socialist economic policy, and most industries were dominated by state-owned firms or a handful of large business conglomerates like the Tata and Birla Groups.
Back then, upstart projects often were stalled by bureaucratic hurdles. Saurabh Srivastava, the chairman of the India Angel Network, who founded the software company IIS Infotech in 1989, said he had to wait two and a half years to get permission from the government to start his company.
''For first-generation entrepreneurs, it was a monopoly; anyone who had an alliance got ahead,'' said Mr. Srivastava, who is considered one of the pioneers of India's modern technology industry.
Now, established entrepreneurs and business executives like Mr. Srivastava are looking to ease the burden for the next generation. The Indian Angel Network, for example, has started an incubator where members mentor young entrepreneurs. It also set up ''boot camps,'' inviting 10 individuals or teams to give three-minute pitches in different cities across the country, to practice for future fund-raising efforts.
Analysts say it is unclear whether angel investing will become as enmeshed in India's business culture as it is in Silicon Valley, or whether it will crumble if early investors suffer too many losses. While conditions have improved significantly for India's entrepreneurs, the entrepreneurs still face numerous challenges, including a weak infrastructure and a poor education system.
Many of these new investors are ''the first wave of people who kind of made money in their first venture and sold off probably 10 years back,'' said Arun Natarajan, chief executive of Venture Intelligence. ''Time will tell what will happen when a real downturn arrives. Will some of these guys stick to safer investments?''
The Indian Angel Network understands the potential pitfalls. Founded in 2006, the group counts the outsourcing giant Raman Roy; Harish Mehta, the founder of an engineering design services firm; and Rajan Anandan, the managing director of Google India, among its 175 members. Mr. Anandan spent the majority of his career working for McKinsey & Company and Dell in the United States, joining the India Angel Network in 2006 after he returned to his home country.
''It's very fulfilling to work with entrepreneurs,'' said Mr. Anandan, who also invests in start-ups on his own. ''We sit on the boards of the companies. We are deeply involved.''
To vet investments, the group meets most Saturdays in boardrooms across the country. They listen to 20-minute pitches from young entrepreneurs based in India and abroad. After they reach consensus on a start-up, they solicit the larger membership for money.
In the last five years, the group has made 25 investments, notching gains in Druva, a real-time data backup software company. Another in its portfolio, Hungry Zone, a restaurant reservation site in Bangalore, was bought by the British company Just-Eat.
They put candidates through the wringer. The organization hears more than 200 pitches a year, but finances only a handful. At a recent meeting, the first presenters were graduates of IIT Roorkee, a prestigious engineering school in the country. Two young men described their idea to develop a virtual learning company for recent graduates to make them more attractive to multinationals with Indian operations.
Their pitch presented the idea as filling an unmet need in the country. But 20 minutes into their PowerPoint presentation on the hardships faced by new graduates, the judges grew restless.
''In the interests of time, can you move towards a solution?'' asked Vishal Lalani, who runs a dashboard instruments manufacturing company.
Later in the day, the group voted down the pitch, citing doubts that the idea would really address the problem.
''We're not looking at it as cutting checks,'' said Pradeep Gupta, the chairman of the specialty media house CyberMedia and a member of Indian Angel Network. ''We should be able to add value to the company. We should be able to add value to India.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Saurabh Srivastava, left, a founding member of the Indian Angel Network, and Padmaja Ruparel, the group's president, discussing project ideas from entrepreneurs who seek financial support. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SANJIT DAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (92%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); STARTUPS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (70%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: INFOSYS LTD (53%)

TICKER: INFY (NYSE) (53%); INFY (NSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (53%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (89%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); MUMBAI, INDIA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



951 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Data Show County's Pain As Economy Plummeted

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE; Barclay Walsh contributed reporting from Washington, and Anne McQuary from Greenwood.

 BODY:
GREENWOOD, S.C. -- The Greenwood Mills Matthews Plant once employed three generations of Frances Flaherty's family. Her grandmother, father and brother made textiles there -- denim for jeans and khaki for military uniforms.
But it all but closed in 2007 when the economy soured, pitching dozens of workers into the ranks of the unemployed, and the plant now functions mainly as a bleak backdrop to Ms. Flaherty's restaurant, the Southside Cafe, where diners gaze out at its red brick walls.
''It's what held this town together, all the mills,'' Ms. Flaherty said, watching another thinly attended lunch hour go by. ''They just slowly but surely dwindled out.'' 
The falloff of the economy of Greenwood County, a district of almost 70,000 people that once pulsed with busy factories and mills, was the steepest in the country by two counts.
According to an analysis of Census Bureau figures made public on Thursday, its poverty rate more than doubled to 24 percent from 2007 to 2010, the largest increase for any county in the nation.
The decline also engulfed the middle class. Median household income plunged by 28 percent over the same period, shaving nearly $12,000 off the annual earnings of families here during the recession, according to the analysis, by Andrew A. Beveridge, a demographer at Queens College.
The numbers tell the story of a painful decade in Greenwood, which began with poverty levels that were close to the nation's, and ended far above -- after layoffs in textile mills, a foundry, restaurants and construction companies pummeled the county's residents.
The number of workers in manufacturing alone fell by a quarter in the county from 2005 to 2009, according to a census survey of employers.
Those new facts are just sharp reminders to people here about what they have lived through.
''There just aren't any jobs in Greenwood anymore,'' said James Freeman, 58, a former textile mill worker. ''My son can't even get a job flipping burgers.''
Mr. Freeman worked for years in the textile mills, including the Matthews plant. He lost his last mill job in 2007 and was unable to find another. The work at one of the mills that employed him went to Argentina, he said, because the fabric was cheaper to produce there. Those workers were paid less, he was told, and got no benefits.
''That made me feel kind of bad,'' said Mr. Freeman, who now collects disability. The mill's closing ''hurt a lot of people here in Greenwood.''
Disappointment like Mr. Freeman's has welled up in areas of deep economic decline, infusing this election season with a blend of exhaustion and bitterness.
''Until we bring the companies back from overseas and stop protecting the world, we're not going to be anything,'' said Sam Stevenson, a retired construction worker, who could summon only expletives when asked about President Obama's job plan.
In many ways, Greenwood is a typical American county. More than a quarter of its residents had at least some college education in 2009, roughly the same as the 27 percent nationally. It has a public university, which grants four-year degrees, a museum and a shopping mall.
But education has not seemed to ease the economic pain in an area whose fortunes were tied so closely to the textile industry that is now in such steep decline. Signs with the words ''space available'' are posted outside vacant factories on the road between here and Columbia, 80 miles to the east.
A red brick Baptist church on the outskirts of town commanded on its marquee, ''Have your tools ready, and God will find you work.''
Apache Pawn and Gun, a pawn shop in town, is packed with items sold by people trying to make ends meet. Televisions, chain saws, bicycles and guitars are stacked from floor to ceiling. Chris Harris, the owner, said more middle-class people had come in to buy since the recession began.
''They're saying, 'Why should I buy a new chain saw when I could buy a used one?' '' Mr. Harris said.
Ms. Flaherty said her cafe --its walls adorned with black-and-white photographs of mill workers and residents from happier times --is barely making it. When she opened in 2007, lunch used to bring lines out the door from workers at the plant and other businesses. Now it draws only a few diners. On Wednesday around 1:30 p.m., there were two.
And while housing prices have picked up -- now a median of about $120,000 for the current listings compared with $109,000 in 2009 -- the economy this year does not seem to be getting any better.
''It's been bad this year,'' said Kathy Green, owner of the Garden Grill, who said business was down significantly since the start of the recession. People order less, she said, and come in for the specials -- $6 for a hamburger, fries and a drink.
Ms. Green said, ''People just don't have the money anymore.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Downtown Greenwood, S.C., seat of Greenwood County, whose poverty rate has more than doubled. (A14)
''It's what held this town together, all the mills,'' said Frances Flaherty, owner of the Southside Cafe in Greenwood, S.C. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANNE MCQUARY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22) GRAPHICS: Measuring the Recession's Toll: Poverty rates increased in all states, and the median household income dropped in all but five states and the District of Columbia from 2007 to 2010. (Sources: Andrew A. Beveridge, Queens College Sociology Department
 Census Bureau) (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEXTILES (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); POVERTY RATES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); TEXTILE MFG (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); FABRIC MILLS (89%); TEXTILE MILLS (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); FABRICS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); CENSUS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (66%); CONSTRUCTION (64%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



952 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Lobbyists Line Up to Sway the Special Committee

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With television cameras rolling last week, aerospace executives warned of dire consequences if Congress cuts hundreds of billions of dollars in Pentagon spending, and they promised a full-throttled campaign to stop it.
As if to prove the point, one panelist, Dick McNeel, who runs a North Carolina supplier of military parts, abruptly left the dais before the briefing was even over and dashed to a meeting with Senator Patrick J. Toomey to fight the kind of cuts that Mr. McNeel says could cost jobs. It is all part of an effort, Mr. McNeel said, ''to make sure Washington knows how we feel.''
Mr. Toomey, a Republican from Pennsylvania, and the other 11 lawmakers on a special Congressional committee are weighing $1.2 trillion in debt reductions. They are suddenly among the most popular people in town, with lobbyists and executives from powerful interest groups angling to schedule meetings, distribute checks at fund-raisers and deliver petitions to influence their work. 
''If you're not at the table,'' Manuel Rouvelas, a prominent Washington lawyer, said of the lobbying blitz, ''you're on the menu.''
The committee is the focus of intense lobbying not only because of its broad mandate, but also because it faces an unusually fast timetable; its recommendations are due by Thanksgiving. And the failure to approve a plan would set off a series of automatic cuts.
The committee's mandate is considered so important that the recommendations of a majority of its members -- six Democrats and six Republicans -- must go straight to the House and Senate floors on an up-or-down vote, with no amendments or filibusters.
With bitter partisanship surrounding the debate, some officials inside and out of Congress are already predicting that the committee will fail. Without a plan, the across-the-board cuts would begin in 2013. Pentagon financing would be particularly hard hit -- with cuts expected of $55 billion per year for 10 years -- but some social and entitlement programs, including Social Security, Medicare and food stamps, would be spared.
As lobbyists and executives in education, agriculture, social services and other areas game out the possibilities, some say their sectors could conceivably be better off, and the sting of cutbacks less painful, if the automatic cuts take effect.
But with many unknowns, few interest groups are willing to take that risk. As Joe Schultz, a senior economist with the Senate agriculture committee, told a Texas cotton growers' group, the risks of even deeper hits should the automatic cuts take effect makes him ''very, very worried.''
For now, hundreds of lobbyists, including many former Congressional officials and frequent campaign contributors, are making their cases to the committee members.
Ethanol fuel producers, oil companies, corporate jet owners and many other businesses want the committee to guard their own special tax breaks.
Private equity firms and hedge funds want to defeat an Obama administration proposal to raise $18 billion by increasing taxes on certain investments.
Real estate insiders want to preserve mortgage interest deductions for higher-priced residences and second homes. Pharmacies oppose cuts in medical reimbursements. And advocates for the elderly want to protect Social Security and Medicare.
''Everybody's at risk,'' said Howard Marlowe, president of the American League of Lobbyists, ''and so everyone's going to be out there lobbying.''
With the lobbying, of course, come valuable campaign contributions. Despite calls from watchdog groups to suspend their fund-raising, most committee members are continuing to raise money from many of the same industries affected by their work.
Indeed, lobbyists say word is already out in Washington that opening their wallets at fund-raisers could help get access to lawmakers to make their pitches.
Committee members scheduled two dozen fund-raisers from August to November, including a golf tournament getaway and lunch at Charlie Palmer's Steakhouse, a Washington hot spot, according to the Sunlight Foundation, which tracks fund-raisers.
While a few committee members have canceled individual fund-raising events or chosen to attend only previously scheduled ones, no one has opted out of fund-raising altogether.
Representative James E. Clyburn, a leading Democrat from South Carolina who sits on the committee, has nine fund-raisers scheduled during the panel's work, more than any other member, according to the Sunlight Foundation. He had four fund-raisers scheduled last week alone. As the panel began its work, and just days before being named to the committee in August, Mr. Clyburn led a charity golf tournament that included Microsoft, Dell, Fluor, Altria and AT&T among more than 80 corporate sponsors.
That worries people like David Donnelly, an official with Public Campaign, a nonprofit group that favors publicly financing candidates.
''People want the committee members to make these cuts in a fair and balanced way and be able to say, 'We listened to all sides, not just our donors,' '' he said. ''But it's hard to make that argument when they're racing around the country raising money like they're on a giant Monopoly board.''
One roadmap for cutting the debt comes in a 67-point plan sent to the committee last Friday by Third Way, an influential Democratic group.
The plan offers a glimpse into which sectors may be most vulnerable. In identifying $1.66 trillion in new revenues and spending cuts, the plan touches on everything from tax write-offs for Nascar racetracks to the future of the military's troubled V-22 Osprey aircraft program.
From Wall Street, private equity firms are offering data to lawmakers on the many people employed in their districts as a result of their industry's capital investments. The industry hopes to sit down soon with all 12 committee members in an effort to kill the proposal raising taxes on their sector, said Ken Spain, spokesman for the Private Equity Growth Capital Council.
The panel's top Democrat, Senator Patty Murray of Washington, has drawn particular scrutiny because of her dual role as a committee member and chairwoman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, the Democrats' fund-raising arm. While conservatives accuse her of a conflict, she has no plans to alter her role.
''She's not going to stop fund-raising,'' said Matt McAlvanah, a spokesman for Ms. Murray. ''She's always made her decisions based on the needs of her constituents, not on fund-raising or lobbying. It would be misguided to think that she's suddenly going to compromise her ideals now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The members, top from left, Representatives Chris Van Hollen, Dave Camp, James E. Clyburn, Fred Upton, Xavier Becerra and Jeb Hensarling
above from left, Senators Patty Murray, Jon Kyl, Max Baucus, Rob Portman, John Kerry and Patrick J. Toomey. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Top Donors to the Deficit Committee Members: The chart below shows the total amount contributed to the 12 members of the committee from 1989-2011* by the political action committees, employees and members of each organization. (Sources: Center for Responsive Politics
 MAPLight.org) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LOBBYING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); FILIBUSTER (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); ALCOHOLS (72%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (72%); MEDICARE (70%); PETITIONS (67%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (66%); APPROVALS (65%); ETHANOL (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%)

PERSON: PAT TOOMEY (88%); JOHN KERRY (79%); PATTY MURRAY (59%); JON KYL (58%); JAMES CLYBURN (58%); CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (58%); XAVIER BECERRA (58%); MAX BAUCUS (58%); ROB PORTMAN (58%); FRED UPTON (58%); JEB HENSARLING (58%); DAVE CAMP (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



953 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; I.H.T. SPECIAL REPORT: GLOBAL AGENDA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: NEWS ANALYSIS; Central Bank Constraints Leave Markets Adrift

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
They called it the ''Greenspan put,'' and it reassured a generation of traders. If economic storms were gathering, the top central banks -- most important the Federal Reserve, then led by Alan Greenspan -- could and would step in to prevent disaster.
Because the traders effectively had a put option, they could safely bet that the markets would survive even the worst crisis. 
This year, volatility has soared and share prices have fallen sharply, in part because few think there is a Bernanke put, or, for that matter, a Trichet put. It is far from clear that the authorities could stem a new panic, and even less clear that many would be willing to try.
In other words, the slogan for markets as the International Monetary Fund and World Bank meet this week in Washington could well be, ''You're on your own. Don't count on anybody to bail you out.''
The situation is thus drastically different from that of three years ago, when I.M.F.-World Bank meetings served as a forum to find joint strategies to ameliorate the financial crisis that had followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers.
Now there appears to be division and disarray within Europe and the United States. Central bank efforts to help the economy have become politically controversial, and there has been infighting at both the European Central Bank and the Federal Reserve.
At the European Central Bank, the departing president, Jean-Claude Trichet, has faced sniping from Germany and the resignation of Jurgen Stark, a German member of the bank's executive board. Mr. Stark cited personal reasons, but his departure was widely interpreted as a repudiation of the bank's purchases of bonds issued by troubled European nations.
At the Fed, Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman who succeeded Mr. Greenspan, has faced dissents within the central bank on recent efforts to stimulate the economy.
There was a long-lived bipartisan consensus in the United States -- it lasted at least from 1992, when Mr. Greenspan helped banks recover from bad loans to Latin American nations, through 2008 -- that the Fed was expected to steer the economy and would be treated gently by politicians.
Presidents tended to reappoint Fed chairmen, even those appointed by predecessors of the other political party, in part because of fear that markets would be outraged by any effort to politicize monetary policy. There have been six presidents since Paul A. Volcker took over at the Fed in 1979, but Mr. Bernanke is just the third chairman.
That consensus seems to have vanished, with candidates for the Republican presidential nomination vying with one another to show their hostility to Mr. Bernanke, even though he is a Republican who previously served as the chief economic adviser to President George W. Bush.
One candidate, Mitt Romney, has said he would ask Mr. Bernanke to resign. Another, Rick Perry, the governor of Texas, suggested that Mr. Bernanke might be trying to stimulate the economy to aid President Obama's re-election campaign. On Tuesday , Republican Congressional leaders took the extraordinary step of publicly calling for the Fed to do no more.
That did not stop the Fed from announcing some initiatives on Thursday, but they were relatively small and disappointing to investors. Share prices fell sharply after the announcement.
The political challenges may make it harder for the Fed to do much more over the next year, even if the economy is weaker than expected. Similarly, Mario Draghi, the Italian central banker who will take over from Mr. Trichet on Nov. 1, will be under great pressure from Germany to avoid actions that might increase inflation, even if they may be needed to prevent a new financial collapse.
At the same time, European governments have found it hard to agree on effective action. A July 21 agreement, which was supposed to provide money for Greece while limiting the losses for banks, has yet to be put in place, and markets seem convinced that a Greek default is inevitable. Italy is the latest country to find bond markets hesitant to provide funds.
European banks, many of which were slower than American ones to raise capital when investors grew more friendly in 2010, may need to be rescued again precisely because of fears that the rescuers of 2008 -- national governments -- may not be able to meet their obligations.
At a meeting of European finance ministers last week, Timothy F. Geithner, the United States Treasury secretary, pleaded for coordinated action. ''Governments and central banks need to take out the catastrophic risk to markets,'' he said. After he left, Austria's finance minister said Americans should stop lecturing Europe.
Those countries that can borrow money easily and cheaply -- most important, Germany and the United States -- are reluctant to do so, even with the threat of a new recession seeming to grow. The Germans argue that other European nations must cut back spending to regain competitiveness, that there is no gain without pain. Mr. Obama has proposed a new stimulus program, but it faces uncertain political prospects only weeks after the two parties agreed to seek consensus on ways to reduce government spending.
Large banks around the world have seized on the disarray of governments to begin campaigns to reduce regulation, complaining that new rules adopted after the 2008 debacle threaten growth. They want capital rules eased and hope that few will remember it was their excessive risk-taking, relative to the capital they had, that helped to create the 2008 disaster and that threatens a new one.
Some politicians join in that complaint, saying current problems stem from excessive government interference in the economy, particularly in free markets.
Those who remember the ''Greenspan put'' may find that argument odd. It is the fear that governments may not ride to the rescue that seems to have unnerved markets.
Perhaps it is the low expectations that provide the best hope for some kind of success at the meetings of the I.M.F. and the World Bank. Three years ago, it was widely expected that governments and central banks could act cooperatively and effectively. Now any indication they can still do so would come as a pleasant surprise.
Online Correction: September 21, 2011, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misstated the day Republican Congressional leaders called for the Fed to take no further action on economic stimulus. It was Tuesday, not Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jean-Claude Trichet, left, and Ben S. Bernanke have dealt with dissension at the European Central Bank and the Federal Reserve. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); APPOINTMENTS (87%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (86%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); POLITICS (70%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (62%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%); ALAN GREENSPAN (79%); MITT ROMNEY (77%); JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (74%); RICK PERRY (50%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



954 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Opposing Views on Perry as Job-Creating Master

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.

 BODY:
During Rick Perry's first political campaign almost 30 years ago, a supporter at one stop suggested he take credit for the rain that had broken a dry spell the night before. But his father warned, ''Son, you can take credit for the rain if you want, but they'll blame you for the drought.''
Lately Mr. Perry, the Texas governor and early leader in Republican presidential polls, has been taking quite a bit of credit of a different sort: for a strong jobs and economic record in Texas. 
But if the very latest economic data is any guide, he has left himself open to attack from opponents like Mitt Romney, as unemployment numbers for Texas have recently started heading upward.
Mr. Perry is basing his campaign to an extraordinary degree, if a recent swing through Iowa is any indication, on the contention that he is a job-creation sorcerer, conjuring new employment through smart stewardship of his executive duties in Texas, while avoiding discussing almost any other policy issue.
''Forty percent of all the jobs created in America since June of 2009 were in my home state,'' he said Friday during a coffee shop rally in Newton, Iowa.
But there are two main ways to measure employment and jobs, and it is by only one measure -- the one that Mr. Perry cites, which relies on surveys of company payrolls -- that the trend of late in Texas has been positive.
By the other measure -- total employment and the unemployment rate, which is based on surveys of families -- the state's numbers have unquestionably taken a recent turn for the worse, even as the national average has remained unchanged.
Texas, in fact, has about 80,000 fewer people employed now than in May, when total employment peaked, according to seasonally adjusted federal data through the end of last month. Some of that is explained by a decline of almost 30,000 in the labor force, but the main difference is simply that more people are unemployed.
The state's unemployment rate spiked to 8.5 percent in August, a jump from 7.7 percent from June 2009, the date Mr. Perry himself has chosen as a starting point for the job-growth phenomenon he frequently describes on the campaign trail.
Over the same period, the national unemployment rate has actually fallen by four-tenths of one percentage point to 9.1 percent, a rate that nevertheless remains above that of Texas. So the gap between the nation's high unemployment rate and Texas's rate has been narrowing.
The Texas-as-job-machine message also hit a bump on Friday when the state's work force commission reported that Texas actually lost 1,300 jobs during August, the first decline in nearly a year.
Over all, though, the number of jobs in Texas has been rising, but the number of people in the state who actually report that they are working has been declining since the spring. One possibility is that more people are working more than one job or that people who are self-employed -- and not counted in payroll data -- are not getting as much work. But economists say it is hard to figure what is going on.
''I have to admit we have looked at this, and we haven't solved it yet,'' said Mine K. Yucel, vice president and senior economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. She credits high oil prices, relative stability in the housing market and strong exports for recent growth in jobs, but cautioned that the state's economic future was tied to the fortunes of shaky national and global economies.
One possible explanation for the contradictory data, Ms. Yucel added, is that it comes from two different federal surveys that ''you would expect to be consistent, but they are not consistent all the time.''
Economists do pay more attention to the payroll numbers -- the ones Mr. Perry cites -- because that data is based on a larger sample.
Mr. Perry's claims about job creation are a common refrain on the campaign trail that resonates with those who turn out to support him -- so much so that it raises the question of whether he is putting too many eggs in one basket, especially with the nation potentially heading into a double-dip recession and the Republican nominating contests just months away.
On Wednesday Mr. Perry doubled down a day ahead of the Republican presidential debate, calling a rival, Mr. Romney, a ''flailing'' candidate who had the ''near worst-in-the-nation jobs record'' when he was Massachusetts governor, while promoting recent private sector jobs gains in Texas.
In a statement issued on Friday after Texas released its data showing the slight loss in jobs during August, the Perry campaign suggested that some blame lay with the ''misguided policies'' of the Obama administration because ''like every other state, Texas is not immune to the effects of the national recession.''
A Perry spokesman, Ray Sullivan, added in a separate e-mail that there was no danger in the governor basing so much of his campaign pitch on jobs and the economy.
''Texas has led the nation in job creation by a wide margin in recent years, even in recession, and that will not change in a matter of months,'' Mr. Sullivan said, adding that the state's ''low tax rates, fair and predictable regulatory climate, and high quality of life continue to attract employers and population at rapid rates.''
But on Wednesday, a Romney spokeswoman, Andrea Saul, sought to diminish Mr. Perry's economic record, describing him as a ''career politician whose own state's unemployment rate has doubled on his watch and is the worst in the region.''
Republican Debate: WHEN: Thursday, 9 p.m. Eastern time; WHERE: Orange County Convention Center, Orlando, Fla.; PARTICIPANTS: Michele Bachmann, Herman Cain, Newt Gingrich, Jon M. Huntsman Jr., Gary Johnson, Ron Paul, Rick Perry, Mitt Romney, Rick Santorum SPONSORS Fox News, Google and the Florida Republican Party; TV: Fox News; ON THE WEB: Live blogging and analysis: nytimes.com/politics

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Rick Perry boasts of his record as a job creator. But one measure suggests otherwise. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Unemployment Inching Up in Texas: Texas has had a lower unemployment rate than the United States has had since before the recession, but it has risen sharply since spring. (Source: Texas Workforce) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOB CREATION (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); DROUGHT (78%); WITCHCRAFT (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); TRENDS (74%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (93%); MITT ROMNEY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



955 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: Google's Competitors Square Off Against Its Leader

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR; .

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Good Google or bad Google?
Those two headline narratives competed for credibility in a three-hour hearing on Wednesday before a Senate antitrust panel, which heard testimony from Google's chairman, Eric E. Schmidt, and competitors of the search giant.
Google's story: The company is zealously dedicated to helping people find the most useful information on the Internet, and Google's prosperity and the economic opportunity it has created for many thousands of American businesses all flow from that high-minded mission. 
The rivals' rebuttal: Google increasingly tilts search results in favor of its own online commerce offerings like travel and shopping as it bundles those services into its industry-dominant search engine, limiting choice and stifling competition.
The Senate hearing has been the most prominent one yet in the debate about Google's business practices and their effect. Antitrust regulators in the United States and Europe are investigating Google as it steadily expands its business beyond search.
At the start, Senator Herb Kohl, Democrat of Wisconsin and chairman of the Judiciary's antitrust subcommittee, pointed to the potential conflict of interest. ''Is it possible,'' he asked, ''for Google to be both an unbiased search engine and at the same time own a vast portfolio of Web-based products and services?''
Later, he suggested that the profit motive would naturally tilt search results toward Google services. Not so, Mr. Schmidt replied. ''I'm not sure Google is a rational business trying to maximize its own profits,'' he said.
He never mentioned Microsoft by name, but his testimony was intended to draw a distinction between his company and the last technology powerhouse that was investigated, sued and found to have violated antitrust laws. That former innovator, Mr. Schmidt said, ''lost sight of what matters and Washington stepped in.''
Google, he said, has studied that history. ''We get it,'' Mr. Schmidt said. ''We get the lessons of our predecessors.'' Later, circling back to that theme, he said, ''One company's past needn't be another's future.''
Mr. Schmidt described the online economy as highly competitive, with users ''one click away'' from other sources of information. The many rivals include search engines like Microsoft's Bing, specialized review and listing sites like Yelp, comparison shopping sites like Nextag, online merchants like Amazon and social networks like Facebook. ''The Internet is the ultimate level playing field,'' he said.
There were a few testy moments. Mike Lee, Republican of Utah, showed a chart with the rankings for Google Product Search in hundreds of shopping searches, compared with the rankings of three comparison shopping sites, Nextag, Pricegrabber and Shopper. The rivals' rankings varied widely, while Google's service was consistently ranked third.
Mr. Schmidt first replied that the chart was an ''apples to oranges'' analogy, because the Google service steers users to specific products and is not a shopping comparison site.
Unconvinced, Mr. Lee said, ''You cooked it so you are always No. 3.''
Mr. Schmidt replied, his voice tightening, ''Senator, I can assure we haven't cooked anything.''
Google's competitors testified in a second panel, after Mr. Schmidt, an arrangement that Google requested and the subcommittee accepted. The competitors described a different world than Mr. Schmidt portrayed, saying Google has immense market power and uses it.
Jeffrey Katz, the chief executive of Nextag, said that Google was ''an outstanding partner to us for many years,'' but that the relationship has become strained as the search company expanded. Google's business interests, he said, conflict with its engineering commitment to an open-for-all Internet.
''But what Google engineering giveth, Google marketing taketh away,'' Mr. Katz said. ''Today, Google doesn't play fair. Google rigs its results, biasing in favor of Google Shopping and against competitors like us.''
The issue, he said in a separate interview, is subtle and does not affect all Google searches, mainly ones related to buying goods or services. ''When you search for 'running shoes' or 'digital camera,' Google transforms itself from an independent search engine to a commerce site,'' Mr. Katz said. ''But that is not what happens when you type in a search for, say, 'kidney dialysis.''' Jeremy Stoppelman, the chief of Yelp, said sites like his have to cooperate with Google because it is the gateway to so many users. About half of Yelp's visitors come through Google search.
Google, Mr. Stoppelman said, folds the reviews of other sites into its own offerings. ''Google forces review Web sites to provide their content for free to benefit Google's own competing product -- not consumers,'' he said. ''Google then gives its own product preferential treatment.''
Under questioning, both Internet entrepreneurs were asked, given Google's evolution, would they start their businesses today. They would not, they said. ''With Google taking so much of the real estate, I wouldn't do it today,'' Mr. Stoppelman replied.
Mr. Katz said Google should either give competitors in online commerce equal treatment in search results or clearly disclose its conflict of interest.
He punctuated his point by using the same phrasing Mr. Schmidt did when he testified. ''Level playing field, level playing field, level playing field,'' Mr. Katz said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eric E. Schmidt, the chairman of Google, appeared before a Senate antitrust panel Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEARCH ENGINES (91%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (76%); NEW ECONOMY (76%); CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (74%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (72%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (71%); HISTORY (61%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); FACEBOOK INC (51%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (91%); MIKE LEE (57%); HERB KOHL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



956 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: Mitt Romney Has Some Down-to-Earth Tastes, He'd Like You to Know

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER

 BODY:
Like the stars in Us Weekly, Mitt Romney wants voters to know that he is just like them.
Mr. Romney has tried the new $4.39 Carl's Jr. jalapeno chicken sandwich (''delicious''), celebrated the Reagan Library debate with fast-food burgers and fries (again, Carl's Jr.), and dug into a Subway flatbread sandwich while sitting in an airport terminal (''better than the usual campaign diet of morning donuts'').
These are all moments that he and his campaign have made a point of sharing with the public over Twitter. He has also taken a lot of flights on Southwest, an airline known for its low fares and primary-color planes, and made sure to tweet about it and name-check Southwest at every opportunity.
''I was on a flight this morning, a Southwest flight from Phoenix to, let's see, to Burbank, and -- no, it was to Orange County,'' Mr. Romney told CNN's Wolf Blitzer in an interview last Friday. 
In recent weeks, Mr. Romney's renovation of his $12 million home in the La Jolla section of San Diego has reinforced the fact that he is a wealthy man, forcing his campaign to work harder to avoid the implication that he is out of touch with the concerns of working people. (His quip in June to a group of jobless people in Florida that he, too, was unemployed did not help on that front.) Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, Mr. Romney's main competitor at the moment, is conspicuously trying to draw a contrast between his own roots (humble) and Mr. Romney's (less so).
Mr. Romney, meanwhile, has begun something of a self-initiated product-placement regimen in his campaign -- to sometimes awkward effect -- branding himself with less-than-luxury everyman labels.
His effort, and the response to it, highlight a vexing problem for Mr. Romney. Although he is becoming increasingly confident and relaxed on the campaign trail, he still sometimes appears as if he is trying too hard to connect, straining to show that even his perfectly coifed hair can fall out of place. Sparring with voters at town-hall-style meetings, he can come off as a scolding crossing guard, and some of his efforts at humor -- like the time he pretended that a waitress in a New Hampshire diner had pinched his bottom -- have fallen notably flat.
But to aides and friends of Mr. Romney, the situation is more complicated. They say this -- the Southwest flying, self-deprecating, penny-pinching guy -- is the real Mitt, the one they know in private, and if anything, he just wants a little public credit for some of the ''regular dude'' things he has always done.
Ron Kaufman, a longtime Romney adviser, recalled a moment in the 2008 presidential campaign, after Mr. Romney had withdrawn from the race and was in his Boston headquarters, helping to wind down his campaign. Senator John McCain of Arizona, to whom Mr. Romney had thrown his support, happened to be in Rhode Island campaigning that day and had offered to come up to Boston to meet with Mr. Romney. But Mr. Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, said he was not free, because he already had a flight booked to visit his son in California.
''We told him to change his flight,'' Mr. Kaufman said. ''And he said, 'Well, it's a cheap flight. It's a middle seat, but I got a great Jet Blue cheap rate.' '' (In the end, Mr. Romney switched his flight and met with Mr. McCain.)
Other aides recall Mr. Romney sitting in coach while offering his frequent-flier upgrades to staff members, or hanging out atop a coin-operated washer and dryer on the road, waiting for his clothes to dry.
Mitt-Romney-as-regular-guy, however, is proving something of a tough sell, despite his campaign's best efforts. Starting with his first political bid back in 1994, for the Senate seat held by Edward M. Kennedy, Mr. Romney has been defined as someone who is overly malleable for political reasons.
His critics view his new everyman routine as yet another example of what they believe to be Mr. Romney's inauthentic shape-shifting. After all, what are the chances that the son of a governor with a strapping, all-American family and a net worth hovering around $200 million is really just an average working stiff? (Days after news broke that Mr. Romney was planning to quadruple the size of his white sand oceanfront property in La Jolla, he hosted a business round table at the Common Man restaurant in New Hampshire, much to the delight of the reporters covering him.)
Mr. Romney's online regular-guy persona has become so prominent that bloggers and others have begun to publicly poke fun at it.
Matt Ortega, a former Democratic National Committee staff member, started a blog called Mitt's List, which mocks his Average Joe tweets, adding fake captions to the pictures Mr. Romney sends out. Below a photo of Mr. Romney at Fenway Park with some of his family and the Fox News Channel's Bill O'Reilly, Mr. Ortega wrote: ''Taking in a baseball game with the King of Millionaire Regular Guys, Bill O'Reilly! It was so exciting to see the Boston team score a goal point!'' And below a picture of Mr. Romney at Carl's Jr., Mr. Ortega added: ''I'm not used to my burgers being served wrapped in paper like that but it was a nice quaint touch!''
Mr. Ortega, who now works as a digital consultant and said he maintained the blog in his personal time, said, ''I don't know anybody, from anywhere, who tweets photos of themselves from Carl's Jr. like, 'Yeah, check me out!' ''
Mr. Romney's name-dropping of Carl's Jr. has been so stark that, when a reporter called the chain's corporate headquarters to confirm the price of a jalapeno chicken sandwich, the director of public relations replied, ''Ah, you must be following Romney.''
But, his aides insist, he really does eat fast food -- a virtual necessity of life on the campaign trail. He will always opt for the drive-through if it means he can spend more time shaking hands at an event, though he tries to make healthy choices, opting for grilled chicken sandwiches and peeling the skin off his fried chicken.
He has also bonded with his staff over their shared love of the Coen brothers, the filmmaking duo known for dark comedies and a cult following. Mr. Romney's favorite movie is ''O Brother, Where Art Thou?'' and he will frequently quote lines from it.
When the campaign is debating going in a certain direction or a new piece of strategy, Mr. Romney will sometimes joke, ''We're in a tight spot,'' a line George Clooney's character utters when the authorities are trying to smoke him and two fellow fugitives out of a house.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: On the Romney campaign: Loafers, khakis and a raw wood platform, as well as a professed liking for the food at Carl's Jr. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) CHART: Everyman Speaks (or at Least Tweets): Mitt Romney may be a multimillionaire who has been chided for renovating his $12 million oceanfront home in the La Jolla section of San Diego, but on Twitter he adopts a common-man persona. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); FAST FOOD (77%); AIRLINES (76%); AIRPORTS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); PRODUCT PLACEMENT (62%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); RICK PERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



957 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: More Young Adults Insured Since Health Law Took Effect

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

 BODY:
Young adults, long the group most likely to be uninsured, are gaining health coverage faster than expected since the 2010 health law began allowing parents to cover them as dependents on family policies.
Three new surveys, including two released on Wednesday, show that adults under 26 made significant and unique gains in insurance coverage in 2010 and the first half of 2011. One of them, by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, estimates that in the first quarter of 2011 there were 900,000 fewer uninsured adults in the 19-to-25 age bracket than in 2010.
This was despite deep hardship imposed by the recession, which has left young adults unemployed at nearly double the rate of older Americans, with incomes sliding far faster than the national average.
The Obama administration, intent on showcasing the benefits of a law that has been pilloried by Republicans, attributes the improvement to a provision of the Affordable Care Act that permits parents to cover dependents up to their 26th birthdays. Until that measure took effect one year ago this week, children typically had to roll off their parents' family policies at 18 or 21 or when they left college. 
Some twentysomethings adopted a posture of ''young invincibility,'' forgoing health insurance they could afford while gambling that they would not incur steep medical expenses. But others, like Kylie R. Logsdon, who credits the provision for enabling her heart transplant in July, were living with chronic or life-threatening conditions and had no prospects for coverage.
''I honestly don't know what we would have done,'' said Ms. Logsdon, 23, of Gerlaw, Ill., who gained coverage under her father's policy after losing her job as a legal secretary. ''There was no way we could have afforded it. I might not be here right now.''
Last week, the Census Bureau reported that the share of young adults without health insurance dropped in 2010 by 2 percentage points, to 27.2 percent. That decline meant that 502,000 fewer 18- to 24-year-olds were uninsured. Most gained coverage through private policies, not government programs.
For every other age group, the proportion without insurance increased, as high unemployment and contractions in employer coverage continued to take their toll. For the first time in more than 10 years, 18- to 24-year-olds were not the least insured group, having been overtaken by those 25 to 34.
Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services, accentuated the silver lining in an otherwise grim census poverty report by declaring: ''The Affordable Care Act is working.''
On Wednesday, the C.D.C. released its survey showing that the trend might have accelerated in the first quarter of 2011. That report, the National Health Interview Survey, which differs in methodology from the census count, estimates that 900,000 fewer adults ages 19 to 25 were uninsured in the first quarter of this year than in 2010. Also released Wednesday, a Gallup survey found similar rates in the second quarter of 2011.
The Department of Health and Human Services had projected last year that 650,000 uninsured would gain coverage in 2011 because of the provision.
Although cause and effect have not been proved, government officials and health industry analysts said they could not imagine another explanation for the change. In the census numbers, young adults were the only age bracket with an increasing share insured by employers (albeit presumably their parents' employers).
''It would be hard to construe it to be anything but the Affordable Care Act,'' said Mark F. Olson, a senior actuary with Towers Watson, the human resources consulting firm.
There have been no studies of the provision's impact on cost. But Mr. Olson and several insurance industry spokesmen credited it for raising enrollments and premiums by between 1 percent and 3 percent at many firms.
''It's a basic principle of economics that when more benefits are added to a policy or more people are covered under that policy there are additional costs incurred,'' said Robert Zirkelbach, a spokesman for America's Health Insurance Plans, the industry trade group. ''The cost impact is even greater to the extent 'adverse selection' occurs, meaning that only people who need health care services choose to enroll in their parents' plan.''
The dependent coverage provision allows parents to insure adult children even if the children are married. Children are not eligible if they have an offer of employer-based coverage.
Although the provision did not take effect until Sept. 23, many insurers voluntarily extended their dependent coverage months earlier. A majority of states had recently passed similar laws, but they had varying age limits and did not apply to some large insurance plans.
Advocacy groups have worked assiduously to educate students about the new provision. One of the groups, Young Invincibles, is running a campaign this week on 16 college campuses under the inevitable banner of ''Friends With Benefits.''
Miriam A. Brand, a senior at the University of Maryland, said it gave her profound peace of mind to know she could remain on her father's group insurance policy for several years while attending graduate school or searching for a first job, preferably in counseling. Ms. Brand, 22, has been managing Type 1 diabetes since she was 6, and she said her medications and supplies cost at least $8,000 a year.
''I'm not like most college students,'' Ms. Brand said. ''I don't have the luxury of putting medical care to the wayside. Now I have the gift of time in finding a job in this scary job market.''
Ms. Sebelius reinforced that point. ''In a world where great inventors, entrepreneurs and C.E.O.'s can be young or old,'' she told reporters on Wednesday, ''we can't take the chance that the next Facebook will never happen because its creator took a desk job just to get health insurance.''
The young adults provision is one of several measures in the health law designed as a stopgap until 2014, when the number of uninsured is expected to drop significantly.
Providing the act is not struck down by the Supreme Court or repealed by Congress, most Americans at that point will be required to obtain insurance. Pre-existing condition exclusions will be eliminated for adults, Medicaid eligibility will be expanded and government subsidies will make private coverage more affordable for many.
Not all of the stopgap measures have proved as popular as young adult coverage. The pre-existing condition insurance plans created under the law were projected to cover 375,000 otherwise uninsurable people in 2010. Only 30,000 had signed up as of July.
Because entry-level jobs frequently do not have health benefits, and individual policies can be unaffordable on a starting salary, the rate of young adults without coverage is nearly double the national average. A Commonwealth Fund survey found that 45 percent of young adults reported delaying medical care because of cost in 2010, up from 32 percent in 2001.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Miriam A. Brand, 22, a college senior with Type 1 diabetes, is relieved that she can stay on her father's insurance after graduation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) CHART: Fighting the Trend: Health insurance coverage among young adults ages 18 to 24 showed an improvement from 2009 to 2010, trading places with adults ages 25 to 34 as the group with the highest rate of being uninsured. (Source: Census Bureau) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); FAMILY (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (89%); CENSUS (86%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); TRENDS (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); INTERVIEWS (68%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



958 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STATE OF THE ART; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: No Cards, No Cash. Just a Phone.

BYLINE: By DAVID POGUE. 
E-mail: pogue@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Plenty of companies would love to get their hands on our wallets. But Google wants to go one step further: it wants to be our wallets.
Its new phone software, called Google Wallet, is intended to replace the credit cards in our actual wallets.
It does sound pretty spectacular, doesn't it? No fishing plastic cards out of wallets, no paper slips, no signatures. Everything is handled securely, instantly, conveniently, with one tap of your phone at the register.
Europeans and Asians already routinely pay for things that way. Why can't we have that in America?
Now you can. But there are enough footnotes to fill a podiatry journal. 
At the moment, the free Google Wallet app runs on only a single cellphone model: Sprint's Google Nexus S, which runs Google's Android software. That's because Google Wallet requires a special N.F.C. chip (near-field communications), and the Nexus S is one of the few phones so equipped.
Someday, Google says, many more phones will have N.F.C. chips. The company says that it's in talks with every major Android phone maker.
The next question: Where can you use Wallet to pay for things? Google had the inspired idea of teaming up with MasterCard, which has already installed N.F.C. readers at 150,000 merchants in the United States and 230,000 overseas. You can see the black MasterCard PayPass terminals all over the place.
That's 150,000 companies; the total number of physical stores is far higher. At the moment, they include CVS, Duane Reade, RadioShack, Sunoco, Sports Authority, Foot Locker and New York City taxis. In coming weeks, Google says, more stores will come along, including Subway, Macy's, Walgreens and Bloomingdale's.
Someday, Google says, the readers will be installed at cash registers all across this great land.
Think of Wallet as a copy of your actual credit card. Wherever you might swipe a credit card, you can tap your phone instead. At the moment, though, the only credit card Wallet can impersonate is a Citibank MasterCard.
Someday, Google says, all kinds of credit cards from all kinds of banks will work with Wallet.
If you don't have a Citibank MasterCard, you can still use Wallet. On the screen where you select which credit card you want to use, you'll find an imaginary one called Google Prepaid Card. It comes with $10 of credit -- Google's gift to you, O Early Adopter -- but right there on the phone, you can preload it with more money from another credit card.
All right. So you're in CVS or 7-Eleven, and the cashier announces the total, ''$31.24.'' At the exact moment when you would ordinarily swipe your credit card, you simply turn on the phone. (You don't have to fire up the Wallet app first.) You hold it against the PayPass terminal and enter your four-digit password. The screen says ''Sent,'' and the terminal's screen says ''Authorizing ... Approved ... Balance $0. Thank you!''
Security, Google says, is baked into the system from the beginning. The phone's N.F.C. chip is completely deactivated when the screen is off. That's to prevent sneaky evildoers from ''skimming'' (reading) your credit card information.
A shame, really; Google says that the N.F.C. chip could work even when the phone was off, meaning you could keep using it to buy things. But Google chose to emphasize security over convenience; as a result, the phone is useless as a wallet once its battery is dead.
The pass code requirement is intended to prevent people from buying stuff with your phone if it's lost or stolen, since they won't know the code. (And if they guess wrong five times in a row, the whole Wallet becomes unusable. You have to contact Google and explain yourself.)
Of course, the four-digit pass code requirement also sucks most of the fun and convenience out of the whole phone-as-wallet concept. Tapping out the pass code on small keys on a not-always-responsive touch screen is a hassle, and not demonstrably faster than signing a regular credit card slip. Why can't we disable that requirement according to our own paranoia levels?
You can't even pick an easy-to-type pass code to save yourself effort; Wallet won't accept codes like 1234 or 1111.
(Besides, the stolen-phone defense doesn't hold water. Trust me: if you lose your phone, you'll know it. You'll be on your bank's customer service hot line to freeze your account before you can say, ''my stomach is in knots.'')
So if Wallet isn't vastly more convenient than swiping a credit card, what's the point?
Google has an answer for that: SingleTap.
That's the next generation of merchant participation. In SingleTap establishments, Wallet is more than a credit card stunt double. It also stores digital coupons, loyalty points cards and Groupon-style special deals. (Already, Google's shameless Groupon imitator, called Google Offers, is automatically linked to Google Wallet. Offers is available in only a few cities at this point.)
When you tap your phone at the register, you simultaneously pay for your purchase and get the promised discounts and frequent-shopper points. One tap instead of fumbling with four cards.
At the moment, very few chains offer SingleTap; they include American Eagle, Jamba Juice, OfficeMax and Toys ''R'' Us. (You can still use your Google Offers at other stores, but you have to show the code on your phone to the cashier instead of passing it along electronically.)
Someday, Google says, SingleTap will be everywhere. It says that 30 merchants have already committed to adding this feature, although the necessary upgrades in hardware and software at the registers could take time.
At that point Wallet will be much more than a glorified credit card. It will be the cornerstone of a huge economic ecosystem of banks, merchants, advertisers and other companies. It will replace everything in your wallet: tickets, boarding passes, transit cards. All electronic, all secure, all wireless and easy.
Someday, Google says, you might wind up walking down the aisles of Best Buy. If you've permitted it, the phone will know where you are in the store. It will know you're in the TV section. An offer will appear on your phone, offering $600 off a certain Panasonic TV if you buy in the next 30 minutes. You'll walk to the cashier on the spot, buy that TV and enjoy that savings.
For now, Google freely admits that today's Wallet is only a crude, Neanderthal 1.0 version. It works only on a single phone, from a single carrier, with a single credit card, at a small subset of the places where you might like to pay for things. ''We beg of you to understand that this is a long road,'' says a product manager. ''We have to take the first steps to make it a reality.''
Google isn't saying that this version of Wallet is a ''beta'' (testing) version, as it loves to do with other services, even years after their introduction. But it should have. Using Wallet is generally pleasant and swift, but on several occasions, I'd enter my pass code and stand there stupidly, holding up the line behind me, while the screen said, ''Unlocking Google Wallet'' and whirred away endlessly. Google says I was holding the phone too close to the reader when entering my code. (Shouldn't the phone have just said so?)
But it would be great if all of those ''someday, Google says'' wishes came true. It would be great to carry a thinner wallet, to forget about paper receipts and coupons, to have a secure paper trail of every purchase, to save money by incorporating more special deals into everyday shopping.
Until then, for those lucky few who have Sprint, who bought Nexus S phones, who shop at one of the select merchants, who have a Citibank MasterCard, Wallet is a clean, well-designed glimpse into the great someday of everyday payments.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Google Wallet in use at a cash register. Its use is limited at the moment, but Google hopes that one day it will replace money, tickets, receipts and more. (B7) DRAWING (DRAWING BY STUART GOLDENBERG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); CONTACTLESS PAYMENTS (77%); SMARTPHONES (77%); ELECTRONIC WALLETS (73%); PREPAID CARDS (72%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (72%); PODIATRY (69%); NEAR FIELD COMMUNICATIONS (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (67%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%); MASTERCARD INC (86%); RADIOSHACK CORP (53%); 7-ELEVEN INC (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%); MA (NYSE) (86%); RSH (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (86%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (86%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (53%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (50%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (50%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



959 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: Taxes, the Deficit and the Economy: President Obama's tax proposals are fair, and based on sound economics

 BODY:
Republicans, predictably, are denouncing President Obama's proposal to raise taxes on wealthy Americans and corporations to help wrestle down the nation's budget deficit and pay for his job creation plan.
There was the usual silly talk about class warfare against the rich. But the politicians insisted that their real concern was for middle-class Americans and the economy. Rick Perry said the president's plan ''penalizes investment when it is needed most.'' Mitt Romney blasted the plan's ''crushing impact on economic growth.'' A spokesman for John Boehner, the House speaker, called it a collection of ''job-killing small-business tax hikes.''
Americans need to take a close look at what Mr. Obama is calling for: a broad tax reform that raises $1.5 trillion over a decade but allows for lower rates on businesses and individuals by cutting tax breaks and loopholes for special interests, and that restores some fairness to a system in which millionaires and billionaires pay lower tax rates than middle-class families. 
Republicans want to close the entire budget gap by slashing government spending. The president's balanced approach protects vital services and growth. It includes $245 billion in payroll tax cuts next year for workers and businesses to encourage hiring, investment and spending. It also includes money to invest in infrastructure and to aid struggling states. It only starts reducing the budget deficit in 2013, when the economy should be stronger.
As is his wont, the president is still leaving too many details for Congress to decide. But here is a closer look at some of the ideas he has put on the table:
HIGHER TAXES FOR THE RICH The Obama plan would allow the Bush tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans -- individuals earning more than $200,000 a year and households earning more than $250,000 -- to expire at the end of 2012. That would restore the top two marginal tax rates to 36 percent and 39.6 percent, up from 33 percent and 35 percent today. It would also restore the estate tax, which vanished completely in 2010, and raise the capital gains tax on wealthy individuals from 15 percent to 20 percent.
The full Bush-era tax cuts were the single biggest contributor to the deficit over the past decade, reducing revenues by about $1.8 trillion between 2002 and 2009. The White House estimates that Mr. Obama's plan would raise $866 billion over the next decade, or nearly half of that.
As for the supposed job-killing effects, President Bill Clinton raised tax rates to where Mr. Obama wants to restore them now, and the economy grew faster and added many more jobs during those eight years than it did after President George W. Bush slashed taxes across the board.
Republicans are undaunted. Their main claim -- delivered in a conveniently populist tone -- is that the higher rates will penalize small businesses that file as individuals. Small businesses are undeniably major engines of job creation. But only about 2.5 percent of all small-business owners (and 4 percent of those reporting positive income) earn enough to be taxed at the top two rates, according to the Treasury's Office of Tax Analysis. Even more important, the argument ignores the fact that the higher income tax rate would apply to business profits, not revenues. Small businesses would still be able to deduct or amortize payrolls and investments.
Critics also claim that raising the capital gains rate would hamstring investment. But economists studying the historical record have concluded that the effect is small, dwarfed by considerations like profit growth. The truth is that despite the current low tax rates, American businesses -- small and big -- are investing very little. Business surveys show that the main reason is that there are very few customers with money to buy their products.
THE 'BUFFETT RULE' President Obama has said that tax reform should follow the principle that no household making $1 million or more should pay a smaller share of its income in taxes than a middle-class family. Republicans say this is an act of ''class warfare.'' But it is clearly unjust to have a tax system that, today, allows 22,000 households earning more than $1 million to pay less than 15 percent of their income in federal income and payroll taxes -- less than half of what a middle-class family pays.
Mr. Obama did not specify how he would satisfy the Buffett rule. Allowing the Bush-era tax cuts for the wealthy to expire would go some way in this direction. So would his proposal to require managers of hedge funds, private equity funds and other investment vehicles to pay standard income taxes on their pay, rather than paying at the much lower capital gains rate.
CAPPING DEDUCTIONS FOR THE WEALTHY Many wealthy Americans reap bigger gains from their tax deductions -- of mortgage payments, charitable contributions and the like -- than the middle class. Taxed at the top marginal rate of 35 percent, they get back 35 cents out of every dollar of authorized deductions. Middle-class filers, who pay a marginal rate of 28 percent, get only 28 cents back.
The president's proposal would cap the benefit at 28 percent for wealthy taxpayers, raising about $410 billion over 10 years, according to the White House. The idea tracks those proposed by Martin Feldstein, Glenn Hubbard and Greg Mankiw, top economic advisers to Presidents Ronald Reagan and George W. Bush.
CORPORATE LOOPHOLES Mr. Obama is also calling for eliminating unnecessary tax breaks and subsidies for oil companies, the coal industry and others to raise about $300 billion over 10 years. That is drawing fierce criticism from Republicans and some Democrats, eager to shield big campaign donors. These scams need to go.
Mr. Obama was right when he told Congress that the country has choices to make. ''Should we keep tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires? Or should we put teachers back to work so our kids can graduate ready for college and good jobs? Right now, we can't afford to do both.'' His argument is sound, and so is the economics behind it. That won't stop his critics. He needs to keep pushing back.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (92%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); TAX REFORM (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); POLITICS (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); CORPORATE TAX (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (78%); FAMILY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); BILL CLINTON (59%); JOHN BOEHNER (59%); RICK PERRY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



960 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: Fed Will Shift Debt Holdings To Lift Growth

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM; Jennifer Steinhauer contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve announced an unconventional plan on Wednesday to reduce borrowing costs for businesses and consumers, trying once more to spur economic growth despite urgings from Republicans that it refrain from any expansion of its stimulus program.
The Fed said that it would invest $400 billion in long-term Treasury securities over the next nine months, using money raised by selling its holdings of short-term federal debt, in an attempt to drive down interest rates on mortgage loans, corporate bonds and other forms of credit. 
The Fed's policy-making committee said in a statement that it was acting because it saw little prospect that the economy would expand fast enough and soon enough to help the 25 million Americans unable to find full-time work. It also said there was a significant risk that ''strains in global financial markets'' could further damage prospects for recovery.
''Growth remains slow. Recent indicators point to continuing weakness in overall labor market conditions and the unemployment rate remains elevated,'' the Fed said in the statement, which listed its reasons for worrying about the anemic condition of the American economy. ''Household spending has been increasing at only a modest pace in recent months.''
The markets responded with mixed signals. Bond investors already had driven down interest rates in expectation of the Fed's announcement, but rates fell further on Wednesday, reflecting a measure of surprise about the size of the plan. Investors in the stock markets appeared more concerned about the bleak outlook for the economy and Europe's, as the major domestic indexes fell sharply.
Lower rates may encourage companies to invest in equipment and hire more workers, and consumers to start spending again on homes and cars and vacations. But tough lending standards are likely to limit the benefits. Loans already are cheap, but they are also hard to get.
''Only history will be able to gauge Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke's success or failure,'' Diane Swonk, chief economist at Mesirow Financial in Chicago, wrote in a note commenting on the committee's decision. ''No one will question his willingness to try.''
Three members of the 10-member Federal Open Market Committee dissented from the decision, just as they had with the committee's last aid effort, in August, but their concerns did not seem to restrain the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke. The committee's statement noted only that they ''did not support additional policy accommodation at this time.''
Republican politicians, meanwhile, reiterated their argument, put forth late Tuesday in a letter sent to the Fed from four Republican leaders, that the Fed's efforts were not helping the economy and could have harmful consequences.
''I am absolutely convinced that the challenges in our economy are not a phenomenon that can be addressed by monetary policy,'' said Representative Jeb Hensarling, a Texas Republican who is a member of the special deficit reduction committee.
Some liberals said the Fed had not done enough. ''Today's action by the Federal Reserve is not bold and will not create the millions of jobs that America needs,'' said Senator Bernard Sanders, an independent from Vermont.
The new effort is an experiment without a direct precedent, although the Fed tried something similar in the 1960s. Essentially, the Fed hopes to drive down rates not by expanding its portfolio, as it has done twice in recent years, but by shifting its money into riskier long-term investments.
The Fed has amassed more than $1.6 trillion of federal debt. It said Wednesday that by June 2012 it would sell $400 billion in securities with remaining maturities of less than three years and buy roughly the same amount in securities with maturities longer than six years. It said the result would shift the average maturity of its holdings to 100 months, or more than eight years, from the current average of 75 months, or just over six years.
Separately, the Fed said it would maintain its investments in mortgage-backed securities at the current level of about $885 billion, ending a policy that had allowed the portfolio to shrink by $100 billion so far this year, to push down mortgage rates with particular force. While rates are already at record lows, reducing rates even further is the only tool available to the Fed.
Economists project the Fed's efforts could reduce interest rates by a few tenths of a percentage point, a significant increment when multiplied by the vast extent of borrowing.
Macroeconomic Advisers, the St. Louis forecasting firm, estimated in advance of the Fed's announcement -- based on its best guess about the details of such a program -- that the Fed's efforts could add about 0.4 percentage points to economic output and create about 350,000 jobs over the next two years.
Other economists, however, predicted a smaller economic impact. They noted that lower interest rates so far had not produced the full measure of predicted benefits because lending standards remained unusually strict.
Most outstanding mortgages still carry interest rates above 5 percent, despite the availability of lower rates, because it remains difficult to refinance.
The Fed already is engaged in an enormous effort to stimulate growth. Most recently, the Fed announced in August that it intended to hold short-term interest rates near zero until at least the middle of 2013, extending a policy that has been in place since December 2008.
The central bank's latest efforts are unfolding in an environment of heightened political pressures. As Democrats and Republicans battle over the role of government in improving the economy, both parties are seeking to influence the Fed's decisions.
Republican presidential candidates have made criticism of the Fed a central theme of the early campaign.,
Some Democrats, meanwhile, have accused the central bank of being too cautious. Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, the ranking Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee, has proposed legislation that would remove the presidents of regional Federal Reserve banks from their seats on the policy-making committee. The 12 presidents of regional banks, who are elected in part by local businesses, now fill five seats on the committee on a rotating basis. The rest of the members of the policy-making committee are governors of the Federal Reserve board.
The regional bank presidents tend to be more concerned about inflation and less concerned about unemployment. Mr. Frank has described their participation as ''undemocratic'' and said it was impeding the Fed's ability to pursue all the measures he considered necessary to support an economic recovery.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, which said it saw little prospect that the economy would expand quickly soon. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN ERNST/REUTERS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BONDS (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (69%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (67%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



961 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: A Few Words With Iran's President

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
Before sparks began flying between me and President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran, he began my interview with an unusual olive branch: ''I would like to, with your permission, greet all of your readers as well as Web viewers and wish all of them the success and blessings of the Almighty.''
Mr. Ahmadinejad is a complex, even bizarre, figure. A firebrand with a penchant for making explosive public statements, he is small in person, subdued and very soft-spoken. Even when I pushed him hard on human rights abuses and nuclear deceptions, he responded in even tones while claiming that Iran is manifestly more democratic than the United States. 
Another olive branch came hours after our conversation with the release of the two American hikers who had been imprisoned unjustly for two years in Iran. Mr. Ahmadinejad didn't even attempt to suggest that they were spies, but he bristled at my questions about them. He claimed that they had entered Iran illegally and would have merited punishment in any country.
This was Mr. Ahmadinejad's only print interview on his visit to the United Nations General Assembly, and he made a significant effort to be friendly and conciliatory. Most important, he repeated an offer made in a Washington Post interview this month to stop all nuclear enrichment if the West would supply nuclear fuel enriched to a 20 percent level. He insisted that Iran will happily give up its enrichment processing if it can get this enriched uranium for ''cancer treatment medication.''
''If they were willing to sell us the 20 percent enriched uranium, we would have preferred to buy it,'' he said. ''It would have been far less expensive. It's as though you wish to purchase a vehicle for yourself. No one is willing to sell it to you, then you must set up your own production line to produce your own vehicle.''
This sounds very much like an incipient deal that Mr. Ahmadinejad initially welcomed two years ago but was later scotched by the country's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. The chief of Iran's nuclear program, Fereydoon Abbasi, seemed to reiterate recently that any such deal was dead.
But when I raised those points, Mr. Ahmadinejad insisted that there had never been any daylight between himself and the supreme leader on the nuclear issue and that Mr. Abbasi was not opposed today. When I asked skeptically if Mr. Ahmadinejad spoke for the full Iranian leadership, there was a flash of resentment at the question. He insisted that he did, indeed, have full authority.
Is this a real offer to stop all enrichment? I don't know, but it's worth it for the West to pursue it -- without easing sanctions in the meantime. One question is how the West could verify an end to enrichment. I asked Mr. Ahmadinejad about that and noted Iran's history of deceptions.
''We have done nothing wrong,'' he said, denying sharply that his country had hidden anything.
Mr. Ahmadinejad called for Syria, his ally, to stop its violent crackdown on protesters, cautioning that ''with clashes and confrontations problems will not be solved. They will be multiplied.''
Oh? What's the difference with Mr. Ahmadinejad's own harsh crackdown on dissidents?
''In Iran, things were quite different,'' he insisted, a bit testy. Many of the dead in Iran were members of security forces, he claimed, suggesting that protesters were not deliberately targeted.
I asked Mr. Ahmadinejad what he thought when he saw the famous photos of a young woman, Neda Agha-Soltan, lying on the ground and bleeding to death after she had been shot in the chest.
A hint of sadness crossed Mr. Ahmadinejad's face. I thought, for a moment, that he was going to apologize. Instead, he constructed his own reality: He suggested that she had been murdered by his opponents, working with the BBC, as part of a bizarre snuff film.
''We do search for those who are truly guilty of murdering this young lady,'' he said.
Our interview became more confrontational, and we tussled over Iran's repression of the Bahai faith and other human rights issues. Mr. Ahmadinejad's minders were signaling that the interview was ending, but he seemed to enjoy the give-and-take and ignored them.
Mr. Ahmadinejad also indulged in a bit of triumphalism. He acknowledged that the West's ''crippling'' sanctions against Iran had ''worked well.'' But he added: ''Does Iran face more problems or the United States of America?'' He referred to the ''collapse'' of the American financial system and suggested that Iran's economy is in better shape.
He added that the West will be driven by its weakness to ''seek a rapprochement with Iran.''
Then the interview was over, and Mr. Ahmadinejad zoomed back from bombast to conciliation. He beamed and told me: ''We truly like and love the people of the United States.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (55%); CANCER (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (91%); ALI KHAMENEI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



962 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MAN IN THE NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: Taking a Stand, and Shedding Arafat's Shadow

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR and ETHAN BRONNER; Neil MacFarquhar reported from the United Nations, and Ethan Bronner from Jerusalem. Isabel Kershner contributed reporting from Jerusalem, and Fares Akram from Gaza.

 BODY:
UNITED NATIONS -- At the baronial Morgan Library in Midtown Manhattan the other night, President Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian leader, stood quietly along the edge of a diplomatic reception, avoiding the animated gossip and flowing Champagne.
Only when the host noted that Mr. Abbas was in the room, and expressed hope that his quest for Palestinian membership in the United Nations would produce real sovereignty, did the crowd take notice.
For decades, the defiant, charismatic and unpredictable Yasir Arafat, always in military uniform, needed no introduction. Seven years after Mr. Arafat's death, Mr. Abbas, a gray man of sober suits and sensible shoes, may now be slowly emerging from his shadow.
In bringing his cause to the United Nations despite intense American pressure, Mr. Abbas has captivated the annual General Assembly gathering, bolstered the flagging devotion of his people and even cornered his rivals in Hamas. The question is whether this moment of unparalleled prestige for the Palestinian leader will produce concrete results or a new and more dangerous set of risks. 
Here in New York, leaders are lining up to meet with Mr. Abbas, the central protagonist in the session's chief drama. In the West Bank and Gaza, Palestinians are offering rare praise for a leader who has mostly been seen as Hamlet-like in his indecision, trying too hard to please the Americans and the Israelis.
''We never thought of him as having his finger on the pulse of the Palestinian people the way Arafat did,'' said Sandra Tannouf, a 17-year-old student at a West Bank rally supporting the United Nations move. ''He never filled the gap left by him, but I fully support this step. Maybe we will get our country back.''
Ms. Tannouf was standing among tens of thousands of fellow supporters, Palestinian flags fluttering, bands playing, and banners of Mr. Arafat and Mr. Abbas covering the sides of buildings.
Schools, universities and ministries closed early to assure a crowd, but an opinion survey released on Wednesday showed that may have been unnecessary; more than 80 percent of the population is behind the move. Mr. Abbas is also comfortably outpolling his Hamas rival in both the West Bank and Gaza.
The same survey, however, suggests why many Western diplomats fear the good feelings cannot last. Asked what should happen after a United Nations vote, three quarters of Palestinians said they should impose their sovereignty over the West Bank, even if it leads to confrontations with Israeli soldiers and settlers.
Mr. Abbas says the opposite -- the United Nations move is not a substitute to negotiations with Israel but a prelude to more of them.
''For three-quarters of the public, going to the United Nations is about exercising sovereignty,'' Khalil Shikaki, a political scientist and the director of the opinion survey, said by telephone. ''He is a hero for this. But he doesn't evoke emotions, he is not a great communicator and he lacks charisma. The people simply support his policy. The problem is that there is a disconnect between what he wants and what the public wants. And that could come back to haunt him.''
Rana Baker, a 20-year-old student in Gaza City, showed how that disconnect is functioning.
''There is only one good thing in the bid for the U.N.,'' she said. ''Abbas has finally understood that negotiations are useless. I'm against the two-state solution because it gives us some 22 percent of Palestine's land and that state would be cut by settlements.''
Mr. Abbas, 76, has repeatedly expressed a desire to retire from public life, and he is widely thought to be focused less on the next step than on his legacy. That may be partly what persuaded him to appeal to the United Nations. Fruitless negotiations with Israel made him feel as if he had little choice -- and little to lose -- by taking his case to the sympathetic world forum.
At times recently, this moody, brooding man seems to have found a kind of liberation, evident in a spring in his step, in deciding to defy Washington and force his people's plight into international consciousness. He has displayed humor. At other times, however, he has seemed utterly lonely.
He took umbrage on Tuesday night at the Morgan Library when asked if he had taken an uncharacteristically confrontational approach.
''Confrontational step? How?'' he asked. ''I am confronting whom? I am not confronting anybody. I am talking openly to everybody that I want peace.''
Shimon Peres, Israel's president, met secretly with Mr. Abbas three times in recent months in efforts to bridge the gaps between the Palestinians and the Israeli government of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and avoid a United Nations battle. Mr. Netanyahu ultimately pulled the plug on those talks, leaving Mr. Abbas a sense of having no alternatives.
Mr. Peres said in an interview in Jerusalem that he tried to convince Mr. Abbas that United Nations membership would not help because what is needed is independence for the Palestinians and security for the Israelis, and the United Nations can deliver neither.
''He told me, 'I'm alone, betrayed by the United States, betrayed by Israel and by everyone else,' '' Mr. Peres recalled from a recent conversation.
Mr. Abbas echoed those sentiments on Tuesday night. Terje Roed-Larsen, a former United Nations envoy to the Mideast who now leads the International Peace Institute in New York, hugged him and asked for a meeting later in the evening.
''Tonight our schedule is full with the Americans,'' Mr. Abbas replied. ''They want us to meet, but we don't, really we don't want.''
Mr. Larsen asked why he was going then. ''I don't know why really,'' Mr. Abbas said, ''I am not happy with anybody, not with the Americans, nor the Arabs. I am fed up with all these people and I don't know what to do when I return back.''
Mr. Abbas has worked hard to counter Hamas's focus on resistance and instill a political culture of nonviolence among Palestinians after the bloody uprising that began in late 2000. Normality, with a strong security force and developing economy, has started to set in. Mr. Shikaki, the pollster, said that Mr. Abbas arrived at a time when the public was fatigued with violence ''so his message fell on fertile ground.'' He added that the recent events in Tahrir Square in Cairo also inspired Palestinians.
''The majority believes that if there are peaceful demonstrations, even nonconfrontational ones, this will speed up an ending to the occupation,'' he said. ''In 20 years, I have never seen that much confidence in the efficacy of nonviolence. I would give him some credit for that change.''
He added that the big concern remained what happens after a United Nations vote, likely to take place in the coming weeks. If, some months later, nothing has changed on the ground, not only is Mr. Abbas likely to lose his popularity but frustration could also lead to violence and Hamas may be the beneficiary.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Palestinians rallied Wednesday in Hebron, West Bank, to support the bid for statehood. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RINA CASTELNUOVO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HAMAS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (79%); ARMED FORCES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); HAMAS (56%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



963 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: Can the I.M.F. Save the World?

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: Europe is in financial disarray, and its political leaders are unable to move as quickly as its crisis warrants, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
The finance ministers and central bank governors of the world gather this weekend in Washington for the annual meeting of countries that are shareholders in the International Monetary Fund. As financial turmoil continues unabated around the world and with the I.M.F.'s newly lowered growth forecasts to concentrate the mind, perhaps this is a good time for the fund - or someone - to save the world.
Yet there are three problems with this way of thinking. At least in a short-term macroeconomic sense, the world does not really need saving. If the problems do escalate, the monetary fund does not have enough money to make a difference. And the big dangers are primarily European -- the European Union and key euro zone members have to work out some difficult political issues, and their delays are hurting the global economy. 
But very little can be done to push them in the right direction.
The world's economy is slowing, without a doubt. The latest quantification was provided Tuesday in the I.M.F.'s World Economic Outlook (see Table 1.1), perhaps the most comprehensive forecast of global growth and its main components. (Disclosure: I helped produce and present these forecasts when I was chief economist at the I.M.F., a position I left in summer 2008.)
The fund has reduced its forecasts for both 2011 and 2012, and while the latter is a more notable change, we can see the gloomy 2011 picture all around us. Compared with its view in June, the fund now expects global growth in 2012 to be one-half of one percentage point lower than previously expected. 
Part of the pessimism is about the United States - total growth of gross domestic product in 2012 is expected to be only 1.8 percent, anemic at best. (Remember that our population typically grows at just under 1 percent annually, so this level of growth would barely put a dent in unemployment.)
But the really stark message is for Europe. According to the I.M.F., the euro zone as a whole will expand only 1.1 percent in 2012, and hopes that troubled countries will grow out their debts seem increasingly like a stretch. Just to take one example, Italy's forecast for 2012 has been marked down to just 0.3 percent -- and even in the best case, credit availability in Italy will probably get tighter over the coming months, which may further slow growth.
A potential recession in the euro zone and a weak recovery in the United States does not make for a world crisis. So beware people who demand that the world be saved; usually they are making the case for a bailout of some kind.
Don't get me wrong -- a serious crisis could develop. Plenty of warning signs regarding the situation in Greece and its potentially broader impact abound. 
According to the fund's Fiscal Monitor, also released this week (see Page 79), Greece's general gross government debt is now forecast to rise to nearly 190 percent of G.D.P. in 2012 before falling back toward 160 percent by the end of 2016. At this point, Greece needs a global growth miracle -- and there is no sign of this on the horizon.
If Greece pays less on its debt than is currently expected, this will push down the market value of other sovereign debt in Europe. As The Economist asserted last week, the government debt of some large euro zone countries has unambiguously moved from the category of "risk-free" to "risky" in the minds of investors.
The numbers involved are big. Italy, for example, had public debt of more than 1.84 trillion euros at the end of 2010 (using the latest available Eurostat data, "general government gross debt," annual series). The G.D.P. of Germany is around 2.5 trillion euros, and there is no way German taxpayers would be comfortable in any way guaranteeing a substantial part of Italy's debt. 
The entire euro zone has a G.D.P. of around 9.5 trillion euros, but no one is volunteering to take on debt issued by someone else's government (again, I use end-of-2010 data from Eurostat).
To put these issues in perspective, compare them with the International Monetary Fund's ability to lend to countries in trouble. The technical term is the fund's "one year forward commitment capacity," which for "Q3 to date" is 246 billion special drawing rights, or S.D.R.'s, which exist only at the I.M.F. (see the Sept. 15 update). 
On Sept. 20, one S.D.R. was worth 1.57154 United States dollars, so the fund could lend no more than $386 billion. With one euro worth about $1.37 this week, this is around 280 billion euros. 
Or you could think of it as 15 percent of Italy's outstanding debt. This is not the only way -- and not a precise way -- to think about what the fund could bring to the table, financially speaking. But it makes the right point. The European issue is way above the I.M.F.'s pay grade. 
Germany, France, Italy and their neighbors need to sort out how to bring the situation under control - to decide who will definitely pay all their debts and who needs some kind of restructuring. About a quarter of the world's economy therefore remains in limbo, beset by repeated waves of uncertainty. And financial market fears can spread to other places, including the United States.
Complaints may be heard this weekend, but no one at the I.M.F. meetings can persuade the key European players to move faster in their decision-making. The politicians will take their own time - prodded periodically, no doubt, by the financial markets. 
Do not expect a fast resolution or a quick turnaround in the global economy.

        
What Next for Greece and for Europe?
        
The French Determination to Run the I.M.F.
        
The Problem With Christine Lagarde
        
Which Is in Worse Shape, U.S. or Europe?
        
Economist Q. & A. on Europe's Debt Accord

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EURO (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%) Daily Economist; euro zone; European Central Bank; European debt crisis; Germany; Greece; Italy; Simon Johnson; sovereign debt; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); International Monetary Fund; Europe; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%) International Monetary Fund

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (93%); GREECE (90%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



964 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: Kings of the Hill, Top of the Forbes Heap

BYLINE: CLYDE HABERMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The Day: The Forbes magazine list of the 400 wealthiest men and women in the United States was especially comforting to a New Yorker, since no American city has more billionaires. Also, what City Room is reading in other papers and blogs. 

 BODY:
With our noses once again pressed firmly against the window, we took a peek on Wednesday at the latest Forbes magazine list of the 400 wealthiest men and women in the United States. For a New Yorker, the news was especially comforting, since no American city has more billionaires than ours.
With so much poverty going around, we needed some good news for a change. Forbes kindly provided it: The superrich in New York had become superricher.
Actually, the superrich became superricher throughout the country. By the magazine's calculations, the net worth of the Fab Four Hundred totaled $1.5 trillion, an increase of 12 percent from 2010. To give you an idea of how much money that is, if you decided for some bizarre reason to count 1.5 trillion seconds, it would take you roughly 48,000 years to finish. If you make it, let us know how the next Ice Age turns out.
New York's wealthiest did the rest of us proud. In the five boroughs, 53 people made the list. The next closest city was Dallas, with 17. 
The New Yorkers' combined net worth was $211 billion, which is enough money to cover the municipal budget for three years. The total was 15 percent higher than the last time we looked, two years ago. That percentage rise is a bit pokey compared with the 12 percent in a single year for the nation as a whole. But, hey, times are tough. All things considered, our guys - and all but two of them were guys - were hardly slouches.
The rest of New York State did not do badly, either. Altogether, the state had 64 people on the list, with a combined worth of $262 billion. They included the 53 in New York City, with most of the 11 others living on Long Island or in Westchester County.
Only California had more megawealthy types, 88. Not to sound like whiners, but let's bear in mind that California's population is far larger than ours. Let's look at this way instead: We in this state had a billionaire for every 300,000 people. California had one for every 425,000. There's no reason for us to hang our heads.
You're probably curious about names on the New York City list. There were no major surprises. 
No. 1 was David H. Koch, the industrialist, who along with his brother, Charles, spends plenty of his money to help keep the Tea Party movement well-caffeinated. David Koch's net worth was put at $25 billion.
Next was Michael R. Bloomberg. His $19.5 billion worth, as recorded by Forbes, was $1.5 billion more than a year ago. It wasn't clear if Mr. Bloomberg's $1-a-year salary as mayor was tossed into the total.
 The city's roster included a raft of familiar names like John A. Paulson ($15.5 billion), Carl C. Icahn ($13 billion) and Ronald O. Perelman ($12 billion). It went on to mention a bunch of poor devils who didn't have double-digit billions - among them a Lauder or two, a few Tisches, a couple of newspaper types named Murdoch and Zuckerman and some guy called Trump. 
As we said, those on the list for the most part improved their lot. It was a refreshing contrast to a report a week ago about how 46.2 million Americans are living below the poverty line, the highest figure in the five decades that the census bureau has been keeping track. A bureau report due out on Thursday shows that New York City has been particularly hard hit, with one in five residents living in poverty.
But, you know, billionaires don't have it easy, either. New York had 71 of them in 2008 before the bottom fell out of the economy. Now there are only 53.
People are always going around saying that they feel bad for the poor. Is there no one to shed a tear for those unfortunate souls whose holdings are now measured in mere 8 or 9 digits instead of the 10 or 11 digits to which they had become accustomed?
Here's what City Room is reading in other papers and blogs this morning.
Barbara Sheehan refused to hold the guns she allegedly used to shoot her husband, Raymond, in 2008 during a day of testimony that included her son describing Mr. Sheehan as an abusive, terrifying man. [New York Post, New York Times]
A 7-year-old boy from Brooklyn saved his mother's life by calmly calling emergency services after his mother had a seizure. [Daily News] (Also see The New York Post.)
A recorded confession by Joshua Komisarjevsky, the second defendant in a home invasion that took place in 2007 in Cheshire, Conn., was played for the jury in his trial, and drove the judge to send jurors home early because they were visibly disturbed. [New York Post, New York Times]
Two men were arrested in Columbia, S.C., on Wednesday in the murder of the 18-year-old basketball star Tayshana Murphy. [Wall Street Journal] (Also see The New York Times and DNA Info.)
Park51, an Islamic cultural center and mosque in Lower Manhattan, opened without a protester in sight. [Daily News] (Also see The New York Post.)
Nine correction officers were injured recapturing an inmate who dashed from a room in Rikers Island while he was being fingerprinted. [Daily News]
A Staten Island mafioso on trial in Federal court on Wednesday for associating with gangsters claimed that it was impossible for him to avoid the mob while living and working on Staten Island. The judge agreed, and issued a more lenient sentence. [Daily News]
A police officer accused of raping a teacher on her way to work in the Inwood area of Manhattan pleaded not guilty and said in court that he did not want to call his girlfriend after his arrest because he was afraid of being caught "cheating." [Wall Street Journal, DNA Info] (Also see The New York Post.)
A study by the Alliance for a Greater New York indicates that New York could become a "Wal-Mart city." [mcbrooklyn]
Transit workers charged that budget cuts have led to a surge in the rat population in the subway. [Daily News]
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority said it would finish tunneling for the first phase of the Second Avenue subway line on Thursday. [Wall Street Journal]
The mother of a man facing charges for running a drug-smuggling ring as a baggage handler at Kennedy International Airport reportedly flew to Africa to place a hex on the two Brooklyn federal prosecutors handling the case. [New York Post]
The Bay Ridge community board is scrutinizing the activities of new nightclubs in the neighborhood. [Brooklyn Paper]
Photos: a look inside St. Brigid's Roman Catholic Church on Avenue B and Eighth Street. [E.V. Grieve]

        
Bloomberg Opens Wallet Even More to Stay in Office
        
Thompson Challenges Mayor's Financial Disclosures
        
Thompson Pays Off Credit-Card Debt
        
The Rich Get ... Together (Shhh, It Was a Secret)
        
Mayor Has Spent $18.7 Million on Re-election Effort

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (94%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); MAYORS (72%); TRENDS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (50%) Carl C. Icahn; David H. Koch; forbes 400; John A. Paulson; Michael R. Bloomberg; Ronald O. Perelman; wealth; Bloomberg, Michael R; Icahn, Carl C; Koch, David H; Paulson, John A; Perelman, Ronald O; Economic Conditions and Trends; Forbes Magazine; New York City; Demographics; The Day

COMPANY: FORBES INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Forbes Magazine

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%); CARL ICAHN (85%); RONALD PERELMAN (81%) Bloomberg, Michael R; Icahn, Carl C; Koch, David H; Paulson, John A; Perelman, Ronald O

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



965 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 312 words

HEADLINE: Meh - And I Mean That

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The Fed pulls out its water pistol. 

 BODY:
OK, the Fed moved. It was a bit stronger than expected -- and BB and company stood up to the GOP.
But seriously, they're trying to use a water pistol to stop a charging rhino.
Conventional monetary policy operates by changing the supply of monetary base, which is a unique, uniquely liquid asset. Increase the supply of green pieces of paper with pictures of dead presidents, and you start a hot-potato process in which people try to get out of that asset into higher-yielding but less liquid assets, interest rates fall all along the curve, and big real things can happen.
Right now, however, people are holding monetary base at the margin simply for its role as a store of value, so conventional monetary policy doesn't do anything. The Fed is therefore trying to operate on a different margin, swapping short-term for long-term securities. The trouble here is that it's not at all clear that this has much traction. To a first approximation, long-term interest rates are determined by expected future short-term rates, and if that were the whole story, the Fed would be accomplishing nothing at all.
Now, to a second approximation, risk plays a role; and what the Fed is trying to do is play on the margin created by the difference between the first and second approximations. OK. But we're talking about very big markets here. Total nonfinancial debt in the US is around $36 trillion, and the Fed is talking about shifting $400 billion of that total from short-term to long-term assets. How much effect can that have?
The main way in which unconventional Fed policy can work is by changing expectations -- especially expected future inflation. And that's not happening. In fact, expectations of inflation over the next 5 years have been falling fast:
So kudos to the Fed for defying the right's threats, and I guess this is better than nothing. But is it remotely enough? No.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INTEREST RATES (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



966 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 131 words

HEADLINE: One Point Seven Seven

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Who could have imagined? Well, me. 

 BODY:
That's the current interest rate on 10-year US bonds.
Remember, back in 2009 there was a big debate between people like me, who said that we were in a liquidity trap and that interest rates would stay low as long as the economy was depressed, and people like the WSJ editorial page and Niall Ferguson, who said that government borrowing would bring on the bond vigilantes and send rates soaring.
How's it going?
And just to be clear: this isn't just about I-told-you-so. We're talking about different models, different visions of how the economy works. Their vision led to calls for austerity now now now; mine said that the overwhelming danger was that we wouldn't provide enough stimulus, and that we would pull back too soon. Sure enough, we didn't and we did. And now catastrophe looms.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



967 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: Boathouse Strike Ends in Settlement

BYLINE: STEVEN GREENHOUSE


HIGHLIGHT: The owner of the Boathouse Restaurant in Central Park had threatened to shut it down, but ended up negotiating a settlement with the union representing the restaurant's workers. 

 BODY:
The bitter, boisterous 44-daystrike at the Boathouse Restaurant in Central Park ended on Thursday as the two sides announced that they had agreed to a four-year union contract.
New York City's main union representing hotel and restaurant workers, the New York Hotel Trades Council, said the contract was a significant victory because the restaurant's owner had fiercely battled a unionization effort for months. 
The settlement was announced by the union; Dean Poll, the restaurant's owner; and the city's deputy mayor for economic development, Robert K. Steel, who played a major role in pushing the two sides to settle.
Mr. Poll had threatened to close the Boathouse and lay off its 170 employees if the union continued to insist on what he said were extravagant demands.
Mr. Steel said, "The Boathouse is a one-of-a-kind destination for New Yorkers and visitors, and throughout this process, we were committed to its continued success for years to come."
Peter Ward, the union's president, expressed delight that the strike was over, adding, "We are equally happy to say that our union and the Boathouse employees accomplished our goals."
Employees voted unanimously on Thursday afternoon to ratify the contract, which includes vacations, sick days and a clause to have arbitrators hear disputes about firings and other matters. It also has family health and dental coverage, and that coverage will apply to domestic partners.
Under the agreement, about one-third of the employees who do not receive tips, including dishwashers, will have their pay increased immediately to $13.50 an hour, from $7.50.
The contract also provides for overtime for cooks and gives scheduling priority to workers with more seniority.
Two officials involved in the negotiations said Mr. Poll had asked the Bloomberg administration to reduce the Boathouse's rent by more than $1 million a year because a union contract might make it unprofitable.
In a statement that the city, the union and the restaurant issued on Thursday, the city hinted that it might consider revamping the agreement with the Boathouse to ensure its "continued vitality for both the city and its operator in light of these changed circumstances."
Mr. Poll agreed to make significant concessions, like rehiring more than 20 workers, after the National Labor Relations Board told him that it was prepared to file a far-reaching legal complaint accusing the Boathouse of illegally threatening and questioning workers, as well as illegally firing and otherwise punishing more than 15 workers for supporting the union.
The labor board had also told Mr. Poll that it planned to seek a judicial order to require the Boathouse to grant union recognition and enter contract talks, even though no vote has been held to determine whether the restaurant's workers wanted to unionize. Mr. Ward said that 70 percent of the employees had signed cards last winter backing a union.
The dispute had become intertwined with the union's battle with Mr. Poll over a license he won to run Tavern on the Green, another restaurant in Central Park. Mr. Poll never reopened Tavern after failing to reach a contract with Mr. Ward's union, which represented the 400 Tavern workers under the previous licensee, Warner LeRoy.

        
Boathouse Restaurant Capitulates to Union
        
Boathouse Restaurant Workers Walk Off Job
        
Union Battle Rages at a Central Park Restaurant

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); STRIKES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (88%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (77%); HOTEL STAFF (77%); OVERTIME (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); DENTAL INSURANCE (64%) Boathouse restaurant; Steel, Robert K; Labor and Jobs; Organized Labor; Strikes; Central Park Boathouse; Central Park (NYC); Highlights; Labor

ORGANIZATION: HOTEL & RESTAURANT WORKERS (58%) Central Park Boathouse

PERSON: Steel, Robert K

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Central Park (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011



968 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: Plan for Trading Limits Goes International

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: International politicians and regulators urged the United Nations to add a new item to its already packed agenda: speculative commodities trading. 

 BODY:
International politicians and regulators urged the United Nations on Thursday to add a new item to its already packed agenda: speculative commodities trading. 
Leonel Fernandez, president of the Dominican Republic, will propose to the United Nations General Assembly this week a resolution that would limit large trading positions, among other regulatory measures. Mr. Fernandez, speaking at an United Nations panel on Thursday, blamed Wall Street speculation for major fluctuations in food and oil prices.
"This is a major problem for our economy and our citizens," he said.
 But past efforts to rein in speculative trading have stalled. 
Over the last few years, as Wall Street has ramped up its speculation in the futures market, the prices of the underlying commodities have gyrated wildly, ultimately hitting consumers at the gas pump and in the supermarket. 
The Dodd-Frank Act, the financial regulatory overhaul enacted last year, requires the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to limit the amount of futures contracts that a single trader or firm can hold on certain commodities. 
The so-called position limits plan has emerged as one of the most contentious matters at the agency, which received some 13,000 public comment letters on the issue. Indeed, Wall Street has moved to tame the plan, dispatching an army of lawyers and lobbyists to the agency. 
"There are people out there who are violently opposed," Bart Chilton, a Democratic member of the commodity commission, said at the United Nations panel on Thursday. 
He noted that some groups are threatening legal challenges to the rules. Dodd-Frank leaves it up to the agency to enforce potion limits "as appropriate." Some Wall Street firms have interpreted the fine print to mean that, in fact, no limits are appropriate. 
"People are trying to dance on the head of a legal pin," Mr. Chilton said. 
While the limits were supposed to kick in during January, the agency has not yet finalized the plan. It is planning to meet in early October to vote on an updated version of the rules. 
For now, the agency is considering a plan to enact trading limits on 28 commodities - oil, wheat, corn and the like. Existing position limits apply to only nine items.
The Dominican Republic will urge the United Nations to adopt a similar regulatory overhaul that includes position limits and requirements that Wall Street firms post more margin when trading. 
"If we were talking about commodities like botox, Red Bull and Twinkies - who cares?" said former Senator Byron Dorgan, a Democrat from North Dakota who pushed to include position limits in Dodd-Frank. "But we're talking about food and energy, things that everyone needs."

        
Is Dodd-Frank the Original 'Jobs Bill'?
        
Regulator Taken to Task on Trading Limits

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FUTURES (92%); COMMODITIES TRADING (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GRAIN MARKETS (78%); CORN MARKETS (78%); FOOD PRICES (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); LOBBYING (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (65%) Bart Chilton; C.F.T.C; Dodd-Frank; Dodd-Frank Act; Dominican Republic; Leonel Fernandez; Position Limits; Fernandez, Leonel; Commodities; Futures and Options Trading; United Nations; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (56%) United Nations

PERSON: BYRON DORGAN (58%) Fernandez, Leonel

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



969 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Whose Subsidies Trump Whose?

BYLINE: MATTHEW L. WALD


HIGHLIGHT: Comparisons are difficult, but a new report calculates that nuclear, oil and gas subsidies in those industries' early years exceed the subsidies that have gone to renewable energy. 

 BODY:
 Renewable energy deserves subsidies, its partisans say, because conventional energy sources have enjoyed bigger subsidies for decades. The latter is a hard proposition to quantify, buta new report by a venture capital firm that specializes in renewables takes a stab at it. 
 The analysis is by Nancy Pfund, a managing partner of DBL Investors of San Francisco, which backs renewable energy ventures, and Ben Healey, an environmentalist who is earning a joint master's degree in business administration and engineering management at Yale. It traces oil and gas subsidies beginning in 1918, biofuel subsidies since 1980 and renewable electricity subsidies since 1994. All of those are tracked through the end of 2009, meaning that the study does not capture all of the aid to renewable energy in the stimulus bill. It tracks nuclear energy from 1947 to 1999. 
 With differing periods and different eras, comparisons are difficult. But the report calculates that nuclear subsidies came to more than 1 percent of the federal budget in their first 15 years, and that oil and gas subsidies made up one-half of 1 percent of the total budget in their first 15 years. "Renewables have constituted only about a tenth of a percent,'' the report says.

It does not give a total number for coal, but notes that when Congress raised taxes to pay for the Korean War, it decided that the royalty payments received by people who owned land from which coal was mined should be taxed at the capital gains rate rather than the income tax rate, which is higher. The goal was to avoid depressing coal production. That provision remains on the books, the authors said.

 Coal in fact enjoys a long history of government help; the report notes that in the colonial era, it was transported here from Britain as ballast, but that in 1789, the new United States put a tariff on such imports. Eager to encourage coal mining, states gave tax breaks as well. 
 Assigning subsidies is tricky, as the report notes. The government helped develop jet engines largely for military reasons but that technology was harnessed for the design of gas turbines that run on natural gas. How much of that should be counted as an energy subsidy? And NASA put a lot of money into solar cells for reasons that had nothing to do with the terrestrial solar industry. 
 The report ignores another category of subsidy: mandates that set minimum quotas for the use of renewable energy, which is more expensive than conventional energy and thus raises the average price paid by consumers. With natural gas prices currently low, energy from the wind and sun is generally more expensive. And drivers who fill their tanks with a mixture that is 10 percent ethanol and 90 percent gasoline are often paying extra for the blend. In essence, this is a subsidy by consumers, not by taxpayers, although the two obviously overlap.
Ms. Pfund said that she simply did not have the figures to make those calculations, and that on the electricity side, those theoretical subsidies would differ from state to state. 
The authors clearly have a point of view. The paper's title asks, "What Would Jefferson Do?" And the answer, they say, is "he would do what our country has always done -- support emerging technologies -- to drive innovation, create jobs, protect our environment, enhance our national security in a time of rapid change and to further a distinctly American way of life in which resources once thought to be endless are replaced by ones that actually are."
But as the report demonstrates, the country also makes a habit of supporting technologies that emerged long ago. 
Should we break the habit?

        
A Crystal Ball for Electricity
        
For Energy-Starved India, Japan's Crisis Raises Hard Questions
        
Applying the Brakes to a Nuclear Revival
        
Imagining a Renewable Utah
        
Cheap or Clean? The Energy Dilemma

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RENEWABLE ENERGY (92%); BIOFUELS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); COAL MINING (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); WIND POWER PLANTS (89%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (89%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (88%); TAX LAW (87%); COAL INDUSTRY (87%); INCOME TAX (86%); WIND ENERGY (79%); BIOMASS (79%); POLITICS (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (79%); ETHANOL (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); ENGINEERING (75%); GASOLINE (75%); OIL & GAS ROYALTIES (75%); ROYALTIES (75%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (74%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (74%); TAX RELIEF (74%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (74%); COAL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (72%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); MINING OUTPUT (72%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (72%); TAX INCREASES (70%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (70%); ALCOHOLS (69%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (65%); KOREAN WAR (65%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (65%); WRITERS (63%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS (60%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%) Coal; DBL Investors; electricity; Natural Gas; nuclear power; renewable energy; subsidies; Alternative and Renewable Energy; Ethanol; Income Tax; Mines and Mining; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Politics and Government; Wind Power; National Aeronautics and Space Administration; Energy Business; Energy Economics; Energy Politics; Politics and Policy

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (84%) National Aeronautics and Space Administration

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011



970 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: Commuter Nation

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: The average time it takes Americans to commute to work is 25.1 minutes, according to a new report based on Census data from 2009. The commute is longest in the New York metropolitan area. 

 BODY:
The average time it takes Americans to commute to work is 25.1 minutes, according to a new report based on Census data from 2009. Of all metropolitan areas, New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island area has the longest average commute time in the country, at 34.6 minutes, and has the highest share of its workers using public transportation to get to work.
Here's a look at the distribution of commute lengths across the country:
Interestingly, while the average commute is 25.1 minutes, there are actually relatively few Americans who have a commute of exactly that length. There are just a lot of Americans with commutes shorter than that, and a bunch with commutes much longer than that. A plurality of workers have a commute in the 15-to-19-minute range.
The report also found that the median American leaves for work between 7:30 a.m. and 7:59 a.m.
Here's a chart showing what percent of workers leave home at a given time:
Over time, American commutes have gotten somewhat less environmentally friendly, as you can see in the chart below. Over three-quarters of the nation's workers drove alone to work in 2009, with another 10 percent commuting by carpool:
Across the country, only 3.5 percent of American workers had zero carbon footprint because they walked or bicycled to work. The metro area with the highest share of its workers commuting by bicycle is Corvallis, Ore., at 9.3 percent. The area with the highest share commuting by walking is Ithaca, N.Y., at 15.1 percent.

        
What We're Reading: Nanny Tax Evasion
        
What We're Reading...
        
Fewer Jobs, Fewer Commuters
        
Homeownership Rate Falls Back to Pre-Boom Level
        
Driving Alone: D.C. Is Greenest

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CENSUS (95%); CITIES (90%); STATISTICS (78%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (73%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); PRIVATE HOUSEHOLD EMPLOYMENT (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (66%); TAX FRAUD (50%) Commuting; U.S. Census Bureau; Census Bureau

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (93%) Census Bureau

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011



971 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: Italy's Troubling Earthquake Prosecutions

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Earth scientists serve as scapegoats as Italy seeks justice after a 2009 earthquake. 

 BODY:
11:09 p.m. | Updated below |
You may be aware of the effort under way in Italy to convict six scientists and a public official for manslaughter for statements they made about the improbability of a big earthquake as low-level tremors unnerved citizens in the Abruzzo region of central Italy in late March 2009. On April 6, the medieval town of L'Aquila was devastated by a 6.3-magnitude earthquake.
One can only hope that a decision earlier this week to adjourn the trial until October 1 will give the prosecution time to reconsider the merits of what amounts to a medieval-style attack on science.
The criminal case (and lawsuit seeking $66 million) centers on an assessment of quake risk made by Italy's Commission of Grand Risks. A recent BBC report provides a good review of the details, and -- to my mind -- a convincing picture of bitter citizens and ineffectual local officials looking in the wrong place for wrongdoing.
In the BBC report, the complaint was summarized by a local investigator, Inspector Lorenzo Cavallo, this way: 
The Commission calmed the local population down following a number of earth tremors. After the quake, we heard people's accounts and they told us they changed their behaviour following the advice of the commission.
Here's how the BBC described the defense offered by Pasquale de Santis, the chief spokesman for the National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology (INGV below), which employs two of the scientists charged in the case:
The institute's head of public affairs, Pasquale de Santis, told Newsnight that the trial is a distraction, that seismologists have been saying since 1998 that this is a high risk area, and that people should instead be focussing on those who failed properly to enforce building codes in L'Aquila.
The bottom line, of course, as a 2011 report on earthquake resilience from the National Academies noted, is that it remains impossible to glean meaningful hints of big earthquakes from low-level seismic activity. There's research under way to test new ways of forecasting, as ABC News reported recently.
There are many subtle undercurrents in the case that can't be adequately summarized here but are beautifully laid out by Stephen S. Hall of Nature in a long feature that is essential reading if you care about the tough intersection of uncertain science and risk management in disaster hot spots.
Another valuable article, in The Economist, notes how some of the reassuring statements made by the risk commission in the days preceding the earthquake came in the face of panicked public reactions to unofficial earthquake predictions from Giampaolo Giuliani, a technician at a national physics institute measuring radon levels.
In the article, Thomas Jordan, an American seismologist who led an international review of earthquake forecasting in Italy after the disaster, said the debate with Giuliani (whose technique is considered unreliable, at best) got the commission "trapped into a conversation with a yes/no answer." [There's a long and useful essay on the case by Jordan in New Scientist.]
More than 5,000 scientists, engineers, graduate students and academicians have signed an open letter to Italy's president decrying the trial. Here's an excerpt:
Years of research worldwide have shown that there is currently no scientifically accepted method for short-term earthquake prediction that can reliably be used by Civil Protection authorities for rapid and effective emergency actions.
The international seismological community has long recognized that the best approach to defending populations from catastrophic earthquakes is not through earthquake prediction, but through risk mitigation and the application of appropriate safety measures to prevent buildings from collapsing.
I sought some input on the case from a variety of earth scientists who have been pursuing ways to predict earthquakes. Tom Parsons of the United States Geological Survey sent this reply:
I happened to be in Rome working at the INGV when the L'Aquila earthquake happened. Clusters of earthquakes happen in the Apennines all the time without leading to anything bigger, and the 3-day mainshock probabilities following the March 30th cluster were less than 1 percent, representing an increase, but still very low. Do you evacuate a city based on that? The best approach is of course to have earthquake resistant buildings that aren't so vulnerable.
In the days following the earthquake, all fingers were pointed at lax building codes and the possibility of local corruption.
How many inspectors or builders or officials who approved inadequate building codes were prosecuted? (Please post links if you find them!)
The worst of it is that the L'Aquila tragedy is modest compared to what will inevitably happen elsewhere in Italy, given the vulnerability of structures there (and of course in a host of places from Oregon to Istanbul to Katmandu).
This is how Costas Synolakis, a professor of civil and environmental engineering at the University of Southern California, described the situation in Italy and elsewhere in Europe in "Why Young Buildings Failed in Old Towns," a Dot Earth post published shortly after the L'Aquila disaster:
The fact that seismic retrofit codes for retrofitting structures still languish in European professional societies is unacceptable.
Europe needs to finally take note. Building codes need to be enforced and older structures need to be retrofitted to withstand not only routine earthquakes such as the one in L'Aquila, but larger ones along the Calabrian arc, such as the 1908 Messina earthquake with estimated magnitude of 7.5
In considering the merits of this manslaughter trial, also consider reading a post from The Lede blog following the quake in which an Italian official, warning of poor enforcement of building standards, said this:
In California, an earthquake like this one would not have killed a single person.
The official? Franco Barberi, who led the country's risks commission in 2009 and is now one of the criminal defendants.
How do you spell scapegoat?

        
'Disaster Memory' and the Flooding of Fukushima
        
In Earthquakes, Poverty, Population and Motion Matter
        
Why Young Buildings Failed in Old Towns
        
A Safer, and Brighter, School Design
        
Culture, Risk and the Atom

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MANSLAUGHTER (78%); PHYSICS (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); LITIGATION (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (74%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (73%); POPULATION DECLINE (72%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (50%) corruption; crime; Design; disasters; Earthquakes; engineering; Italy; risk; de Santis, Pasquale; Hall, Stephen S; Corruption in Government; Disasters and Emergencies; Murders and Attempted Murders; Politics and Government; Economist, The; National Academies of the United States; United States Geological Survey; Abruzzo (Italy); L'Aquila (Italy); Geology

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (84%) Economist, The; National Academies of the United States; United States Geological Survey

PERSON: de Santis, Pasquale; Hall, Stephen S

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY (97%); UNITED STATES (94%) Abruzzo (Italy); Italy; L'Aquila (Italy)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011



972 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 200 words

HEADLINE: On Our Radar: Solar Venture Misses Loan Deadline

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: First Solar says it is in advanced talks to build and sell its Topaz plant project and will try to secure financing that does not rely on the Energy Department. 

 BODY:
The manufacturer First Solar says it will not be able to meet a Sept. 30 deadline to receive a federal loan guarantee for a solar power plant it is building in California. [Reuters]
HarperCollins, the publisher of Times Comprehensive Atlas of the World, apologizes for an error in the latest edition suggesting that 15 percent of Greenland's permanent ice cover was erased between 1999 and 2011. [CBC News]
The head of France's largest natural gas company says that the drilling method known as horizontal hydraulic fracturing, which is transforming the American gas industry, should be improved to protect the environment. France became the first country to outlaw the method last month. [Bloomberg News]
The Department of Energy's annual Solar Decathlon opens on Friday in Washington, with 19 entrants competing to design the most energy-efficient, high-performing, affordable solar dwelling. The competition includes an entry embraced by Habitat for Humanity. [The New York Times]

        
On Our Radar: Nuclear Protest in Tokyo
        
Renewable Energy Industries Ask Obama to Speed Loan Guarantees
        
On Our Radar: Typhoon Buffets Tokyo
        
Parsing Myth and Reality on Solyndra
        
Administration Rushed Solar Guarantee, Republicans Say

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (91%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (75%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (75%); CLIMATE CHANGE (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); TRACK & FIELD (73%) Department of Energy; enerfy efficiency; First Solar; fracking; France; Greenland; HarperCollins; ice cover; loan guarantees; Solar decathlon; Times Atlas of the World; Washington; Alternative Energy; Business; climate change; Energy Business; Energy Economics; Energy Politics; Environmental Politics; renewable energy

COMPANY: SOLYNDRA INC (90%); BLOOMBERG LP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HABITAT FOR HUMANITY INTERNATIONAL (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (65%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (90%); JAPAN (65%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011



973 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 120 words

HEADLINE: TimesCast: Slipping Into Poverty

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: The Times's Corey Kilgannon reports for TimesCast from the South Bronx about the latest Census Bureau figures showing that one in five in the city now live in poverty. 

 BODY:
The newest figures from the Census Bureau show that poverty grew nationwide last year. New York City was hit especially hard, reported Sam Roberts today's Times. 
From 2009 to 2010, 75,000 more city residents found themselves pushed into poverty, increasing the poor population to more than 1.6 million or 20.1 percent of the city's population. 
In this report for TimesCast, a Times reporter, Corey Kilgannon, spoke to people in the South Bronx, the poorest urban county in the country, about their financial situation.

        
More New Yorkers Living in Poverty
        
Recession Takes Toll on City, Census Survey Shows
        
A Recession's Effect on Poverty
        
Less Poverty but More Inequality in New York
        
Census: New York Region Has Widest Income Gap

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (96%); CENSUS (96%); CITY LIFE (91%); CITIES (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (88%); POPULATION SIZE (88%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (88%); TRENDS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); POLLS & SURVEYS (84%) Census; New York City; Poverty; Economic Conditions and Trends; Census Bureau

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (94%) Census Bureau

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011



974 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: Vendor Is Ousted as City Plans to Renovate Tavern Site

BYLINE: GLENN COLLINS


HIGHLIGHT: City says it is "keeping options open for use in the future.'' 

 BODY:
An owner of one of the three temporary food trucks at the former site of Tavern on the Green in Central Park said city officials have told him that they may not renew his contract for next year because major work on the site was possible. 
While an official said the city was renovating and stabilizing the visitors center that replaced Tavern last year, the building already underwent a $2.5 million refurbishment before opening last fall. Any extensive work on the site could mean the city was considering inviting bids again for a new restaurant there next year. 
"We've been told that a capital renewal project is in the works slated for spring or summer next year," said Burak Karacam, managing owner of the Pera Turkish Taco truck. "We haven't received any word officially, but in a series of e-mail exchanges we've been told the city is in the early stages of considering construction." 
The Pera truck has inhabited the terrace at the Central Park Visitor Center at Tavern on the Green since last fall. The terrace, near West 67th Street, is located where the Crystal Room of Warner LeRoy's restaurant once stood. 
A spokeswoman for the New York City Parks Department had no comment. 
Andrew Brent, a spokesman for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, said that the one-year leases of the three vendors at the site - the Pera truck, the Rickshaw Dumpling Truck and the Van Leeuwen Artisan Ice Cream Truck - were up in October, "and the vendors were told that we may issue temporary permits in the spring." He added, "If we do, the current vendors would get first right of refusal." 
Mr. Brent said that engineers from the city's Department of Design and Construction "are doing basic stabilization and renovation work" at the landmarked visitor center, addressing "the basic elements of the building." He added, "They are keeping options open for use in the future. At the moment we don't have firm plans for future uses of the site." Visits by design department officials had been reportedby Crain's New York Business.
However, city officials have said previously that they have not given up on the idea of re-establishing a restaurant on the site and that the timing for an invitation for bids - called a request for proposal - would depend on the state of the economy and the likelihood of attracting bidders. 
8:25 p.m. | Updated 
On Thursday, Dean N. Poll, the proprietor of the Central Park Boathouse, and the New York Hotel Trades Council announced a tentative four-year union contract after a bitter 44-day strike at the restaurant. Mr. Poll's effort to take over the old Tavern on the Green failed after six months of turbulent negotiations with the same union.
At the time Mr. Poll's lawyer, Barry B. LePatner, said that Mr. Poll would be unlikely to make another run at the restaurant. But on Thursday, after the contract settlement, Frank Marino, a spokesman for Mr. Poll, said that "Dean continues to have a strong interest in Tavern on the Green and this agreement with the Hotel Trades Council certainly lays out a blueprint for a future deal at Tavern should the opportunity present itself."
As for the Pera truck, "We'd like to be able to come back," Mr. Karacam said, "since we've only really been making revenues at the park since last June. It is an extremely seasonal location, and we could use a longer chance to recoup our investment."
 He said he had invested $100,000 in the truck, its staff and the park permit, and another several thousand dollars in a liquor license, "which we only received in June." 

        
What's Always Been Missing in Food Trucks: Alcohol
        
Weekend Fare
        
Weekend Fare
        
Mayor in No Rush to Respond to Trump's Tavern on the Green Plan
        
Trump Says He and Union Have a Deal on Tavern on the Green

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUILDING RENOVATION (91%); CITIES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); STRIKES (77%); ICE CREAM (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); LABOR UNIONS (60%) Pera Turkish Taco Truck; Tavern on the Green; Food Trucks; Central Park (NYC); Restaurants

ORGANIZATION: Tavern on the Green

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Central Park (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2011



975 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Warner's (Real) Big Tent on Deficit Reduction

BYLINE: JACKIE CALMES


HIGHLIGHT: Senator Mark Warner gathered 60 people at his Virginia mansion for a buffet dinner and discussion about the nation's debt. 

 BODY:
Senator Mark R. Warner, a first-term Democrat from Virginia, just will not give up on the idea of a grand deficit-reduction bargain between the two parties. He is even providing the table.
On Wednesday night under a tent at his mansion in northern Virginia, Mr. Warner brought together for a buffet dinner about 60 people, including roughly equal numbers of Democrats and Republicans from the Senate and House, corporate executives and economic and financial leaders including Alan Greenspan, the former Federal Reserve chairman, and David Stockman, the first budget director to President Ronald Reagan. 
The three-hour dinner was supposed to be off the record, but several participants described it afterward, so encouraged were they that it could signal some hope for bridging the seemingly intractable differences between Republicans and Democrats to address the nation's looming debt woes.
"It is the only thing that I've seen in the last month that gives me any sense of optimism," said Senator Chris Coons, a freshman Democrat of Delaware.
Indeed, the dinner took place at a time when Mr. Obama has all but given up on reaching a deal with Congressional Republican leaders, who refuse to consider raising tax revenues and insist instead on shrinking Medicare and Medicaid far more than Democrats will entertain.
But Mr. Warner declined to discuss the event, perhaps reflecting his sense that he has talked optimistically of the prospect of bipartisan accord before, only to be disappointed.
The bipartisan "Gang of Six" he helped to organize in the Senate with Saxby Chambliss, Republican of Georgia, failed after months of talks to produce a compromise blueprint of spending cuts and revenue increases this year in time to influence negotiations between the White House and Republicans in Congress. And Mr. Warner was not named to the special Congressional committee now charged with finding a bipartisan and long-term plan to reduce projected deficits.
But by his dinner, he clearly hopes to influence the committee's course. Several attendees described the get-together as a pep rally to pressure the 12-member House-Senate panel to "go big" -- that is, to go beyond its mandate to identify at least $1.2 trillion in deficit reductions over the decade. 
Mr. Stockman made an impassioned plea for new revenues, said two people who attended, and called it outrageous that hedge-fund and private equity managers pay a 15 percent income tax rate - lower than most middle-class taxpayers - on investment income.
According to attendees, Mr. Stockman and others among the business executives said all income -- wages and investment gains -- should be taxed at the same rates. To achieve that, they called for overhauling the tax code to end many tax breaks; the revenues could be used both to lower rates for all and to reduce deficits.
Republicans' public position is that all revenues must go toward lowering rates, not reducing the deficit. However, none of the Republican lawmakers at the dinner raised objections when the business executives said revenues must be raised to reduce projected deficits, said one non-partisan attendee.
Among the participants were the chief executives of PepsiCo, Aetna and BlackRock; two members of the joint deficit committee, Senator Rob Portman, Republican of Ohio, and Representative Chris Van Hollen, Democrat of Maryland, and five of the six members of the Gang of Six, including Senator Tom Coburn of Oklahoma, the conservative Republican whose wavering delayed the group's agreement on a $4 trillion deficit-reduction package of spending cuts and revenue increases.
Along with Mr. Chambliss was Georgia's other Republican senator, Johnny Isakson. Also there were Representative Steny Hoyer of Maryland, the No. 2 Democrat in the House; Senators Dianne Feinstein of California and Michael Bennet of Colorado, both Democrats; Frank Keating, the former Republican governor of Oklahoma who now heads the American Bankers Association; the former labor leader Andy Stern; Douglas Elmendorf, the director of the Congressional Budget Office; John Rother, a former longtime legislative director at the A.A.R.P., and Erskine Bowles, the former chief of staff to President Bill Clinton who co-chaired Mr. Obama's debt-reduction commission last year.
Mr. Warner hosted the dinner with Maya MacGuineas, director of the fiscal policy program at the New America Foundation, a research organization, who was an adviser to the Gang of Six. The participants agreed to keep working to press the parties to reach a compromise and to enlist others to do so. But, said one, "it's way too early to tell" whether anything will come of it.

        
Caucus Video: Dysfunction in Washington Continues, Health Care Records vs. Campaign Rhetoric
        
Caucus Video: The Politics of the Debt Deal
        
How 'Gang of Six' Revived Idea of Grand Debt Deal
        
The Caucus Click: Freshmen Rally at the White House
        
Frugality Is a Virtue, but Politics Rule the Debt-Limit Fight

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (87%); TAX RELIEF (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INCOME TAX (71%); MEDICARE (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); TAX REFORM (68%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (63%); PRIVATE EQUITY (60%); MEDICAID (51%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) mark warner; national debt; Warner, Mark R; National Debt (US); House of Representatives; National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform; Senate; Virginia; Congress

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives; National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform; Senate

PERSON: MARK WARNER (94%); SAXBY CHAMBLISS (59%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); CHRIS COONS (59%); RONALD REAGAN (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (55%) Warner, Mark R

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Virginia

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011



976 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Starting the 'Netflix of Flowers'

BYLINE: JESSICA BRUDER


HIGHLIGHT: H.Bloom sells flowers by subscription -- and is also hoping to train future entrepreneurs. 

 BODY:
Last year, two software geeks who'd never been anywhere near the flower business -- in fact, one of them is, quite literally, allergic to it -- started H.Bloom, an online, subscription-based floral delivery service that operates in New York, Chicago and Washington.
Employees: 38 full time.
Location: New York.
Founders: Bryan Burkhart, 36, and Sonu Panda, 35, met in 1997 at the University of Pennsylvania and spent the next decade in the software industry. In 2009, they decided to cast off software in favor of flowers? 
What sounds like a romantic venture was actually a shrewd calculation. Neither of the guys had a green thumb (Mr. Panda is allergic to pollen), but both could spot a disruptive opportunity. They were surprised to learn how much of the $35 billion floral industry still relied on the old, brick-and-mortar economy, untouched by technology. Though companies like 1-800-Flowers.com and FTD had brought much of the floral gift-delivery marketto the Web, a huge part of the industry -- self-bought flowers for home and office display -- still belongs mostly to bodegas, boutiques and high-end supermarkets.
Pitch: This is a subscription service. "We're the Netflix of flowers," said Mr. Burkhart, the company's chief executive (he said this before Netflix's recent struggles). "We enable customers to sign up for luxurious flowers with convenient delivery at really affordable prices."
A basic subscription costs $29 per bouquet, including weekly, every two weeks or monthly delivery. Clients can suspend service when they're out of town.
Running an exclusively online shop helps H.Bloom keep overhead low, Mr. Burkhart said. And in an industry where spoilage is a huge problem, the subscription model offers a distinct advantage, letting him know in advance how much inventory he should buy. Unlike traditional brick-and-mortar florists, which lose 30 to 50 percent of their products to spoilage, he said, H.Bloom has a spoilage rate of 2 percent.
Mr. Burkhart said he believed he could pass the savings along to customers and still profit: "We're closing a quality-to-price gap."
Traction: H. Bloom boasts 200 corporate customers and 600 consumer subscribers. The company entered its third market, Chicago, this month.
Revenue: The company started selling flowers in New York in April 2010 and brought in $342,000 in revenue for that year. Mr. Burkhart projects that sales for 2011 will top $2 million.
Financing: The company has raised $8 million across three rounds of financing. Earlier this month, H.Bloom announced the latest: a $4.7 million venture capital round led by Battery Ventures. Also participating were Brian Lee, the founder of LegalZoom and ShoeDazzle, and Anton Levy, a General Atlantic partner and Gilt Groupe board member.
Marketing: The company targets two separate audiences: companies and consumers. For its corporate line, H.Bloom hires full-time salespeople with quotas in each local market. They pound the pavement visiting businesses that include restaurants, hotels and property management offices. On the consumer side, H. Bloom relied until recently on word of mouth but just hired a head of marketing and is preparing to introduce an opening salvo of direct-mail and online advertising.
Competition: Most existing online floral subscription services - including "bouquet of the month"-style offers from companies such as Teleflora and FTD and 1-800-Flowers - target gift-givers and are packaged and priced accordingly. H.Bloom targets a different demographic, however, and it's one left mostly untapped by Internet-based services. Eighty-four percent of H.Bloom's subscribers receive flowers at least every other week, suggesting their subscriptions are not one-time gifts: they're bought by the end users.
H.Bloom's primary competitors for making nongift flower sales are all the places people buy themselves flowers already, a fragmented market including those bodegas, boutiques and high-end grocery stores. "I think we fit really nicely in between," Mr. Burkhart said, "because we provide the luxury arrangements and convenience of delivery that a high-end boutique would offer but, because of the subscription model and being able to buy directly from the farms, we're able to offer prices much more closely resembling a grocery store."
Rapid growth would also help him deliver the kind of bargain that will ward off would-be competitors. "Getting to a certain volume allows price breaks that you just can't get as a sole proprietorship," he said.
Challenge: Staffing the planned expansion. H.Bloom wants to grow like a weed, entering 25 cities in the next five years, then tackling both smaller American markets and international markets. To that end, the company has established what it calls the SEED program to find and foster new leadership. (SEED stands for Startup Education and Entrepreneurial Development.) The first graduate was just dispatched to Chicago after completing a six-month training program in New York, where he learned skills such as how to read a profit-and-loss statement, how to hire and how to handle customer service.
"If we can do this well, first, it will allow us to succeed as a business and expand across the country, but also I think it will train a whole host of future entrepreneurs," Mr. Burkhart said. Eventually, he said, he hopes that he will end up investing in some of start-ups.
What do you think? Is there a need for a "Netflix of flowers," and does the SEED program sound like good training for future entrepreneurs?

        
Step by Step With an Automated Start-Up
        
A Start-Up That Automates the Process of Starting Up
        
Can ATDynamics Get Trucking Fleets to Go Green?
        
Oh Baby Answers Its Chicken-and-Egg Question
        
Yowie: Will This Start-Up Survive?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FLORISTS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); FINANCING ROUNDS (89%); RETAILERS (88%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); ALLERGIES (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (77%); EQUITY FINANCING (75%); VENTURE CAPITAL (75%); HAY FEVER (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (68%); EXECUTIVES (65%) 1-800-Flowers.com; Anton Levy; Battery Ventures; Brian Lee; Bryan Burkhart; FTD; Gilt Groupe; H Bloom; LegalZoom; ShoeDazzle; Sonu Panda; start-up; Burkhart, Bryan; Lee, Brian; Computers and the Internet; Delivery Services; Entrepreneurship; Small Business; Start

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (85%); 1-800-FLOWERS.COM INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); GREEN THUMB (56%) H Bloom

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (85%); FWC (FRA) (69%); FLWS (NASDAQ) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (85%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (85%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (69%); NAICS453110 FLORISTS (69%); SIC5992 FLORISTS (69%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (69%)

PERSON: Burkhart, Bryan; Lee, Brian

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



977 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Well)

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: How One Small Group Sets Doctors' Pay

BYLINE: PAULINE W. CHEN, M.D.


HIGHLIGHT: Why are there so many medical specialists in a time when we need more primary care doctors? Meet the RUC, a committee of 29 men and women who play a critical role in dividing the Medicare pie. 

 BODY:
Despite decades of warnings of a primary care crisis and the fact that some 60 million patients are without primary care doctors, the medical profession has continued to produce legions of specialists.
When asked, most of my colleagues will point to the system that determines how medical charges are reimbursed by insurance, and how doctors in different areas of medicine are paid.
Put simply, our payment system pays more for procedures performed by specialists. Specialists, therefore, have greater earning power, so more doctors choose to train to be specialists. Careers in specialties like radiology, dermatology and neurosurgery offer lifetime earnings several million dollars higher than those in primary care. It is no surprise that medical students emerging from the educational mole hole saddled with hundreds of thousands of dollars of debt choose more lucrative fields.
But simply blaming the reimbursement system and accepting the perverse payments as immutable is inadequate. It's like believing that the current situation can only be repaired by the magical intervention of some Wizard of Oz. 
Well, maybe it's about time then that all of us, doctors patients, take a hard look at the man -- actually, the 29 men and women - behind the reimbursement curtain. I'm talking about the Specialty Society Relative Value Scale Update Committee, commonly called the RUC.
RUC (rhymes with "truck") advises the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or C.M.S., the government agency that is responsible for administering the most important health care payer in the United States. Medicare reimburses doctors according to a set schedule of fees for more than 10,000 physician services, ranging from removing a gallbladder to performing a colonoscopy to evaluating a new patient in the office. This fee schedule is crucial. It determines how taxpayers' Medicare dollars are spent, and it sets the relative worth of one physician service versus another. Moreover, because many private insurers and Medicaid programs model their own payments on Medicare's, its fee schedule ends up largely determining physician incomes.
The fees are roughly based on a formula developed in the mid-1980s to quantify the value of doctors' work. When C.M.S. adopted the formula, it added a few adjustments and agreed to rely on a consensus process for updating the schedule of fees. Specifically, C.M.S. said it would turn to an expert committee organized by the American Medical Association for advice.
That expert committee is the RUC.
Critics have charged that the process has been riddled with conflicts of interest and stacked against primary care. It's not hard to see their point. First, C.M.S. historically has approved 90 percent or more of the recommendations from the RUC. Second, while the RUC makes its recommendations based on an anonymous two-thirds majority vote, about 80 percent of those voting to begin with -- accounting for 23 of the 29 seats -- are physicians representing professional societies. Third, almost all of those physicians are specialists (currently only five RUC members are doctors from primary care fields).
Tom Scully, a former C.M.S. administrator, once described RUC meetings in this way: "Essentially, we sit down with [RUC] every year and say, 'Here's $43 billion and growing, how do you want to [divide it]? What's the relative value of weights between anesthesiologists, gastroenterologists, surgeons?' And set the relative values at what the physician community thinks the relative payment should be."
It's obvious why doctors might care about the RUC's decisions. But why should patients?
One answer is that the dollars at the heart of these discussions -- what is now the over $60 billion allotted for Medicare physician payment -- come from the pockets of taxpaying patients. But it is a group of individuals representing those who stand to benefit the most, not the taxpayers themselves, that holds extraordinary sway in determining how those dollars are spent.
Another answer is that by allowing the continued devaluation of primary care services relative to work performed by specialists, the RUC perpetuates a health care system that not only fails to respond to patient demand but also, bizarrely, actually offers disincentives to attend to patient needs. "Surely there is something absurd," writes the Princeton University economist Uwe Reinhardt, "when a nation pays a primary care physician poorly relative to other specialists and then wrings its hands over a shortage of primary care physicians."
For the last few months, the American Academy of Family Physicians has been waging a battle to increase the number of primary care physician seats on the RUC. The academy has also suggested that to increase transparency and accountability, RUC members should no longer be allowed to cast anonymous votes. And it has proposed that the RUC diversify its membership and for the first time add seats for private insurers, employer health plan purchasers and patients.
Let's hope someone is listening.

        
Reinventing the Third-Year Medical Student
        
When Less Treatment Is More
        
Learning From Other Patients
        
Getting Doctors to Think About Costs
        
What Doctors and Patients Don't Want to Talk About

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (95%); MEDICARE (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); ENDOSCOPY (78%); INSURANCE (77%); DERMATOLOGY (73%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (73%); NEUROSCIENCE (73%); APPROVALS (64%); MEDICAID (58%) Pauline Chen; Doctors; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicare; Medicine and Health; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Doctor and Patient

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2012



978 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Setbacks

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times, plus a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
In Today's Times:
After two and a half years of stagnation on peace negotiations in the Middle East, the United States is facing the prospect of having to share or cede its role as an architect of the talks, Helene Cooper and Steven Lee Meyers report. On Wednesday, President Obama's last-ditch effort to head off Palestinian efforts to join the United Nations faltered, forcing American diplomats to grapple with how to deal with the question of Palestinian statehood on the global agenda.The Federal Reserve announced an unconventional plan on Wednesday to reduce borrowing costs for businesses and consumers, trying once more to spur economic growth despite Republican demands that it refrain from any expansion of its stimulus program, Binyamin Appelbaum writes. The Fed's policy-making committee said in a statement that it was acting because it saw little prospect that the economy would expand fast enough and soon enough to help the 25 million Americans unable to find full-time work.The House rejected a stop-gap spending measure that would have funded the federal government past Sept. 30, delivering a surprise defeat to Republican leaders, Robert Pear and Jennifer Steinhauer report. Lawmakers on Capitol Hill need to pass a spending bill before Oct. 1, the start of the new fiscal year, or risk a shutdown, but conservative Republicans are seeking more cuts while Democrats want more funding for disaster aid.The 12 members of the special Congressional committee that is supposed to come up with more than a trillion dollars in spending cuts before Thanksgiving are the targets of intense efforts by lobbyists and executives seeking to minimize the cuts to their industries, Eric Lichtblau writes. The panel's broad mandate, the automatic cuts that will kick in if it fails, and its fast-approaching deadline have set off the lobbying blitz.A federal judge in Washington has upheld a section of the Voting Rights Act that requires certain parts of the country to have their elections and voting procedures closely monitored by the Justice Department despite protests from officials in Shelby County, Ala., who argued the law was unconstitutional, Campbell Robertson reports. Congress reauthorized the law in 2006 for 25 years, and rightly so, the judge said, given the history and current existence of racial discrimination in voting.On the campaign trail, a central theme of Gov. Rick Perry's message has been his job creation record in Texas. But now, Richard A. Oppel reports, he'll have to explain Texas's rising unemployment rate and new census figures which are expected to show the state's poverty rate higher than the national average.Meanwhile, his chief rival, former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, is playing up his lifestyle as a common man. Ashley Parker writes that Mr. Romney has been trying to distance himself from characterizations that he is out of touch by frequently sharing "regular-guy moments," such as eating fast food and flying on the budget carrier Southwest Airlines.
Happening in Washington:
The special deficit panel meets at 10 a.m.At 8:30 a.m., the Labor Department releases weekly jobless claims, following at 10 with mass layoff for August.Also at 10, the Conference Board puts out leading economic indicators and the Federal Housing Finance Agency releases home price indices, both for August. Freddie Mac releases weekly mortgage rates.Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta and Adm. Michael G. Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, testify at 10 a.m. before the Senate Armed Services Committee about the American strategies in Iraq and Afghanistan.At 10, the Senate Banking Committee takes up Alan B. Kreuger's nomination to join the president's Council of Economic Advisers, among others. At 2:30 p.m., the panel will examine the implications for the United States in Europe's debt crisis.Pet Night on Capitol Hill begins at 4:30 p.m.

        
Perry Video Calls Obama 'President Zero'
        
Romney Recruits Congressional Republicans
        
G.O.P. Hopefuls Take Early Aim at Obama Deficit Plan
        
Senators Hold Pep Rally for Deficit Panel
        
Perry Sees Message in New York; Faults Bachmann HPV Claim

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); CONSERVATISM (74%); CAUCUSES (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); CENSUS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); ELECTION LAW (71%); JOB CREATION (69%); POOR POPULATION (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (67%); JUDGES (67%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%); DISCRIMINATION (66%); DISASTER RELIEF (64%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (61%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); POVERTY RATES (60%); RACE & RACISM (50%); THANKSGIVING (50%) deficit reduction panel; Middle East; Presidential Election of 2012; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); RICK PERRY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



979 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Setbacks

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times, plus a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
In Today's Times:
After two and a half years of stagnation on peace negotiations in the Middle East, the United States is facing the prospect of having to share or cede its role as an architect of the talks, Helene Cooper and Steven Lee Meyers report. On Wednesday, President Obama's last-ditch effort to head off Palestinian efforts to join the United Nations faltered, forcing American diplomats to grapple with how to deal with the question of Palestinian statehood on the global agenda.The Federal Reserve announced an unconventional plan on Wednesday to reduce borrowing costs for businesses and consumers, trying once more to spur economic growth despite Republican demands that it refrain from any expansion of its stimulus program, Binyamin Appelbaum writes. The Fed's policy-making committee said in a statement that it was acting because it saw little prospect that the economy would expand fast enough and soon enough to help the 25 million Americans unable to find full-time work.The House rejected a stop-gap spending measure that would have funded the federal government past Sept. 30, delivering a surprise defeat to Republican leaders, Robert Pear and Jennifer Steinhauer report. Lawmakers on Capitol Hill need to pass a spending bill before Oct. 1, the start of the new fiscal year, or risk a shutdown, but conservative Republicans are seeking more cuts while Democrats want more funding for disaster aid.The 12 members of the special Congressional committee that is supposed to come up with more than a trillion dollars in spending cuts before Thanksgiving are the targets of intense efforts by lobbyists and executives seeking to minimize the cuts to their industries, Eric Lichtblau writes. The panel's broad mandate, the automatic cuts that will kick in if it fails, and its fast-approaching deadline have set off the lobbying blitz.A federal judge in Washington has upheld a section of the Voting Rights Act that requires certain parts of the country to have their elections and voting procedures closely monitored by the Justice Department despite protests from officials in Shelby County, Ala., who argued the law was unconstitutional, Campbell Robertson reports. Congress reauthorized the law in 2006 for 25 years, and rightly so, the judge said, given the history and current existence of racial discrimination in voting.On the campaign trail, a central theme of Gov. Rick Perry's message has been his job creation record in Texas. But now, Richard A. Oppel reports, he'll have to explain Texas's rising unemployment rate and new census figures which are expected to show the state's poverty rate higher than the national average.Meanwhile, his chief rival, former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, is playing up his lifestyle as a common man. Ashley Parker writes that Mr. Romney has been trying to distance himself from characterizations that he is out of touch by frequently sharing "regular-guy moments," such as eating fast food and flying on the budget carrier Southwest Airlines.
Happening in Washington:
The special deficit panel meets at 10 a.m.At 8:30 a.m., the Labor Department releases weekly jobless claims, following at 10 with mass layoff for August.Also at 10, the Conference Board puts out leading economic indicators and the Federal Housing Finance Agency releases home price indices, both for August. Freddie Mac releases weekly mortgage rates.Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta and Adm. Michael G. Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, testify at 10 a.m. before the Senate Armed Services Committee about the American strategies in Iraq and Afghanistan.At 10, the Senate Banking Committee takes up Alan B. Kreuger's nomination to join the president's Council of Economic Advisers, among others. At 2:30 p.m., the panel will examine the implications for the United States in Europe's debt crisis.Pet Night on Capitol Hill begins at 4:30 p.m. 

        
Perry Video Calls Obama 'President Zero'
        
Romney Recruits Congressional Republicans
        
G.O.P. Hopefuls Take Early Aim at Obama Deficit Plan
        
Senators Hold Pep Rally for Deficit Panel
        
Perry Sees Message in New York; Faults Bachmann HPV Claim

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); CONSERVATISM (74%); CAUCUSES (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); CENSUS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); ELECTION LAW (71%); JOB CREATION (69%); POOR POPULATION (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (67%); JUDGES (67%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%); DISCRIMINATION (66%); DISASTER RELIEF (64%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (61%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); POVERTY RATES (60%); RACE & RACISM (50%); THANKSGIVING (50%) deficit reduction panel; Middle East; Presidential Election of 2012; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); RICK PERRY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



980 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Setbacks

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times, plus a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
In Today's Times:
After two and a half years of stagnation on peace negotiations in the Middle East, the United States is facing the prospect of having to share or cede its role as an architect of the talks, Helene Cooper and Steven Lee Meyers report. On Wednesday, President Obama's last-ditch effort to head off Palestinian efforts to join the United Nations faltered, forcing American diplomats to grapple with how to deal with the question of Palestinian statehood on the global agenda.The Federal Reserve announced an unconventional plan on Wednesday to reduce borrowing costs for businesses and consumers, trying once more to spur economic growth despite Republican demands that it refrain from any expansion of its stimulus program, Binyamin Appelbaum writes. The Fed's policy-making committee said in a statement that it was acting because it saw little prospect that the economy would expand fast enough and soon enough to help the 25 million Americans unable to find full-time work.The House rejected a stopgap spending measure that would have funded the federal government past Sept. 30, delivering a surprise defeat to Republican leaders, Robert Pear and Jennifer Steinhauer report. Lawmakers on Capitol Hill need to pass a spending bill before Oct. 1, the start of the new fiscal year, or risk a shutdown, but conservative Republicans are seeking more cuts while Democrats want more funding for disaster aid.The 12 members of the special Congressional committee that is supposed to come up with more than a trillion dollars in spending cuts before Thanksgiving are the targets of intense efforts by lobbyists and executives seeking to minimize the cuts to their industries, Eric Lichtblau writes. The panel's broad mandate, the automatic cuts that will kick in if it fails, and its fast-approaching deadline have set off the lobbying blitz.A federal judge in Washington has upheld a section of the Voting Rights Act that requires certain parts of the country to have their elections and voting procedures closely monitored by the Justice Department despite protests from officials in Shelby County, Ala., who argued the law was unconstitutional, Campbell Robertson reports. Congress reauthorized the law in 2006 for 25 years, and rightly so, the judge said, given the history and current existence of racial discrimination in voting.On the campaign trail, a central theme of Gov. Rick Perry's message has been his job creation record in Texas. But now, Richard A. Oppel reports, he'll have to explain Texas's rising unemployment rate and new census figures which are expected to show the state's poverty rate higher than the national average.Meanwhile, his chief rival, former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, is playing up his lifestyle as a common man. Ashley Parker writes that Mr. Romney has been trying to distance himself from characterizations that he is out of touch by frequently sharing "regular-guy moments," such as eating fast food and flying on the budget carrier Southwest Airlines.
Happening in Washington:
The special deficit panel meets at 10 a.m.At 8:30 a.m., the Labor Department releases weekly jobless claims, following at 10 with mass layoff for August.Also at 10, the Conference Board puts out leading economic indicators and the Federal Housing Finance Agency releases home price indices, both for August. Freddie Mac releases weekly mortgage rates.Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta and Adm. Michael G. Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, testify at 10 a.m. before the Senate Armed Services Committee about the American strategies in Iraq and Afghanistan.At 10, the Senate Banking Committee takes up Alan B. Kreuger's nomination to join the president's Council of Economic Advisers, among others. At 2:30 p.m., the panel will examine the implications for the United States in Europe's debt crisis.Pet Night on Capitol Hill begins at 4:30 p.m. 

        
Perry Video Calls Obama 'President Zero'
        
Romney Recruits Congressional Republicans
        
G.O.P. Hopefuls Take Early Aim at Obama Deficit Plan
        
Senators Hold Pep Rally for Deficit Panel
        
Perry Sees Message in New York; Faults Bachmann HPV Claim

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); CONSERVATISM (74%); CAUCUSES (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); CENSUS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); ELECTION LAW (71%); JOB CREATION (69%); POOR POPULATION (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (67%); JUDGES (67%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%); DISCRIMINATION (66%); DISASTER RELIEF (64%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (61%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); POVERTY RATES (60%); RACE & RACISM (50%); THANKSGIVING (50%) deficit reduction panel; Middle East; Presidential Election of 2012; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); RICK PERRY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



981 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: Debate Preview: Six Things to Watch

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Six things to watch for as the Republican presidential candidates debate on Thursday night in Orlando. 

 BODY:
The Republican campaign for president remains a geographically limited affair as the candidates bounce between a handful of crucial, early-voting states like Iowa, New Hampshire and Florida.
But nationally televised debates like the one to be broadcast by Fox on Thursday night are bringing the increasingly testy campaign to a much broader audience. 
Nine candidates will take the stage in Orlando in what is likely to feature the ongoing slugfest between Mitt Romney and Rick Perry. The campaigns for both men traded charges and accusations with abandon on Wednesday as they prepared for the debate.
But the debate will also offer another opportunity for mistakes by the two men, which could provide hope to the others on the stage. Michele Bachmann and Jon Huntsman are each eager for some attention that might provide a spark to their sluggish campaigns.
And, as always, the two-hour forum is one of the relatively rare, unscripted events in which unexpected issues can emerge. The return of Gary E. Johnson, the former governor of New Mexico, to the stage is certain to add a new wrinkle in the conversation.
Here are six things to watch for as the debate unfolds on Thursday night.
1. My job record is bigger than yours. As they seek to define each other, Mr. Romney and Mr. Perry are engaged in a fierce battle over who has created more jobs - and who would be better equipped to create them as president. Both campaigns regard the issue of job creation as the seminal one for the 2012 campaign, and neither is willing to concede anything.
On Wednesday, Mr. Romney sent out an e-mail calling Mr. Perry "Governor Sub-Zero," accusing him of presiding over job losses in Texas last month and of having an 8 percent unemployment rate in his state for two years.
Mr. Perry didn't wait long to hit back, asserting that Texas created more jobs this summer than Massachusetts did in the four years that Mr. Romney was governor. "Being 47th in job creation and killing 18,000 jobs with Romneycare is not a record to brag about," Mr. Perry's spokesman, Ray Sullivan, said.
How long will it take for that subject to come up in the debate on Thursday? I'm going to guess 7 minutes. But tweet your guesses to me at @shearm, and we'll see who's right.
2. The third rail in the Sunshine State. For the third debate in a row, look for Social Security to take center stage. It is, after all, Florida - home to a great number of retirees who look with some trepidation on anyone who meddles with the program.
Mr. Romney held a town hall meeting on Wednesday at which he raised six questions for Mr. Perry about Social Security, including whether the Texas governor wants to turn the federal program over to the states. Mr. Romney is sure to ask that question again on the stage.
Mr. Perry has so far stood by his critique of the system, while trying to reassure seniors that he does not intend changes that would affect them. On Wednesday night, Mr. Perry told Sean Hannity on Fox News that alleging he would take Social Security away from seniors is an "old tactic" used by Democrats.
He warned his rivals not to "scare our seniors with this issue," saying: "That's not appropriate. It's irresponsible."
3. Bachmann's bid for attention. Mrs. Bachmann gave her campaign a much-needed jolt at the last debate by accusing Mr. Perry of violating conservative Tea Party principles when he issued an executive order requiring the use of the HPV vaccine for young girls.
But just as quickly, she ground her momentum by repeating a supporter's claim that the vaccine had caused "retardation" in her child. That comment was roundly denounced, not only by other Republicans but by Ed Rollins, who had just recently stepped down as her campaign manager.
Can she do the first part again - find an issue that will help her break into the Romney-Perry conversation? The challenge is to do the first part without the second.
4. Piling on the president over taxes. If there's a break in the intraparty tension tonight, it will come at the expense of President Obama, whose decision this week to seek higher taxes on the wealthy has provided fresh meat for the Republican candidates to chew on.
All of the major candidates have condemned Mr. Obama's proposals. But doing so in front of a national audience can help to fire up the conservative base and weaken Mr. Obama at the same time.
There's little doubt that the subject will come up. But watch for the competition among Republicans to be the one who has the best, most catchy line. Maybe Ron Paul? 
5. Who loves Israel more? Mr. Perry and Mr. Romney both made it clear this week that they intended to make an issue of Mr. Obama's handling of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Mr. Perry, in particular, has accused the president of "appeasement" when it comes to the issue.
The fact that Thursday's debate is taking place in Florida will only make the issue more likely to flare. The state is home to plenty of Jewish voters for whom Israel is a critical issue, and the candidates are sure to play to that audience.
The subject may not provide much contrast between the candidates on the stage. But it will offer the Republicans another opportunity to go after Mr. Obama on a perceived vulnerability that could loom large in a close general election.
6. Give me liberty or... This debate will feature two fierce libertarians - Gary Johnson and Ron Paul - which should make for some interesting moments.
Mr. Johnson has been excluded from most of the recent debates because of his low standing in the polls, but Fox News organizers said he managed to exceed 1 percent in five recent polls, the minimum standard they set for participation.
The former New Mexico governor is probably best known for his support of the legalization of marijuana and other drugs - something Mr. Paul has also supported - so that issue is likely to re-emerge in this debate. 
And following the last debate, when Mr. Paul was asked whether a young man without health insurance should be left to go without treatment - which was greeted with some chants of "let him die" from the crowd - expect more questions along these lines.

        
Perry Wrestles With His Political History
        
Five Things to Watch for in Iowa Debate
        
Romney and Perry Unleash Testy Rivalry at Debate
        
G.O.P. Front-Runners Offer Contrast in Styles
        
Why Pawlenty's Candidacy Failed

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL DEBATES (91%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); NETWORK TELEVISION (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (66%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (60%) 2012; debates; gary johnson; jobs; Michele Bachmann; mitt romney; Republicans; rick perry; ron paul; social security; Bachmann, Michele M; Johnson, Gary E; Paul, Ron; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt; Debates (Political); Presidential Election of 2012; Fox News Channel; Republican Party; Elections; The 44th President; The Caucus; The White House

ORGANIZATION: Fox News Channel; Republican Party

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); RICK PERRY (90%); MICHELE BACHMANN (90%); RON PAUL (79%) Bachmann, Michele M; Johnson, Gary E; Paul, Ron; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



982 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: Pandit Named Chairman of Clearing House Board

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: The Clearing House Association, one of Wall Street's oldest and most influential lobbying groups, has tapped Citigroup's chief executive, Vikram S. Pandit, to lead its supervisory board. 

 BODY:
The Clearing House Association, one of Wall Street's oldest and most influential lobbying groups, has tapped Citigroup's chief executive, Vikram S. Pandit, to lead its supervisory board. 
Mr. Pandit will replace one of his top competitors, John Stumpf, head of Wells Fargo, and begin his new role early next year. The association also announced on Thursday that U.S. Bancorp's chief executive, Richard K. Davis, will serve as vice chairman of the board. 
"I look forward to working with the Clearing House to continue to build on its strong legacy of banking advocacy and payments leadership," Mr. Pandit, who has run Citigroup since the onset of the financial crisis in late 2007, said in a statement. 
 Owned by the world's largest commercial banks, the group has a dual purpose. One arm acts as a Wall Street trade group that wields considerable influence in Washington. The other wing, the Clearing House Payments Company, offers wire transfer systems for banks. 
In a statement, the group noted that its board appointments come at a crucial time for the banking industry, which faces a wave of new regulations in the aftermath of the financial crisis. The Dodd-Frank financial regulatory law overhauled several core banking businesses, including derivatives and mortgage lending. 
"Vikram's leadership and vision will be critical to our owner banks as they navigate unprecedented regulatory and supervisory changes in the U.S. and abroad," said Paul Saltzman, the group's general counsel said. 
The group's chief executive, James Aramanda, added that "Vikram's commercial banking expertise and leadership at Citi will be critical as our owner banks continue to deal with the many changes, challenges and opportunities facing the financial services industry." 

        
Union Brandishes Banker Pay in Fight With Wall St.
        
Wall Street Lobbies Treasury on Dodd-Frank

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); APPOINTMENTS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); LOBBYING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); BOARD CHANGES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); WIRE TRANSFERS (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (67%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (66%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (66%); LAWYERS (64%) Citigroup; Dodd-Frank; John Stumpf; The Clearing House; Vikram S. Pandit; Wells Fargo &; Pandit, Vikram S; Appointments and Executive Changes; Clearing House Association; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Revolving Door

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); WELLS FARGO & CO (91%); U S BANCORP (72%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); WFC (NYSE) (91%); USB (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: VIKRAM PANDIT (95%); JOHN G STUMPF (73%); RICHARD K DAVIS (56%) Pandit, Vikram S

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



983 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Idiocy and Advocacy

BYLINE: TIMOTHY EGAN


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama should take the lead in opposing bad environmental decisions - and in advancing good ones. 

 BODY:
The medical community was outraged after the Republican presidential candidate Michele Bachmann called a vaccine to prevent cervical cancer "dangerous," and then passed on a know-nothingism from a stranger who said it could lead to "mental retardation."
These health professionals were stirred to take a stand, as reported in a Science Times piece by my colleague Denise Grady, because ill-informed politicians can set back vaccination rates for years, ultimately leading to more premature deaths. 
It would be nice to see this kind of collective corrective applied to other types of political malpractice as well - on the environment, for one. 
Some of the leading Republican presidential candidates, stuffed with the best bad science that oil and coal companies can buy, continue to insist that global warming is a hoax. No matter that an overwhelming majority of climate scientists have long concluded that the earth is changing in a dangerous way, the deniers have found a home in Bachmann's party.

And while it may be an applause line to bash professional consensus, gross misstatements can do real harm. If your neighbor said he was going to dump garbage on a sidewalk you both shared, you would hold him responsible for trashing the common ground. We should take the same attitude toward people who want to allow more poisons, carcinogens and greenhouse gases into the little orb we all inhabit. 
"We look like a joke," Bill Clinton said this week, on the growing crazy caucus of earth-unfriendly politicians. "If you're an American, the best thing you can do is to make it politically unacceptable for people to engage in denial."
With climate change, it's easy to follow the money that bought the nutty opinions: big coal-burning utilities have the most to lose in the effort to curb greenhouse gases, and have been purchasing opinion and politicians as the urgency has increased.
It's the same pattern with other environmental issues. New air pollution rules set to go into effect in 2012 could save 34,000 lives each year and prevent more than 400,000 asthma attacks, says the American Lung Association. 
But these rules, and their enforcers, are being attacked by the Republicans who close their eyes to the obvious - that is, the earth's increasingly foul meteorological moods. Newt Gingrich, who is never far from a bad idea, has called for the elimination of the Environmental Protection Agency. Bachmann, whose ideas have roughly the same relationship with truth as a hot dog does with health food, has said similar things. And this week she went after new food safety regulations. Here again, Bachmann is taking positions that could harm, even kill, the rest of us: contaminated food causes 3,000 deaths a year in the United States and leads to 48 million cases of illness. 
All of the above calls for defensive, rear-guard action against powerful forces and the politicians who "run from science," to use the words of Jon Huntsman, the lone Republican voice for things even a third-grader knows to be true. 
But the flip side is the need for advocacy and real passion on behalf of a cleaner, more healthy world. And on that front, President Obama has been with the clowns cleaning up after the horses at the end of the parade. 
A number of Nobel laureates this week joined the voices of those calling on Obama to stop the proposed 1,700-mile pipeline from Canadian tar sands fields to the United States. It's a messy deal no matter how you look at it. Midwesterners, including the Republican governor of Nebraska, Dave Heineman, are concerned about leaks into that great body of clean water that lies beneath the American midsection, the Ogallala Aquifer. The NASA scientist Jim Hansen compares the pipeline to a dirty needle from a fellow addict, our neighbor to the north. 
I know that many in the environmental community look at Obama like a long-ago ex-boyfriend, one who's gone corporate and never returns calls anymore. To his credit, he's made real progress on curbing auto emissions by increasing fuel economy standards. The United States finally has a forward-looking auto sector, building smart, efficient cars here that can sell well in countries that are far ahead of us on this count. 
But on most other environmental issues, Obama has been passive, silent or dismissive. It's not enough for him to oppose bad people with bad ideas. 
Next year's election will be won by the passionate. Republicans can count on a Tea Party filled with rage and demanding to "take our country back." Democrats will need more than lawyers, teachers, unions, ethnic minorities and liberal urbanites. They will need that army of door-bell ringers, mostly young, some of them hopelessly naive, who believe in a world less trashed by the detritus of convenience-enhancing modernity.
These volunteers, who played a big role in Obama's historic election, will go out in rain, wind and darkness, and they will take abuse and slammed doors, for no pay, and little reward or recognition. But they will not leave the house, or their Facebook pages, if all they have to defend is the status quo. 

        
Just Sign Here
        
Liars' Club
        
The Pelosi-Bachmann Conundrum
        
Just Another Massachusetts Miracle
        
Global Warming's Cold Shoulder

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CANCER (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (86%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); PRODUCT SAFETY (78%); CARCINOGENS (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); METEOROLOGY (76%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (75%); GLOBAL WARMING (74%); GREENHOUSE GASES (74%); AIR POLLUTION (74%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (73%); CERVICAL CANCER (73%); MENTAL RETARDATION (72%); FOOD ADDITIVES REGULATION (70%); ASTHMA (70%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (69%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (69%); COAL INDUSTRY (69%); FOOD SAFETY (62%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (60%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (58%) climate change; Michele Bachmann; president obama; republicans; the environment; Obama, Barack; Environment; Republican Party; United States; Timothy Egan

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: MICHELE BACHMANN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011



984 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 366 words

HEADLINE: Bill Clinton 'Back to Work' With a New Book

BYLINE: JULIE BOSMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Former President Bill Clinton is offering up a plan to fix the economy and push the United States into the future in a new book to be published by Knopf in November. 

 BODY:
Former President Bill Clinton is offering up a plan to fix the economy and push the United States into the future in a new book to be published by Knopf in November. 
In "Back to Work," Mr. Clinton will make the case for why government matters, explaining his ideas on energy, job creation and financial responsibility, his publisher said on Thursday. 
"I wrote this book because I love my country and I'm concerned about our future," Mr. Clinton said in a statement. "As I often said when I first ran for president in 1992, America at its core is an idea - the idea that no matter who you are or where you're from, if you work hard and play by the rules, you'll have the freedom and opportunity to pursue your own dreams and leave your kids a country where they can chase theirs."
Mr. Clinton wrote the book without any assistance over the last several months, a person familiar with the deal said. The publication will send him on a national book tour this fall just as the presidential campaign heats up. 
Knopf, part of Random House, has planned an initial print run of 300,000 copies. The publisher declined to disclose the advance. 
In the book, Mr. Clinton argues that the United States has lost its commitment to fiscal responsibility, shared prosperity and balanced growth, and has failed to invest in technology and infrastructure. 
Mr. Clinton set a publishing record of sorts with "My Life," his best-selling autobiography,when he was paid an advance of more than $10 million, then believed to be the largest amount ever paid for a nonfiction book. "My Life," a sprawling 957-page memoir, was published in June 2004 and sold 2.4 million copies in hardcover. 
Knopf paid an advance of about $5 million for "Giving," a book on activism and service that was published in September 2007. It sold 215,000 copies in hardcover, according to Nielsen BookScan, which typically tracks 75 percent of retail printed sales.

        
Lady Gaga, Usher, Bono and The Edge to Perform for Clinton Foundation
        
'Girl With the Dragon Tattoo' Sells More Than 1 Million Digital Copies
        
Bill Clinton's Camp Coy About Possible 'Hangover 2' Cameo
        
Bill Clinton Wishes Lil Wayne 'a Good Life' After Jail
        
Knopf to Publish Sotomayor Memoir

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); BESTSELLERS (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); BOOK SALES (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); LITERATURE (78%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (78%); WRITERS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); JOB CREATION (57%) Bill Clinton; Knopf; Clinton, Bill; Book Trade and Publishing; Books and Literature; United States Economy; Knopf, Alfred A, Inc; Books

ORGANIZATION: Knopf, Alfred A, Inc

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (97%); BONO (51%) Clinton, Bill

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011



985 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Defends Livery Cab Proposal

BYLINE: KATE TAYLOR


HIGHLIGHT: Mr. Bloomberg wants the governor to sign a measure that would allow up to 30,000 livery cabs to be refitted to pick up street hails in Manhattan north of Central Park and the rest of the city. 

 BODY:
As Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo sends mixed messages about whether he would consider signing legislation allowing street hails of livery cabs in much of New York City, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg vociferously defended the measure on Thursday as crucial to the city's economic well-being. 
Responding to a question about the financial markets, the mayor said that he expected New York City to lose tax revenue as Wall Street profits fell, and that the state should allow the city to find other sources of revenue. 
"That's one of the reasons I've been urging the governor and working with him, and I think we'll get this done -- I hope so, anyways -- to expand taxi service," he said. "For a start, you've got four and a half boroughs in the city that have no taxi service, which is really an outrage, and the tax revenues from selling more medallions would be something like a billion dollars into the city's budget. That will pay for an awful lot of teachers and cops and firefighters." 
Mr. Bloomberg wants the governor to sign a measure that would allow up to 30,000 livery cabs to be refitted to pick up street hails in Manhattan north of Central Park and in the other four boroughs. The measure was approved by the Legislature, but has not been forwarded to the governor for his formal consideration. Some advocates for the proposal have suggested that the measure might need to be amended to address criticism from opponents of the bill. 
At a news conference on Monday, according to The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Cuomo expressed doubts about the proposal.
Mr. Cuomo's spokesman, Josh Vlasto, said the governor "has not taken a position. We'll review the bill when we get it."
Mr. Bloomberg praised the sponsor of the livery cab bill, Assemblyman Carl E. Heastie, and Karim Camara, the leader of the Assembly's Black, Puerto Rican, Hispanic and Asian Legislative Caucus, who have strongly supported the measure.
"These guys understand just how serious it is to have communities that just do not have taxi service," he said. "This has gone on for decades, it can't go on anymore," he continued, adding: "And just think about a billion dollars towards meeting the expenses of the city without costing the taxpayers one penny, not one penny. More service, no expense, sounds like a win-win for everybody. So I think that's why it's going to get done."
The mayor made the comments about livery cabs during a wide-ranging question-and-answer session at the Seward Park Library on the Lower East Side, where the mayor announced that the city's library systems would be giving children and teenagers an amnesty period, through Oct. 31, to return overdue books without paying fines.
Mr. Bloomberg waxed nostalgic about his childhood love for the novel "Johnny Tremain," and said that his mother, Charlotte R. Bloomberg, who died in June, had long insisted on borrowing books from the library, rather than letting him buy them for her. "And we have not found any books at home that she did not return," he said.
After that reminiscence, his mood turned testier when he was asked about a recent article in The New York Daily News, which reported that Robert K. Steel, the deputy mayor for economic development, was at his house in Greenwich, Conn., on a recent Sunday. The mayor has an executive order in place stipulating that all top officials, except those granted a waiver, live in the city. Since taking the job last year, Mr. Steel has rented an apartment in Chelsea, where he has said he spends weekdays. 
"He moved into the city right away and lives in the city five days a week -- what is your problem again?" the mayor responded to the questioner.
"Why do you try to assassinate somebody?" he continued. "He lives in the city, he pays his taxes in the city, he's complied with every single thing."

        
Before 9/11 Ceremony, Back-Room Maneuvers
        
After Same-Sex Marriage, Same-Sex Divorce
        
Albany, 8:22 A.M.
        
Sanctions in Albany, and Sunshine in Brazil
        
Heated Debate on Wages, and Less So on Corn

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); APPROVALS (72%); POLITICS (70%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (70%); CAUCUSES (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); AMNESTY (50%) Andrew M. Cuomo; livery cabs; Michael R. Bloomberg; taxicabs; Bloomberg, Michael R; Car Services and Livery Cabs; Cuomo, Andrew M; Taxicabs and Taxicab Drivers; Albany; City Hall; Transportation

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (93%); ANDREW CUOMO (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011



986 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 5456 words

HEADLINE: Live Blogging the G.O.P. Debate in Orlando

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Nine candidates will take the debate stage tonight in Orlando, Fla., in what is likely to feature the continuing slugfest between Mitt Romney and Rick Perry. 

 BODY:
Nine candidates will take the stage tonight in Orlando, Fla., in what is likely to feature the continuing slugfest between Mitt Romney and Rick Perry. The campaigns for both men traded charges and accusations with abandon on Wednesday as they prepared for the debate.
Michele Bachmann and Jon M. Huntsman Jr. are each eager for some attention that might provide a spark to their sluggish campaigns. And, as always, the two-hour forum is one of the relatively rare, unscripted events in which unexpected issues can emerge. 
The return of Gary E. Johnson, the former governor of New Mexico, to the stage is certain to add a new wrinkle in the conversation.
Follow the action on our live debate dashboard and also on Twitter at @thecaucus. We will bring you the highlights, quick analysis, fact checking and scenes from Orlando. And then come back to NYTimes.com for the best coverage of the 2012 campaign.
0:36 A.M. | Debate Wrap-Up
ORLANDO, Fla. - The debate is over and things are winding down here in the Google-inspired press file. Many of the reporters are packing up their computers. The political spinning is over.
Thanks for reading our live blog of the Republican debate. Jeff Zeleny and Jim Rutenberg have full coverage of the debate in their story for Friday morning's paper.
And come back to The Caucus in the days ahead as we dissect the implications of this debate.
- 
0:35 A.M. | Examining Perry's Explanation on HPV Vaccine
Coming under fire once again from his Republican rivals for his controversial executive order mandating that sixth-grade girls receive a vaccine against HPV, Gov. Rick Perry of Texas took a different tack on Thursday's debate than in recent encounters. While some critics have suggested he was swayed by a former aide working as a lobbyist for the drug's manufacturer, Mr. Perry suggested he had issued the order after urging by Texans.
"I got lobbied by a 31-year-old young lady who had stage four cervical cancer. I spent a lot of time with her. She came by my office. She talked to me about this program," Mr. Perry said, adding, "I erred on the side of life, and I will always err on the side of life, as a governor and as the president of the United States."
The woman in question, Heather Burcham, did meet with Mr. Perry before she passed away from the disease and urged him to support the vaccinations. But they did not meet until after Mr. Perry issued the order in February 2007, according to a report by ABC News. 
As the governor's decision came under fire from some parents and conservative groups, Ms. Burcham lobbied the legislature to uphold his order. Mr. Perry later spoke at her funeral.
- 
11:42 P.M. | Fact Check: Bachmann on Obama Approval Rating
President Obama is not particularly popular these days: According to a recent New York Times/CBS News poll, Mr. Obama has a job approval rating of just 43 percent. 
But that's not low enough for Mrs. Bachmann, who said that Mr. Obama "has the lowest public approval ratings of any president in modern time."
Mr. Obama, however, still has a ways to go before he reaches the presidential basement. For example, former president Jimmy Carter had a much lower approval rating, 31 percent, in a Times poll conducted at a similar time during his presidency.
According to Gallup, which provides a list of the lowest all-time approval ratings for every president since Nixon, Mr. Obama's current job approval rating for is 38 percent. His predecessor, George W. Bush, bottomed out at 25 percent, while Mr. Bush's father, George H.W. Bush, hit a low of 29 percent. Bill Clinton bottomed out at 37 percent, and Ronald Reagan at 35 percent. 
And of course there's Richard M. Nixon, who got to a Gallup job approval low of 24 percent before resigning the presidency.
The lowest approval rating registered for a president by the Gallup poll? Harry S. Truman, who reached a low 22 percent approval rating during his presidency.
- 
10:51 P.M. | Bachmann and Tax Rates 
Mrs. Bachmann was asked, "Out of every dollar I earn, how much do you think that I deserve to keep?" She didn't exactly answer, except to say that the questioner should keep his money but acknowledged that "Obviously we have to give money back to the government so that we can run the government."
In case you're wondering about what current policy is on this front, the average American pays 18.1 cents of every dollar he or she earns in taxes to the federal government, according to the Tax Policy Center.
Sounds low, right? 
That's because the tax rates that get the most political attention are marginal tax rates, meaning taxes on every additional dollar a worker earns. The highest tax rate - 35 percent on taxable income over $379,150, for a married couple filing jointly - doesn't apply to all income, and doesn't apply to most American families anyway because they earn far less. Many Americans, remember, don't pay any federal income taxes.
- 
11:01 P.M. | Bachmann Walks Back HPV Comments 
Mrs. Bachmann was asked if she stood by comments she made after last week's debate that a vaccine was potentially dangerous. In post-debate interviews, she had related how a tearful woman approached her and said her daughter had experienced "retardation" after being given the HPV vaccine. She went on to say last week that Mr. Perry, who promoted the vaccine for Texas schoolgirls, potentially put them at risk by forcing "an injection of what could potentially be a very dangerous drug.'' (The mandate was blocked from being put into place.)
Tonight Mrs. Bachmann sought to separate herself from any suggestion that HPV vaccine could cause retardation, which has been debunked by experts. "I didn't make that claim nor did I make that statement,'' she said. But she clearly did raise a general health alarm last week over the vaccine: "It can have very dangerous side effects,'' she said in a television interview. A report published last month by the Institute of Medicine, which advises the government, found that the HPV vaccine was safe.
- 
10:49 P.M. | Fact Check: Obama's Foreign Policy
Mr. Romney repeated the familiar Republican charge that President Obama has apologized for the United States around the world. It is true that early in his term, Mr. Obama promised to abandon policies of his predecessor, George W. Bush.
But it is hard to find evidence that Mr. Obama ever said he was "sorry" for the United States. And in some speeches, notably after winning the Nobel Peace Prize, Mr. Obama offered a robust defense of American policies, including the war in Afghanistan.
Asked about Israel, Mr. Romney accused Mr. Obama of publicly airing disputes with the Israeli government and said, "You don't allow an inch of space to exist between you and your friends and allies." The president has clashed with Israel over its demand that the Israeli government freeze construction of Jewish settlements in the West Bank.
But the administration has also deepened military cooperation between the United States and Israel. At the United Nations on Wednesday, Mr. Obama delivered perhaps the strongest statement of support for Israel of his presidency and repeated that the United States will oppose the Palestinian drive for recognition of a state at the United Nations.
The troubled American relationship with Pakistan prompted head-scratching responses by some of the candidates. Rick Santorum said he would respond to the threat of Pakistan's nuclear weapons falling into the wrong hands by cultivating closer relations with its former president, Pervez Musharraf. He left office in 2008, deeply discredited with Pakistanis and at odds with the Bush administration. He now lives in self-exile in London.
- 
10:47 P.M. | Romney and Perry Defend Gubernatorial Records
ORLANDO, Fla. - It's often said that being a governor is an advantage when running for president. They get to point to things they've accomplished. And they don't have all those pesky votes that lawmakers have to defend.
But the repeated clashes between Mr. Romney and Mr. Perry during tonight's debate are making it clear that having a gubernatorial record can be just as dangerous to a presidential candidate.
Mr. Perry has spent the night on the defensive about his actions on immigration and the HPV vaccine. He got boos from the audience on both issues.
Mr. Romney's health care plan continues to be the political bane of his existence as his rivals repeatedly question the wisdom of the plan and attack its similarity to the health care plan by President Obama.
On the defensive on the issue, Mr. Romney tried to explain the specifics of the health plan, admitting that "our plan in Massachusetts has some good parts and some bad parts."
In his case, Mr. Perry had to defend his state against data that shows it rates 49th in medicaid coverage for poor people.
Both men, however, have so far decided the best route is to defend their choices as a state's chief executive, even if the decisions now make campaigning difficult.
"I think Americans just don't know sometimes which Mitt Romney they are dealing with," Mr. Perry said.
Mr. Romney responded: "I'm going to stand by my positions. One reason to elect me is that I know what I stand for. I have written it down."
- 
10:38 P.M. | More on Gays in the Military: The Crowd's Reaction 
One of the evening's most provocative moments did not come from the candidates. It came from the crowd.
Members of the audience loudly booed the gay solider who asked about the Don't Ask Don't Tell policy - a highly unusual reaction, given the deference generally paid to active members of the military.
The question about the military's policy on gay soldiers was posed to former Senator Rick Santorum, who did not address the booing or the solider who asked the question.
Mr. Santorum said that "sexual activity has no place in the military."
- 
10:35 P.M. | Fact Check: Johnson on Education
Mr. Johnson, joining a chorus of candidates who criticized Washington's role in education, claimed the federal Department of Education "gives each state 11 cents out of every dollar that every state spends, but it comes with 16 cents worth of strings attached.''
"So what America does not understand is that it's a negative to take federal money,'' he said.
In fact, there are no unfunded federal "mandates,'' according to the Education Department. Federal education laws are voluntary - states that don't want to follow the regulations need only agree not to accept federal money for schools.
The requirements of federal education law - such as meeting student achievement standards under the current No Child Left Behind law - do not kick in until states cash the check. Almost all do, because they welcome the support, though some states have chosen not to make the trade off.
- 
10:33 P.M. | Policy vs. the Personal
Mr. Cain is proving once again how the power of the survivor anecdote undermines efforts to curb excessive costs and overutilization in health care. The use of expensive imaging tests, often using machines that are owned by doctors prescribing the tests, has exploded in the last decade and is one of the big drivers of healthcare inflation. But for every scientific study that shows how much can be saved, there are hundreds of stories of cancers caught early. The Medicare and health insurance bureaucrats are still struggling with this issue.
- 
10:28 P.M. | Perry's Relationship With Bush 
ORLANDO - Are Rick Perry and George W. Bush B.F.F.'s? 
There have been plenty of stories about how the two Texas politicians have a somewhat rocky relationship. So Mr. Perry was asked about it directly.
"We've got a great rapport," Mr. Perry said, adding that he talks with the former president on a "relatively regular basis."
"I highly respect the president," he added.
But there are some disagreements, he acknowledged, saying that he disagreed with the president's support of a prescription drug program for seniors and the "No Child Left Behind" education law.
- 
10:24 P.M. | Gay Soldier Asks About Military Policy 
ORLANDO - Sometimes the toughest questions come from regular people on the Internet. 
A question from Stephen Hill, a gay soldier who served in Iraq, put Mr. Santorum on the spot, asking how he would deal with him and other gay soldiers if he were president. 
Mr. Santorum said that the elimination of the "don't ask, don't tell" policy amounts to "playing social experimentation" with the military and vowed to reinstitute the policy if he were president.
He said gay soldiers who are now publicly out would not be targeted because they came out under the current law. But he said going forward, he would change the policy back.
- 
10:20 P.M. | Fact Check: Johnson on Balanced Budget
Mr. Johnson pledged to submit a balanced budget to Congress. One of the main ways he said he would achieve a balanced budget, he implied, was cutting foreign aid.
What share of federal spending does foreign aid account for? About 1 percent.
- 
10:17 P.M. | Fact Check: Romney on 'Race to the Top' Grants
In a lightening-round question for all the candidates about the role of the federal government in education, Mr. Perry accused Mr. Romney of supporting President Obama's Race to the Top grant contest, the administration's chief education initiative, which offered states $4.3 billion to implement programs to lift student achievement.
"There is one person on this stage'' who supports Race to the Top, Mr. Perry said, meaning Mr. Romney. "Being in favor of the Obama Race to the Top, that is not conservative.''
Mr. Romney at first dodged the question, then said, "I don't support any program he's describing.''
At a town hall-style meeting in Miami Wednesday, Mr. Romney praised Mr. Obama's education secretary, Arne Duncan, the prime architect of Race to the Top. "I think Secretary Duncan has done some good things," he said. "I hope that's not heresy in this room. He for instance has a program called Race to the Top, which encourages schools to have more choice, more testing of kids, more evaluation of teachers. Those are things I think make sense.''
The Race to the Top contest, in which Mr. Perry refused to participate, encourages states to lift caps on charter schools - that is, to offer "choice," a goal Mr. Perry said during his answer to the question that he supported.
- 
10:13 P.M. | The Phone Is Ringing
ORLANDO - Another 3 a.m. moment.
It was the Democratic primary campaign that featured an ad by Hillary Rodham Clinton questioning Barack Obama's ability to handle a 3 a.m. call in the White House.
Fox moderators were clearly inspired by that ad when they asked Mr. Perry how he would handle a call at 3 a.m. in which Pakistan had lost control of nuclear weapons.
Mr. Perry never answered the question directly, instead saying that he would build relationships with countries in the region who could help handle the situation.
"Our allies need to understand clearly that we are their friends," he said. "Today, we don't have the allies in the region to assist us."
- 
10:07 P.M. | Perry Gives No Ground on Immigration
ORLANDO - The Republican rivals pounced with ferocity on Mr. Perry on the issue of immigration, repeatedly accusing him of being soft on the issue and blasting him for agreeing to subsidize college tuition for the children of illegal immigrants.
The criticism was relentless, but Mr. Perry angrily refused to give in, saying that anyone who didn't want to educate the children of illegal immigrants doesn't "have a heart."
"This was a state issue," he declared. "Texans voted on it and I still support it greatly."
The issue is a dangerous one for Mr. Perry, as was underlined by the reaction of the audience to Mr. Perry's answers. After he said he still supports the subsidies for the college tuition, he was booed heartily by some.
The criticism came from Mr. Romney, who said Mr. Perry's program amounted to "a magnet" that "draws people into this country." He alleged that some illegal immigrant in Mr. Perry's program receives a discount of $22,000 a year.
"That shouldn't be allowed, it makes no sense at all," Mr. Romney said.
Mrs. Bachmann said the same thing. And Rick Santorum, the former senator from Pennsylvania, tried to hammer Mr. Perry on the idea of a subsidy for illegal immigrants.
Mr. Santorum said that no one on the stage was arguing that the children of illegal immigrants should not be allowed to go to Texas universities. Just that they shouldn't be given subsidies to do it.
"Why should they be given preferential treatment in this country?" Mr. Santorum said.
Mr. Perry at times looked like he was being buffeted by all sides. But he refused to give any ground on an issue that could be critical as he seeks the support of conservative Tea Party voters.
- 
9:59 P.M. | Perry on Immigration 
Mr. Perry received strong applause from some in the audience with his comments tonight on offering in-state tuition for illegal immigrant kids. First, he changed the direction of the conversation by talking about how strong he's been on border security. He said Texas has spent $400 million of taxpayer dollars on making the border secure. Then, he accused fellow Republicans of having no heart if they don't want to educate children who end up in Texas by nature of their parents' decisions. "That's what Texans wanted to do," he said. "Of 181 members of the Legislature, there were only four dissenting votes. I still support it greatly." 
But he also explained how tough he has been on immigration by saying he supported the state's amicus brief defending defend the Arizona-style immigration law in a lawsuit. That's interesting to note because he has consistently opposed Arizona-style laws in Texas, saying they are not appropriate for a state that is 38 percent Latino. 
- 
9:57 P.M. | Romney's Immigration Record
Mr. Romney is portraying himself tonight (echoing comments on the stump) as tough on illegal immigration as he seeks to contrast himself with Mr. Perry, who supported in-state tuition in Texas for undocumented immigrant students. It is true that Mr. Romney vetoed a bill to offer in-state tuition to children of illegal immigrants while governor of Massachusetts. And recently he has called pathways to citizenship "amnesty." But in 2005, Mr. Romney called offering a means of gaining citizenship "reasonable proposals." So on some aspects of immigration, Mr. Romney is taking a tougher stance for this election.
- 
9:53 P.M. | Fact Check: Santorum on Public Employee Pay
ORLANDO - Mr. Santorum lit into public employee unions, saying that they were imposing fiscal hardships on states and that "30 to 40 percent of union employees make above their private sector equivalents," referring to federal workers.
There have been a flurry of studies from liberal and conservative think-tanks purporting to find that federal employees or public employees as a whole are either overpaid or underpaid relative to their private sector counterparts. And one widely-cited report by USA Today found that federal employees "earn higher average salaries than private-sector workers in more than eight out of 10 occupations."
But some independent analyses, like this one by Factcheck.org, have questioned the methodology of many of the findings, noting that relatively few of them fully account for variations by region, educational attainment, the average age of workers, and other factors. Federal workers, for example, tend to be older, and work in the same job for longer, than private sector workers.
USA Today also noted that, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, dozens of federal job descriptions, covering some 750,000 employees - such as air-traffic controllers and tax collectors - did not have direct equivalents in the private sector.
While there is some evidence that some federal workers make more than private sector employees in similar fields, direct comparisons can be hard to make.
- 
9:46 P.M. | Is Obama a Socialist?
ORLANDO - Is President Obama a socialist? 
The Fox News moderators zeroed-in on the many times that Republican presidential candidates have called Mr. Obama that, noting how easily the word seemed to roll off their tongues.
But then the questioners put Mr. Romney on the spot, asking him whether he agreed.
He did not, quite. He avoided calling Mr. Obama a socialist, though he said the president got his "inspiration" from the social democrats in Europe.
But Mr. Romney had some other titles for the president. He called him a "big-spending liberal" and said the title he wants to see is: former president of the United States.
- 
9:43 P.M. | Explainer: Johnson and the Value-Added Tax
Gary Johnson, the former governor of New Mexico, talked about his interest in replacing federal incomes taxes with a federal consumption tax. This might sound extreme, but actually such policies are basically in place throughout the rest of the world, in the form of a value-added tax.
Here's a primer on how such taxes work, and a map showing all the countries that use it.
Value-added taxes have fans among economists on both the left and the right, many of whom think a value-added tax is all but inevitable in the United States.
That said, many economists expect that a consumption tax will complement existing federal income taxes, not replace it entirely.
- 
9:42 P.M. | Romney vs. Perry on Social Security 
ORLANDO - After a brief, polite opening few minutes, Mr. Perry and Mr. Romney came back after a commercial break ready for verbal combat.
Asked about charges that have been made about his position on Social Security, Mr. Perry quipped that it was "not the first time that Mitt's been wrong on some issues before."
He defended his position on Social Security, saying his comments about turning it over to the state referred only to state employees and retirees.
That didn't satisfy Mr. Romney, who accused Mr. Perry of saying something different in his recent book and on the campaign trail.
"There's a Rick Perry out there," he said, "that's saying the federal government shouldn't be in the pension business. You better find that Rick Perry and get him to stop saying that."
Standing next to each other, Mr. Perry was not about to let that stand. He looked straight at Mr. Romney and accused him of changing his tune about his state's health care plan between editions of his own book.
In the hardback copy, Mr. Perry said, "you said it was exactly what America needed to have. Then in your paperback, you took that line out."
As the back and forth continued, Mr. Perry remarked: "It's kinda badmitten."
But Mr. Romney wasn't quite done. 
"I actually wrote my book," he said, suggesting, perhaps that Mr. Perry did not. And he denied that he has retreated from anything he has written.
- 
9:37 P.M. | Fact Check: Perry's Social Security Comments
Rick Perry got into quite a scuffle with Mitt Romney over Mr. Perry's past comments on Social Security, on which Mr. Romney has been slamming Mr. Perry for weeks. Mr. Perry said tonight that he "never said" Social Security should be returned to the states, but that's not exactly true. On TV talk shows and in his 2010 book "Fed Up," Mr. Perry said Social Security was an unconstitutional Ponzi scheme that should be managed by the states. Tonight, Mr. Perry backtracked and said he offered the notion of returning Social Security to the states as an "option" - but that it was only one such option. 
- 
9:24 P.M. | Fact Check: Unemployment and Retraining
Newt Gingrich suggests that people receiving unemployment benefits should be required to be enrolled in retraining programs. Providing more training for displaced workers sounds like an attractive idea, especially since more highly-educated workers tend to have lower unemployment rates. Workers who have lost jobs in industries or careers that are on the structural decline -- like manufacturing -- could certainly benefit from such programs since they need to acquire new skills to find work. 
However, it's not clear that all unemployed workers need to be retrained for new careers or industries. Most economists argue that the primary reason for today's jobs crisis is a lack of demand for workers of all kinds, as opposed to an underskilled workforce. 
Another point worth noting is that Mr. Gingrich seems to be somewhat on the same wavelength as the Obama administration, which has shown interest in a Georgia program that ties unemployment benefits to training (in this case, on-the-job training).
- 
9:27 P.M. | Spreading the Love 
ORLANDO - The Fox moderators of the Republican debate are doing their best to spread the love around.
By the first break, each of the nine candidates had gotten a question. That breaks from a tendency in the last few debates to focus on the leading candidates, Mr. Romney, Mr. Perry and Mrs. Bachmann.
Even the long-shot in the race, Gary Johnson, the former governor of New Mexico, got his shot early.
"I vetoed more bills than any governor in the history of the United States," he said, in answer to why he would be a better choice than Representative Ron Paul of Texas, the other libertarian in the race.
- 
09:19 PM | Cain on Romney Tax Plan: 'That Dog Won't Hunt'
Herman Cain seems to be a favorite underdog of these G.O.P. debate crowds. With his 9-9-9 plan - 9 percent income tax, 9 percent business tax, 9 percent national sales tax - he appeals to Tea Party supporters who want flat, low taxes. 
"It treats all businesses the same," said Mr. Cain, winning applause. He contrasted his plan with Mr. Romney's tax plan, which he said is tired, linked to the old cumbersome codes: "That dog won't hunt."
- 
9:18 P.M. | Perry, Job Growth and Tort Reform
Mr. Perry, in his first answer about how he'd spur job growth, talked about the tort reform he installed in Texas to help doctors flood the state, and work without fear of frivolous lawsuits. But independent fact-checks have found that tort reform has had little effect on creating new jobs for doctors in Texas, and that by far, the biggest driver has been population growth. (From 2002 to 2010, the state population grew by 20 percent, while the number of doctors - already far underrepresented in Texas - went up 24 percent.)
- 
09:12 PM | Fact Check: The 'Texas Miracle'
Mr. Perry, asked about how to incentivize businesses to hire, responded by talking about job growth in Texas during his tenure as governor, attributing it to policies lowering taxes and reducing regulations.
 The Times has written plenty about the so-called "Texas Miracle," and other reasons why Texas has added so many jobs (higher energy prices, in particular).
 
It is also not clear that reducing taxes and regulations nationwide would encourage businesses to hire. The National Federation of Independent Business, a small-business industry group, has found that small businesses have consistently named "poor sales" as their "most important problem," not taxes or "government requirements and red tape."
- 
9:15 P.M. | Off to a More Civil Start
ORLANDO - The Republican candidates started Thursday night's debate with a kind of respite from the intraparty attacks and a renewed critique of President Obama.
Asked about jobs and the economy - the top subject from Google users online - Gov. Rick Perry bragged about his record in Texas but chose not to slam Mitt Romney's record in Massachusetts - yet.
Mr. Romney, too, took an early pass when he was asked about how to create jobs. He said Mr. Obama has "done everything wrong" and said "government and regulators have to be allies of business not foes."
Asked how he would define "rich," Mr. Romney punted, saying that "I don't try and define who's rich and who's not rich. I want everybody in America to be rich."
Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota also did not lash out in the early minutes of the debate. Instead, she focused on her desire to see Americans keep more of the money they make.
"I think you earned every dollar, you should get to keep every dollar," she said. "That's your money."
But stay tuned. It's bound to get a bit more testy as the debate goes on.
- 
08:08 PM | Romney Not Picking a Fight with Wall Street Journal
Mr. Romney is not going to walk into a fight with the Wall Street Journal editorial page, so he attacks President Obama, instead, on the first question about the Journal's criticism of his economic plan as tepid. 
A wealthy man himself, worth hundreds of millions of dollars, he also ducks the follow-up question of how he defines rich.
- 
8:20 P.M. | The Happiest Place on Earth
ORLANDO, Fla. - Welcome to tonight's filing center - brought to you by Google.
No, seriously, Google. The search engine behemoth is one of the sponsors of this evening's debate and they got the Google Buzz started early when they revamped the traditional filing center - normally a cavernous room full of old folding tables, bad food and a thermostat set either 10 degrees too hot or cold - in Google's sleek, high-tech image.
Reporters were greeted with a large room that more closely resembled the lobby of a W Hotel - plush white carpets, shiny primary-colored tables, bean bag chairs, and low white couches. One reporter only half-jokingly asked if he'd accidentally wandered into Fashion Week. The couches sat in rows facing flat screen TVs, they curved around in half moons to create causal pits for hanging out, and the red-curtained room was filled with a huge screen. (We may or may not have taken a brief nap there).
And then there was the food. The Washington Post's Dan Balz had his first smoothie "in the early afternoon," and reported he had enjoyed "several." In addition to the smoothie bar - flavors included mango, strawberry, and pina colada (which were curiously blue and green colored) - there were jars filled with candy, a coffee station, and even a root beer float bar. 
Rumor has it that when Google first unveiled the filing center, it also had foosball and pool tables - but no actual tables and chairs on which the reporters could do, you know, actual work. The Florida Republican Party quickly intervened, and the white filing tables were brought in.
As we waited for the debate to begin, the free wireless Internet slowed to a crawl (C'mon Google! Isn't this kind of your bag?), and one reporter joked: "Maybe they could just bring back the foosball tables, so at least we'd have something to do."
- 
07:51 PM | Obama Camp Offers Debate Pre-Spin
ORLANDO, Fla. - What does the Obama high command think about the Republican race as the debate gets underway tonight?
David Axelrod, who left the White House but still serves as one of the president's top political advisers, urged Americans to watch the Fox debate.
"I think it's really enlightening, because what you see is that they really don't have anything to offer," Mr. Axelrod told Al Sharpton on MSNBC Thursday night. It's the same policies, he said, "that got us into this mess in the first place."
Mr. Axelrod and other advisers to Mr. Obama will be spinning after the debate, trying to pitch their views of the Republican contest. But even before the debate, Mr. Axelrod was eager to shape the narrative.
"The last time Mitt Romney said, 'I'll roll back on the rules on Wall Street, let's unleash Wall Street,' which is of course where he made all of his fortune," Mr. Axelrod said. "We've seen this movie before, Reverend. We know how it ends. It's not good for America."
- 
07:48 PM | Prelude to a Debate
ORLANDO, Fla. - The Republican debate Thursday night is just the most high-profile part of a long weekend of political handshaking in the Sunshine State.
In the hours before the debate, the candidates courted social conservatives in the state, appearing at a forum sponsored by the Florida Faith and Freedom Coalition.
One by one, the candidates each pledged to support conservative social values if they are elected president. 
Herman Cain declared that the "pursuit of happiness is under attack" and repeated his popular line that the biggest crisis facing America is a "severe deficiency of leadership crisis in the White House."
Donald J. Trump appeared by video, apologizing for being in Australia for a speech but saying the country could not afford "four more years of nonsense" coming from the White House.
Rick Perry described his upbringing as a "way of life that was centered around hard work, faith and family." Mitt Romney said that "Americans want freedom, but they don't want free stuff."
After the debate, the candidates will wake up early Friday to address the Conservative Political Action Committee at its conference, also conveniently held here.
But most are planning on leaving before Saturday, when Republican activists from around Florida will cast ballots in the state party's straw poll. That vote will take place Thursday afternoon.
- 

        
Fact Checking the G.O.P. Debate in Orlando
        
Debate Preview: Six Things to Watch
        
Gary Johnson Earns Debate Spot
        
Romney Tries to Pin Familiar 'Flip-Flop' Label on Perry
        
Perry Wrestles With His Political History

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); VACCINES (87%); LOBBYING (87%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (71%); CONSERVATISM (71%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (69%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); CANCER (67%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); CERVICAL CANCER (64%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (60%) debates; Debates (Political); Presidential Election of 2012; Orlando (Fla); Elections

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); RICK PERRY (89%); MICHELE BACHMANN (57%); JON HUNTSMAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (96%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Orlando (Fla)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011



987 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 219 words

HEADLINE: Perry Calls Prayer Vital to His Life

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Perry tells religious conservatives that he has "been driven to my knees on many occasions." 

 BODY:
ORLANDO -- Rick Perry appeared in front of religious conservatives here before the Republican debate, telling the crowd of hundreds that prayer has helped him succeed in life and politics.
"I couldn't have done so without being driven to my knees on many occasions," Mr. Perry said Thursday afternoon. "I ask you for your prayers. I ask you to pray for our country. I ask you to pray for our president -- to give him wisdom. To open his eyes."
Mr. Perry largely avoided the subjects that are sure to dominate the debate -- his position on Social Security and the debate over which state, Texas or Massachusetts, had a better record on jobs.
"It's time for a change," he said. "And I'm not talking about the rhetoric of change. I'm talking about the record of change. And I've got that record."
Mr. Perry decried what he called a growing "nanny state" government and assailed President Obama for failing to manage the economy effectively. And he mocked the president for saying that the country is in an economic recovery.
"That is not an economic recovery, Mr. President," Mr. Perry said. "That is an economic disaster."
But given the audience -- the Florida Faith and Freedom Coalition -- Mr. Perry focused on his faith.
"My concern is not whether God is on my side," he said. "My greatest concern is to be on God's side."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (91%); RELIGION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (76%) Obama, Barack; Perry, Rick; Faith and Freedom Coalition; Florida; Elections; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Faith and Freedom Coalition

PERSON: RICK PERRY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (88%) Obama, Barack; Perry, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Florida

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011



988 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 401 words

HEADLINE: Filings for Jobless Benefits Fell Last Week, Data Shows

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Applications for jobless benefits decreased 9,000 in the week ended Sept. 17 to 423,000, Labor Department figures showed Thursday. But that was higher than the 420,000 claims forecast, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. The average number of claims in the past month rose for a fifth straight week, to the highest level since July 16. 
Meanwhile, the index of leading economic indicators increased more than forecast in August, easing concern the economy was headed for recession.
The index showed that the outlook for the next three to six months climbed 0.3 percent after a 0.6 percent gain in July, according to the Conference Board, a New York-based research group that releases the report. Economists projected a 0.1 percent rise in August, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.
Four of the 10 components of the leading index contributed to the increase in August. In addition to the money supply and building permits, they included slower supplier delivery times.
The rise in money supply could signal that investors might be losing confidence in the global economy and reducing their holdings of riskier assets.
A higher level of initial jobless claims raises the odds that American companies may put off plans to increase employment, making it difficult for joblessness to fall below 9 percent.
''These numbers are consistent with a job market that is essentially in suspended animation,'' said Brian Jones, an economist at Societe Generale in New York.
Estimates for first-time claims ranged from 408,000 to 430,000 in the Bloomberg survey of 45 economists. The Labor Department initially reported the previous week's applications at 428,000.
The four-week moving average of initial jobless claims, a less-volatile measure, climbed to 421,000 from 420,500.
The number of people continuing to collect jobless benefits fell by 28,000 in the week ended Sept. 10 to 3.73 million. The continuing claims figure does not include the number of workers receiving extended benefits under federal programs.
Those who have used up their traditional benefits and are now collecting emergency and extended payments decreased by about 103,350 to 3.5 million in the week ended Sept. 3.
The unemployment rate among people eligible for benefits, which tends to track the jobless rate, held at 3 percent in the week ended Sept. 10, the Labor Department report showed.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); MONEY SUPPLY (76%); EMPLOYMENT (65%); BUILDING PERMITS (52%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (58%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (54%)

TICKER: GLE (PAR) (54%); GLE (BIT) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011



989 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Eyes Business Opportunities in Libya as Embassy Reopens

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

 BODY:
TRIPOLI, Libya -- The United States formally reopened its embassy in Libya on Thursday as the returning ambassador said that his government was cautiously optimistic about the country's future and already trying to help American companies exploit business opportunities here.
Speaking to reporters after the ceremonial flag-raising over a makeshift post that was once his residence, Ambassador Gene A. Cretz said that about two weeks ago -- roughly a week after forces loyal to the deposed Libyan leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, were driven out of Tripoli -- he participated in a State Department conference call with about 150 American companies hoping to do business with Libya. 
''We know that oil is the jewel in the crown of Libyan natural resources, but even in Qaddafi's time they were starting from A to Z in terms of building infrastructure and other things'' after the country had begun opening up to the West six years ago, he said. ''If we can get American companies here on a fairly big scale, which we will try to do everything we can to do that, then this will redound to improve the situation in the United States with respect to our own jobs.''
His remarks were a rare nod to the tacit economic stakes in the Libyan conflict for the United States and other Western countries, not only because of Libya's oil resources but also because of the goods and services those resources enable it to purchase.
Oil was never the ''predominant reason'' for the American intervention, Mr. Cretz said, but his comments -- which came at a moment when the fighters who chased out Colonel Qaddafi have not yet caught him or fully vanquished his forces -- underlined the American eagerness for a cut of any potential profits.
Elsewhere on Thursday, Tripoli's new leaders continued to inch forward toward their twin goals of subduing the old government and building a new one. Officials of neighboring Tunisia said Thursday that on the previous night their security forces had arrested the last of Colonel Qaddafi's figurehead prime ministers, Al-Baghdadi Ali al-Mahmoudi, for crossing its border illegally while fleeing Libya. A Tunisian court immediately sentenced him to six months in prison for illegal entry, the government said.
The Libyan provisional government said that anti-Qaddafi fighters continued to battle loyalist forces in the area around Colonel Qaddafi's southern stronghold and onetime childhood home of Sabha. Anti-Qaddafi fighters also remained locked in standoffs with Qaddafi forces in his other two remaining bastions, Surt on the Mediterranean coast and Bani Walid in the desert south of Tripoli.
Libya's provisional government has already said it is eager to welcome Western businesses, although both Mr. Cretz and the Libyan leaders acknowledged that addressing the rampant corruption of the Qaddafi era remains a potential hurdle.
In a news conference last week, Mustafa Abdel-Jalil, chairman of Libya's Transitional National Council -- the civilian leadership of the former rebels -- said the new government would even give its Western backers some ''priority'' in access to Libyan business.
There had been no promises to its Western supporters, he said, ''But as a faithful Muslim people we will appreciate these efforts and they will have priority within a framework of transparency.''
But he also acknowledged that the ''framework of transparency'' could be a significant qualification, at least as far as the many contracts with Western companies signed under the Qaddafi government. While the provisional government had respected ''all legitimate contracts'' from the Qaddafi period, it was undertaking a systematic review ''for whatever financial corruption may have tainted them.''
Cleaning up the former government's habitual corruption was all the United States hoped for, Mr. Cretz said, but he acknowledged it was a tall order. ''The stench of corruption affected everything that the Qaddafi regime did with respect to commercial entities,'' he said. ''The bureaucracy was rife with it because that was the way it was done, and the family was at the top. Every deal involved a payoff to the Qaddafi family or a crony.''
Still, Libya's new leaders, he said, appeared ''willing to accede to international standards of transparency and accountability, and I think that is a good thing.''
In the final years of the Qaddafi government, Mr. Cretz wrote vividly of its rampant corruption in diplomatic cables released by the anti-secrecy group WikiLeaks, including a 2009 dispatch titled ''Al-Qadhafi: The Philosopher-King Keeps His Hand In.'' After the release of those cables late last year, he said Thursday, he had been ''physically threatened'' and ''I had to leave immediately.''
The United States abandoned its embassy when the uprising began in February, and on May 1, the empty building was ransacked by Qaddafi forces, ostensibly in retaliation for the death of Colonel Qaddafi's son, Seif al-Arab, in a NATO bombing.
Reviewing the situation he found on his return, Mr. Cretz cited several factors for concern, including the challenge of disarming the newly armed populace and many autonomous militias; the many fissures within the anti-Qaddafi forces along regional or other lines; and the potential for militant or at least anti-Western Islamists to take control.
But so far, he said, the Islamists were emphasizing moderation, democracy and pluralism, and the Libyan leaders deserved a chance to overcome their differences. ''Don't underestimate the Libyan people because they have shown for the last six months what a truly heroic people is,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A ceremony on Thursday celebrated the reopening of the American Embassy in Tripoli, which was abandoned in February. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOISES SAMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); PRISONS (65%); SENTENCING (64%); CORRUPTION (60%); JAIL SENTENCING (60%); CONFERENCE CALLS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (91%) MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011



990 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: With a Joint Statement, the Leading Economies Try to Reassure World Markets

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The world's major economies released an unexpected joint statement Thursday night reiterating their commitment to the stability of banks and financial markets, seeking to soothe nervous investors on six continents. 
''We are committed to supporting growth, implementing credible fiscal consolidation plans, and ensuring strong sustainable growth,'' said the communique from the Group of 20 nations. ''This will require a collective and bold action plan with everyone doing their part.''
The statement, however, did not include commitments to new actions, or any talk of additional support for Europe. It also does not hasten the plan of the member nations to announce any actions at a November meeting of heads of state in Cannes, France.
The possibility of more immediate action also was not discussed at a dinner for member finance ministers and central bank governors Thursday night, according to a senior Treasury Department official who insisted on anonymity because the conversations were private.
Instead, the members of the European monetary union expressed their determination to complete a planned expansion of a European bailout fund, so that it can purchase the debt of troubled countries. Other nations expressed their concern and support, the official said.
The snap decision to issue a statement -- the dinner was intended as an informal gathering before the opening Friday of the annual meeting of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund -- is a reflection of rising concern about the health of the global economy.
The statement cited problems including indebted countries, fragile banks, turbulent markets, weak growth and ''unacceptably high unemployment.''
The I.M.F. -World Bank meeting is traditionally a chance for nations to address problems in the developing world. This year, however, the meeting has been given over to talk about problems in Europe and the United States.
There is growing evidence that those issues are weighing on the economies of developing nations by unsettling their markets.
''The immediate problem at hand is to get growth back on track in developed countries,'' the countries Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa said in a statement Thursday. In language more often directed at poorer countries, the five nations called on developed countries ''to adopt responsible macroeconomic and financial policies.''
Even traditional allies are expressing growing frustration with the political paralysis and economic problems of Europe and the United States.
The leaders of six members of the G-20 released a letter Thursday to Nicolas Sarkozy, president of France, calling for ''decisive action to support growth, confidence and credibility.''
Five of the six countries -- Australia, Canada, Indonesia, Mexico and South Korea -- have little in common except that they are not members of the European Union. Yet they, along with the sixth, Britain, stressed the need for stronger steps.
''The barriers to action are now political as much as economic,'' the letter said. ''We must send a clear signal that we are ready to take the actions necessary to maintain growth and stability for all for the future.''
The United States elevated the meetings of the G-20 during the financial crisis after concluding that its traditional meetings with six other countries -- the Group of 7 -- were excluding too many important players. The nations now represented at the table account for about 85 percent of global economic output.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); EXTERNAL DEBT (87%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); EURO CRISIS (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); DEBTOR NATIONS (74%); MONETARY UNIONS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); BAILOUTS (73%); BRICS COUNTRIES (73%); EURO (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); INDIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); CHINA (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2011



991 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Hunger in America, Visible if You Look for It

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN. 
jwarren@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
James Warren writes a column for the Chicago News Cooperative.
The growing army of hidden hungry is such that you may miss them, indistinguishable from other commuters on a well-lit el platform.
I thought about that after Mayor Rahm Emanuel and Forrest Claypool, head of the Chicago Transit Authority, on Tuesday unveiled a $25 million touch-up to improve the look, feel and safety of stations at a time when there is little money for the central problems of aging tracks, century-old maintenance facilities, subpar power stations and poor signaling equipment.
The Missile's made-for-TV stagecraft at the Logan Square Blue Line stop heralded a smartly-done renovation now planned for 100 stations. But the system's true capital needs are $10 billion, with an estimated $4.5 billion alone needed for the Red Line, during a time of declining funding from Springfield and Washington and as many are blind to mass transit's link to economic and cultural vitality. 
By coincidence, later on Tuesday I met Rector Bonnie Perry of All Saints Episcopal Church on the North Side for coffee. The church is a few blocks from the Missile's home and runs a food pantry on Tuesday evenings.
By 4 p.m., or 90 minutes before opening, 38 people were already lined up outside and 20 more were in the nave. Two weeks earlier, the pantry cooked meals for and gave out food to 406 people, a record.
Those in line constituted a diverse group racially and ethnically, mostly in their 50s and older. Most live within a half-mile of the church, itself a stone's throw from million-dollar homes.
''You could be on the el with any of them and just not know,'' Ms. Perry said of the disarmingly well-dressed group of pantry patrons.
Tom West, 45, said, ''This is a necessity,'' as he stood on a line the likes of which nationwide have not inspired either collective attention or concern.
Mr. West is a high school graduate and former hospital food services worker on disability. His rent is $415 a month, and he collects just under $1,200 a month in disability and food stamps.
He personifies the sobering if bloodless figures released Wednesday by the Greater Chicago Food Depository, which in the past year has seen 5.1 million visits to the 650 pantries, soup kitchens and shelters it assists in Cook County. That's a 60 percent increase since 2008, and staff members are stunned by what has played out.
The food depository crunched 2009 census and Department of Agriculture data to discern ''food insecurity,'' essentially poor access to food or a decent diet, or not knowing where a next meal will come from.
The depository broke down figures for every city neighborhood and for suburban Cook County. As sky-high as the city numbers are, the surprises are in the suburbs. About 11 percent of people in LaGrange are hungry or ill-fed, while the figure is 15 percent in Elmwood Park, 6 percent in Burr Ridge, 14 percent in Wheeling and 5 percent even in posh Kenilworth, among others.
The complex subject of hunger was addressed at a daylong forum at the food depository's facility near Midway Airport, where a 270,000-square-foot warehouse holds as much as 14 million pounds of food, one-fourth from the federal government.
At a session moderated by Carol Marin, the journalist, experts voiced frustration over a lack of public discussion on hunger, as well as poor communications and ineffective mobilization by advocates.
''Poverty has dropped out of public discourse for about a decade,'' said Charles Payne Jr., an expert in social services and urban education at the University of Chicago.
The tricky connections among hunger, poor performance in school, violence, social pathologies and access to healthy food all came up, and hunger apparently is most sensitive to changes in employment.
As I listened, I flashed back to both the line of quietly desperate clients at All Saints and to the spruced-up Logan Square el station.
The pantry provides stop-gap calories for clients who symbolize the isolation of those at the bottom of the pecking order. But it also suggests the lack of will of those at the top and the forgetfulness of most in the middle.
We ignore the hungry like we ignore our decaying rail lines. You might think about both next time you're on an el or a bus and look around at folks who look just like you -- but perhaps aren't.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); FOOD SECURITY (89%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (71%); RELIGION (71%); POWER PLANTS (70%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (66%); FOOD INDUSTRY (64%); AGING (56%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (55%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (55%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011



992 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Off-Label Use of H.I.V. Medications Is Catalyst for More Controversy

BYLINE: By SCOTT JAMES. 
Scott James is an Emmy-winning television journalist and novelist who lives in San Francisco.; sjames@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
At a cafe on 18th Street in San Francisco, David sipped coffee and talked about the regimen of daily H.I.V. pills he recently started: Viread in July, and then last month, Isentress. He looked exhausted.
David does not have H.I.V. For 20 years he has endured a debilitating case of chronic fatigue syndrome, which has left him unable to work.
''All of a sudden my brain dies,'' said David, who asked that only his first name be used for privacy reasons. ''I have such a narrow range of concentration.'' He hopes the medications will help. 
Thirty years into the AIDS epidemic, the antiretroviral drugs that have provided lifesaving treatment for many of those infected with H.I.V. -- 1.1 million in the United States today -- are now being used or considered for treating other ailments.
When medications have proved safe and effective for most patients, it is standard practice for pharmaceutical companies to see if the drugs have other applications. But with H.I.V. drugs, the practice has been unusually contentious, fostering debates about questionable science, safety and profiteering, and concerns that thousands of Americans infected with H.I.V. cannot get the medications.
At the center of this controversy is Gilead Sciences, a pharmaceutical company based in Foster City. Gilead is the nation's largest producer of H.I.V. medications (including Viread, Truvada, and Atripla), accounting for nearly half the United States market for them. The drugs produce $3.5 billion in annual revenues, with profit margins reportedly twice the industry average.
The Food and Drug Administration approved Viread to treat chronic hepatitis B in adults in 2008. And after a 2009 study linked chronic fatigue syndrome -- a mysterious tiredness believed to afflict a million Americans -- to a retrovirus called XMRV, there was hope that H.I.V. drugs might also work against that ailment.
But that idea soured when other scientists could not reproduce the study's results and concluded that the findings were incorrect. Science, the medical journal that published the research (conducted by the Whittemore Peterson Institute of Reno) has taken the unusual step of asking for a retraction. The institute declined to comment for this column.
Many doctors still believe that some type of virus, even if not XMRV, causes chronic fatigue, and an unknown number of patients continue to try H.I.V. drugs as a treatment. With a doctor's prescription, Dave said he received his medications from drug makers without charge, because of his low income.
But critics say the speculative use of H.I.V. medications is ethically dubious because a growing number of Americans infected with H.I.V. are apparently unable to get the medications.
Atripla, a combination of three H.I.V. drugs including Viread, wholesales for nearly $20,000 per patient annually. The recession has created greater need for financial aid, with jobless Americans losing health insurance, and strapped states (11 so far, but not California) have placed infected people on waiting lists to receive medication free or at reduced cost -- more than 9,000 now, up from just 100 in 2008.
''They are giving these lifesaving drugs to people who do not have H.I.V., while those who need them are going without,'' said Ged Kenslea, a spokesman for AIDS Healthcare Foundation, a patient advocacy group and medication provider.
Mr. Kenslea said there was also concern about research into using the drugs as prophylaxis, to prevent H.I.V. infection in high-risk groups. Research in San Francisco and elsewhere has found that preventative use is only partly effective, raising safety concerns that such use would create a false sense of protection and increase infections. The foundation has protested the idea in news media campaigns and at Gilead's headquarters.
Officials at Gilead declined to be interviewed. But in an e-mail, Gregg Alton, a Gilead vice president, said the company recognized the ''crisis'' emerging with states' H.I.V. medication financing and had reduced or frozen prices and was providing drugs for free to many on waiting lists.
''We take our responsibility to patients seriously and we are working hard to ensure that H.I.V. patients who need our medicines have access to them, regardless of their ability to pay,'' Mr. Alton wrote.
Cara Miller, a Gilead spokeswoman, acknowledged in e-mails that the use of the company's drugs for H.I.V. prevention, rather than just disease treatment, has spurred a discussion ''about an important topic.'' She also wrote that Gilead had not knowingly given away drugs for free for treating chronic fatigue, since that was not an approved use.
Approved use or not, David continues the regimen, hoping for results. ''I just had five days of what I call C.F.S. hell,'' he said. ''I couldn't leave the apartment.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); OFF LABEL DRUG USE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); CHRONIC DISEASES (89%); ANTIVIRALS (89%); CHRONIC FATIGUE SYNDROME (89%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); AIDS & HIV (76%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (76%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (75%); VIRUSES (74%); DRUG SAFETY (74%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (74%); ETHICS (72%); HEPATITIS (70%); EPIDEMICS (69%); HEPATITIS B (69%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); APPROVALS (67%); COMPANY PROFITS (64%); US FDA APPROVALS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011



993 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 3790 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Movies
Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign-language films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.
'Art History' (No rating, 1:14) Mumblecore mush from Joe Swanberg. A director (Mr. Swanberg) filming a sex scene grows irked when the female half of the scene falls for the male half. Not a particularly original premise, and nothing illuminating emerges from the apparently improvised chatter. (Neil Genzlinger)
'Bill Cunningham New York' (No rating, 1:24) Richard Press has made a sensitive portrait of a spiritual man whose devotion to fashion photography, that most worldly of pursuits, has chronicled an era. In street fashion, Mr. Cunningham, a photographer for The New York Times, has found something creative, life-affirming and free: proof of humanity amid the chaos of daily life. Interspersing lively interviews with affectionate commentary from longtime friends and subjects -- socialites, editors, models, eccentrics, dandies, avant-gardists, curators and neighbors -- Mr. Press has made an intimate portrait that feels more found than it does constructed. (Carina Chocano) 
'The Black Power Mixtape 1967-1975' (No rating, 1:40) This documentary, directed by Goran Hugo Olsson, assembles archival footage from Swedish television into a fresh and revealing chronicle of recent American history. The accompanying voice-overs, recorded more recently, sometimes distract from the power images, but the film is nonetheless a powerful and fascinating examination, from the outside, of the politics of race and resistance in an unsettled and still contested era. (A. O. Scott)
- 'Brighton Rock' (No rating, 1:51) By discarding most of the theological debate in the original Graham Greene novel, this story, moved up to 1964, is no longer a passion play but a gritty and despairing noir. That's good enough for me. (Stephen Holden)
'Captain America: The First Avenger' (PG-13, 2:04) Chris Evans is Steve Rogers, a World War II-era milquetoast turned beefcake who fights bad guys with a star-spangled shield. The film, the latest teaser for the Marvel Studios ''Avengers'' juggernaut, is spirited, corny fun, thanks mainly to a crackerjack supporting cast including Dominic Cooper, Hayley Atwell and Tommy Lee Jones as a surpassingly grumpy military man. (Scott)
'Circumstance' (No rating, 1:51, in Farsi) Two young women fall in love in Tehran, and their yearning for pleasure and freedom sets them at odds with family mores and, more dangerously, with the repressive power of the theocratic government. Filmed mainly in Lebanon with a cast drawn from the Iranian diaspora, this debut feature by the Iranian-American director Maryam Keshavarz is a lush and stylish melodrama whose excesses seem in keeping with its defense of the political power of hedonism. (Scott)
'Colombiana' (PG-13, 1:47) The latest lethal-but-sensitive-woman revenge fantasy from the fertile mind of Luc Besson (he's one of the film's producers and screenwriters; Olivier Megaton directed) is marked, to an even greater degree than usual, by clashing tones and overall preposterousness. His muse this time is Zoe Saldana, who proves perfectly adept at the essential skills of wielding large guns and crawling through narrow spaces while wearing skimpy or skin-tight clothing. (Mike Hale)
- 'Contagion' (PG-13, 1:46) Steven Soderbergh's smart, spooky thriller about a globe-sprinting pandemic is a paranoid freakout for the anti-government, Tea Party age. The terrific cast includes Matt Damon, Kate Winslet and Jennifer Ehle. (Manohla Dargis)
'Crazy, Stupid, Love' (PG-13, 1:58) A sane and smart comedy of romantic confusion, with Steve Carell as a wronged husband (Julianne Moore is his straying wife), befriended by a suave pickup artist played by Ryan Gosling. The film, which also stars Emma Stone, is very funny and, until an overlong, unnecessarily maudlin denouement, sharp and sensitive about the vagaries of human connection. (Scott)
'The Debt' (R, 1:53) In 1965, three Mossad operatives (played by Marton Csokas, Sam Worthington and Jessica Chastain) are in East Berlin on a secret mission to capture a Nazi war criminal. More than 30 years later, the three (now played by Tom Wilkinson, Ciaran Hinds and Helen Mirren) struggle with the gap between the official story of their exploits and the murky truth of the matter. Directed by John Madden and based on a 2007 Israeli film, this is a well-acted, efficient thriller that never quite lives up to the gravity and complexity of its themes. (Scott)
'Detective Dee and the Mystery of the Phantom Flame' (PG-13, 2:02, in Mandarin) Grand, complex, wobbling between silliness and sublimity, this new film from the Hong Kong action master Tsui Hark is a feast of large-scale C.G.I., kinetic combat and make-believe Chinese history. Andy Lau plays the title character, who must unravel a fiendishly intricate plot -- involving talking deer, spontaneous combustion and medieval bureaucratic procedure -- intended to disrupt the coronation of China's first empress. (Scott)
'Dolphin Tale' (PG, 1:52) This real-life story of an injured dolphin named Winter who was rescued from a fishing net in Florida and fitted with a prosthetic tail is pitched to a fairly young crowd, which will probably love it. It is larded with a lot of fictional additions to create drama, and parallels to the injured soldiers who figure in the plot are announced in cinematic capital letters. (Genzlinger)
'Don't Be Afraid of the Dark' (R, 1:40) This old-fashioned spooker suggests that dysfunctional families might benefit more from malignant demons than from a benign therapist. This film, reimagined from a 1973 TV movie, has a screenplay by Guillermo del Toro and Matthew Robbins and performances by Guy Pearce and Katie Holmes, whose appearance demonstrates that her terrified look is not that different from her everyday. (Jeannette Catsoulis)
'Drive' (R, 1:40) Sleek, cool and empty, Nicholas Winding Refn's fastidious Los Angeles noir stars Ryan Gosling as a nameless driver who becomes a chivalrous avenger when his lovely neighbor (Carey Mulligan) falls afoul of some nasty gangsters. The nastiest of them -- played by the great Albert Brooks -- is reason enough to see the movie. There are others, too, as long as you don't expect too much. (Scott)
- 'The Future' (R, 1:31) Miranda July, a surrealist for a drab, literal age, combines piquant observations of the emotional lives of the not-quite-young with imaginative inventions that are at once whimsical and perfectly serious. She plays Sophie, half of a couple (Hamish Linklater is the other) living in Los Angeles and wondering, in their mid-30s, what they will do when they grow up. Advice is supplied by the voice of the Moon, while philosophical commentary comes from a wounded cat named Paw-Paw. (Scott)
'Gainsbourg: A Heroic Life' (No rating, 2:02, in French) A standard biopic actually, directed with great affection by the French comic-strip artist Joann Sfar. A primer for the curious and a keepsake for the fans, it chronicles the musical career, the celebrated loves (including Brigitte Bardot and Jane Birkin) and the many cigarettes of Serge Gainsbourg, the French singer, songwriter and uninhibited talk-show guest who died in 1991. (Scott)
'Granito: How to Nail a Dictator' (No rating, 1:40, in English and Spanish) The activist filmmaker Pamela Yates revisits her 1984 feature debut, ''When the Mountains Tremble,'' one of the first and only documentary records of the Guatemalan civil war between indigenous insurgents and the genocidal military junta backed by the United States. Preferring clear-cut moral conflicts between noble peasants and brutal despots to political complexities and competing doctrines, Ms. Yates almost revels in the spirit of simplistic revolutionary solidarity. Like its dictator-nailing subtitle, ''Granito'' often feels in its certitude like an inversion of vintage neoconservatism. (Paul Brunick)
- 'Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2' (PG-13, 2:10) A grave and deeply satisfying end to the landmark series that comes with tears and howls, swirls of smoke, the shock of mortality and bittersweet smiles along with a script by Steve Kloves and direction from David Yates. (Dargis)
'The Help' (PG-13, 2:17) Viola Davis rises with grace above the honeyed hokum of a story, directed by Tate Taylor from the Kathryn Stockett novel, about the separate, unequal lives of black maids and white employers in early 1960s Mississippi. (Dargis)
- 'Higher Ground' (R, 1:49) Vera Farmiga, in her first effort as a director, plays Corinne, who as a young mother finds her way into an evangelical Christian sect that is both nurturing and confining. Based on a memoir by Carolyn S. Briggs (who collaborated on the screenplay with Tim Metcalfe), this is a rare film that explores the complexities of religious faith without condescension or timid piety. (Scott)
'Horrible Bosses' (R, 1:40) Not actually horrible at all, thanks largely to the timing and ingenuity of the cast. Two funny Jasons -- Bateman and Sudeikis -- team up with Charlie Day to form a trio of put-upon workers ineptly seeking revenge. Kevin Spacey, Colin Farrell and Jennifer Aniston are the bosses, and Jamie Foxx is a consultant whose name, like much else in the movie, is an obvious, borderline offensive, unprintable and pretty funny joke. (Scott)
'I Don't Know How She Does It' (PG-13, 1:35) The curse of Carrie Bradshaw infects this film with a severe case of what might be called post-Carrie Parkeritis. Parkeritis, if you hadn't heard, is the name given to a new ailment named after Sarah Jessica Parker, in which a star finds herself condemned to eke out the last drops of freshness from a role (in this case, from ''Sex and the City'') that made her world-famous eons ago. (Holden)
'Laugh at My Pain' (No rating, 1:28) A concert film of Kevin Hart's recent comedy tour. The stand-up material isn't his best, but that is bracketed by a funny, self-deprecating visit to his home turf, Philadelphia, and a nutty bank-heist skit. (Genzlinger)
'Love Crime' (No rating, 1:46, in French and English) Alain Corneau's last film is a nasty study in female rivalry and corporate office politics. Ludivine Sagnier is a shy but ambitious young executive in thrall to and at the mercy of her glamorous, ruthless boss, played by Kristin Scott Thomas. But halfway through, as their relationship descends from undermining and humiliation into violence, the film switches gears and becomes a crime procedural, which is nowhere near as interesting as they psychosexual melodrama it had seemed to be. (Scott)
- 'Midnight in Paris' (PG-13, 1:34) This slight, elegant sketch from Woody Allen finds the perfect balance of whimsy and wisdom as it contemplates the charms and traps of cultural nostalgia. Owen Wilson is a writer on a visit to Paris who is swept back to an earlier era in that city's glory. Marion Cotillard is the woman he meets there, Rachel McAdams is his present-day fiancee, and Kathy Bates is Gertrude Stein. The large cast also includes Adrien Brody, Michael Sheen and Carla Bruni, the first lady of France, playing a museum tour guide. (Scott)
- 'The Mill and the Cross' (No rating, 1:32) Directed by the Polish filmmaker Lech Majewski, this lush and hypnotic examination of the 1564 Bruegel masterpiece ''Way to Calvary'' has ambitions as sweeping as the vast canvas that Bruegel filled so spectacularly. In this layered blending of live actors, including Rutger Hauer and Michael York, with special effects, painted backdrops and location shots, Mr. Majewski turns a playful and inventive look at a great work of art into a meditation on the creative process itself. (Daniel M. Gold)
'My Afternoons With Margueritte' (No rating, 1:22, in French) Gerard Depardieu plays a working lug who meets an older woman (Gisele Casadesus, now 97). She reads to him. He blossoms. Mr. Depardieu and Ms. Casadesus have some sweet scenes, but this sentimental, sometimes dreary film, directed by Jean Becker, rarely rises above the pedestrian. (Rachel Saltz)
'One Day' (PG-13, 1:47) The director Lone Scherfig (''An Education'') chronicles the not-quite courtship of an almost-couple -- Anne Hathaway and Jim Sturgess -- who meet as university students on July 15, 1988, and are revisited on that date in subsequent years, as they make their way through careers, relationships and other challenges. The story, based on a novel by David Nicholls, ultimately plunges into maudlin nonsense, but along the way there are some very fine moments, thanks to Ms. Scherfig's offbeat pacing and the work of a supporting cast that includes Romola Garai, Patricia Clarkson and Rafe Spall. (Scott)
'Our Idiot Brother' (R, 1:30) Paul Rudd is Ned, the title character and saving grace of Jesse Peretz's modern family comedy, which tries, half-heartedly, to avoid some of the cliches of the genre. Zooey Deschanel, Emily Mortimer and Elizabeth Banks are Ned's sisters, who turn out to need his genial, slacker attitude more than he needs their anxiety, insecurity or ambition. (Scott)
'Restless' (PG-13, 1:31) Mia Wasikowska is a lovely girl dying of cancer, and Henry Hopper is the morose young man who falls for her in this dreamy, pretty, ultimately unconvincing film by Gus Van Sant. (Scott)
'Rise of the Planet of the Apes' (PG-13, 1:45) An amusingly cheerful film about the end of humanity that's PETA- and critic-approved -- no animals were harmed in its making, and neither was James Franco's career -- this new ''Apes'' is an origin story and a kick in the franchise pants. Rupert Wyatt directed. (Dargis)
'Sarah's Key' (PG-13, 1:51, in French and English) A Holocaust story and a present-day tale about a journalist (Kristin Scott Thomas) intertwine to little effect. The horrors of the past leave an impression, but the journalist's problems seem small and make the film feel sentimental. (Saltz)
'Senna' (PG-13, 1:45) This documentary biography of the Brazilian race-car driver Ayrton Senna, a three-time Formula One world champion, virtually puts you in the lap of its subject as he hurtles like a speeding bullet along the world's fastest tracks. The film is a discreet hagiography of Senna, who was only 34 when he died in a 1994 crash, and a compressed, esoteric slice of Formula One history during his 10-year ascendance. (Holden)
'Shark Night 3-D' (PG-13, 1:31) This disappointing entry in the bobbing-and-bloodbath category features the usual bunch of attractive college kids working a setup -- a Louisiana cabin, a suspiciously shark-stocked lake -- as minimal as their wardrobe. Testing the limits of PG-13 with the usual lecherous rednecks and wet bikinis, the director, David R. Ellis, struggles to make the transition from ''Snakes on a Plane'' to teeth in the water. (Catsoulis)
- 'Shut Up Little Man! An Audio Misadventure' (No rating, 1:25) This fascinating documentary by Matthew Bate tells the strange story of two young men who, back in the 1980s, tape-recorded the epic arguments of their neighbors. The tapes became an underground sensation before the Internet made that kind of flash fame easy. Mr. Bate deftly recreates how the phenomenon came about and explores what it says about fame and the inner voyeur in all of us. (Genzlinger)
'The Smurfs' (PG, 1:43) The blue blobs familiar from the 1980s television show make a smooth transition into the 21st century in this 3-D, half-animated film, which is spunkier and less irritating than you might expect. A half-dozen Smurfs are sucked through a wormhole and into New York City, pursued by an evil wizard. Hank Azaria is quite amusing in that role, and some funny grown-up jokes keep things interesting for the parents in the crowd. (Genzlinger)
'Straw Dogs' (R, 1:50) To celebrate the 40th anniversary of Sam Peckinpah's endlessly provocative fable of violence and revenge, Rod Lurie has remade it, shifting the action to Mississippi from Cornwall, England, and turning the mathematician hero (originally played by Dustin Hoffman) into a screenwriter (played by James Marsden). Mr. Lurie's version is broad, pulpy and perhaps pointless, but nonetheless interesting both as a culture-war allegory and as a commentary on the earlier film. (Scott)
- 'Tabloid' (R, 1:27) Errol Morris's latest documentary is a brain-teasing potboiler consisting mainly of the first-person testimony of Joyce McKinney, who achieved notoriety in Britain in the '70s for her part in what was known in the press as the Case of the Manacled Mormon. A character in every sense of the word, she is also a highly entertaining, perhaps not entirely reliable guide into a world of sex, sensationalism and (implicit) philosophical speculation on the nature of truth. (Scott)
'There Was Once ...' (No rating, 1:43, in English and Hungarian) Kalocsa, Hungary, once had a thriving Jewish population. No more. A scholar tracks down the diaspora of her town in a tale told with little flash, drama or narrative texture. Still, the film is a worthy record of a history slipping away from us. (David DeWitt)
'3D Sex and Zen: Extreme Ecstasy' (No rating, 2:09, in Cantonese) There's a lot of tedious (and often violent) soft-core sex in this Cantonese-language porno-historical fantasy, but virtually no ecstasy. (Hale)
- '3' ('Drei') (No rating, 1:59, in German) This forbiddingly sober and sophisticated comedy of adultery and sexual experimentation by the German director of ''Run Lola Run'' and ''The International'' replaces the customary post-Freudian model of relationships and sexuality with a cooler, more speculative scientific view. (Holden)
- 'The Tree of Life' (PG-13, 2:18) Terrence Malick's new film -- his fifth in 38 years, crowned with the top prize at Cannes -- engages some big, heady questions about life, God and the universe, scrolling back to the creation of everything and forward to the end of time. At the center, though, is the tender, lyrical and precisely observed chronicle of an ordinary family in postwar Texas. Brad Pitt and Jessica Chastain beautifully convey the strains and graces of a marriage, and Hunter McCracken as their oldest son, Jack, takes us inside the soul of a young man grappling with the everyday mysteries of his own existence. (Scott)
- 'Warrior' (PG-13, 2:19) Two estranged brothers (Joel Edgerton and Tom Hardy) face off in a mixed-martial arts showdown in this violent, stirring tale of family dysfunction and brutal redemption. The director, Gavin O'Connor, embraces the conventions -- you might say cliches -- of the boxing melodrama with such confidence and conviction that you can't help but be caught up in the film's big emotions, or moved by its depiction of an American working class buckling under the twin calamities of war and recession. (Scott)
- 'We Were Here' (No rating, 1:30) This documentary film about San Francisco caregivers at the height of the AIDS crisis is above all a film about love: not romantic love but the kind that really matters, in which people selflessly show up and keep on showing up for one another in the worst of times. (Holden)
Film Series
'The Complete Vincente Minnelli' (Friday through Thursday) Because he spent almost all of his career working for a single studio, MGM, that made an early commitment to film preservation, Minnelli is one of the few American directors for whom a complete retrospective is possible. This major series, presented in conjunction with the Locarno film festival in Switzerland, offers all of Minnelli's feature films, beginning on Friday with the 1943 ''Cabin in the Sky'' and concluding on Nov. 2 with the 1954 ''Brigadoon.'' One of the great Hollywood masters of color and decor, Minnelli made musicals that felt like melodramas (the wrenching ''Meet Me in St. Louis,'' screening on Oct. 1) and melodramas that felt like musicals (the stylized ''Some Came Running,'' screening on Oct. 2, followed by a discussion with the Minnelli biographer Emanuel Levy). The program includes two crucial non-MGM rarities, ''On a Clear Day You Can See Forever,'' made for Paramount in 1970 (Oct. 24), and the director's final film, ''A Matter of Time,'' released by American International Pictures in 1976. (A discussion with the Minnelli scholar Joe McElhaney will follow the 6:50 p.m. screening on Oct. 25.) All films will be presented in 35 millimeter. BAMcinematek, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100, bam.org; $12. (Dave Kehr)
Gus Van Sant (Friday through Sunday) A three-week retrospective devoted to this shape-shifting filmmaker continues with ''To Die For'' on Friday; ''Gerry'' and ''Elephant'' on Saturday; ''Psycho'' and ''Last Days'' on Sunday; and ''Milk'' as the concluding film next Friday. Museum of the Moving Image, 35th Avenue at 37th Street, Astoria, Queens, (718) 784-0077, movingimage.us; $12. (Kehr)
Roman Polanski (Friday through Thursday) With a new film, ''Carnage,'' set to open this fall, the moment is ripe for a retrospective of this Polish director's large body of work. Mr. Polanski, alas, will not be present to introduce these films, including ''Cul-de-Sac,'' ''The Fearless Vampire Killers, or: Pardon Me, but Your Teeth Are in My Neck'' and ''Rosemary's Baby'' on Friday; ''Macbeth'' and ''Che?'' on Saturday; ''Chinatown'' and ''The Tenant'' on Sunday; ''Pirates'' and ''Frantic'' on Monday; ''Bitter Moon'' and ''Death and the Maiden'' on Wednesday; and ''The Ninth Gate'' on Thursday. The series ends next Friday. Museum of Modern Art Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, 11 West 53rd Street, (212) 708-9400, moma.org; $12. (Kehr)
'Yeonghwa: Korean Film Today' (Friday through Thursday) Nine new features from one of the most vibrant film industries in Asia, as well as a selection of shorts and two restored films by the 1960s genre director Lee Man-hee, make up this new edition of the annual program presented by the Korea Society. The series begins with ''Rolling Home With a Bull'' (Friday at 4:30 p.m.), the newest film by Korea's foremost female director, Yim Soon-rye. It's a comedy that suggests Buster Keaton's ''Go West,'' about a misfit poet who travels across the country trying to sell his father's prize bull. Other highlights include ''Hanji,'' the 101st feature directed by the venerable Im Kwon-taek (''Chihwaseon''), centered on traditional Korean paper-making methods (Sunday at 2 p.m. and Monday at 7:45 p.m.); the popular comedy ''Hello Ghost,'' directed by Kim Young-tak (Friday at 7:45 p.m. and Saturday at 1:30 p.m.); and Jeon Kyu-hwan's ''Town Trilogy,'' three films about the hardships of life in Seoul, shown in various permutation beginning Thursday at 4:30 p.m. Museum of Modern Art Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, 11 West 53rd Street, (212) 708-9400, moma.org; $12. (Kehr)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 'YEONGHWA: KOREAN FILM TODAY': (Friday through Thursday) Nine new features from one of the most vibrant film industries in Asia, as well as a selection of shorts and two restored films by the 1960s genre director Lee Man-hee, make up this new edition of the annual program presented by the Korea Society. The series begins with ''Rolling Home With a Bull'' (Friday at 4:30 p.m.), the newest film by Korea's foremost female director, Yim Soon-rye. This comedy, above, suggests Buster Keaton's ''Go West,'' about a misfit poet who travels across the country trying to sell his father's prize bull. Other highlights include ''Hanji,'' the 101st feature directed by the venerable Im Kwon-taek (''Chihwaseon''), centered on traditional Korean paper-making methods (Sunday at 2 p.m. and Monday at 7:45 p.m.). Museum of Modern Art Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, (212) 708-9400, moma.org
 $12. (Dave Kehr) (PHOTGORAPH BY M LINE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); HISTORY (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); ART HISTORY (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); MOVIE FILMING (79%); MOVIE RATINGS (79%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); FILM DIRECTORS (79%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (79%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); FASHION & APPAREL (74%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (74%); RELIGION (74%); WORLD WAR II (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (65%) NEW YORK, USA (77%) NORTHERN ASIA (91%); ASIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (77%); LEBANON (72%); SWEDEN (69%); IRAN (65%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011



994 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: A Strategic Risk In the Fed's Plan

BYLINE: By EDWARD HADAS AND AGNES T. CRANE

 BODY:
Financial markets are tiring of the Federal Reserve's love offerings. The central bank has long been able to soothe nervous investors with rate cuts or newly printed money. But markets on Thursday spurned the announcement of the Twist, an operation to lengthen the maturity of $400 billion of the Fed's $1.7 trillion Treasury holdings.
Stocks fell sharply and the price of bonds from governments still considered safe rose. Investors were right not to be impressed. The Twist is aimed primarily at the American housing market. But even if the Fed's rearrangement lowers mortgage costs, house prices will be held back by a weak economy and the huge oversupply left from the bubble years. 
Tight monetary policy has long ceased to stand in the way of economic growth. Official real interest rates are solidly negative almost everywhere. The Twist could even impede lending -- and growth -- by narrowing the gap between short and long term rates. Banks, after all, gain from a steep yield curve.
Central banks could try to regain the favor of investors with yet more monetary love. The Bank of England dropped some not-so-subtle hints this week about another round of quantitative easing. In the United States, some are calling for QE3. But no amount of money, whether from fiscal transfers, QE3 or QE33, can force banks to lend or consumers to borrow and spend.
More money will not push up the prices of financial assets that investors deem too risky. The Asian market rout is caused in part by fund managers trying to get ahead of an expected wave of redemptions from cross-border investors.
But while the gains from monetary stimulus are small, the potential harm is significant. The Fed and its peers are creating piles of money that could be put in and taken out of different assets in disruptive quantities and at dizzying speeds.
In the current economic environment, the twists and turns of monetary policy will not reduce unemployment or rebalance trade. It would be better for the world if central banks stopped trying.
A Debt of Gratitude
United Technologies is catching a break from lenders. The 47 percent premium built into the $16.5 billion it is paying for shares of Goodrich, an aerospace specialist, makes the price look overly generous, especially amid gloomy stock markets. But cheap debt should make the deal easier to swallow.
The company indicated hoped-for annual synergies of up to $400 million. Taxed, put on a multiple of 10 and offset by the expected $500 million of one-off costs, these are worth less than $2 billion after adjusting for the five-year delay before they materialize in full. That's only a little more than a third of the premium United Technologies is paying over the undisturbed price of Goodrich.
Goodrich's allure, however, goes beyond cost savings. Among other aerospace interests, United Technologies owns Pratt & Whitney engines. As with the classic example of computer printers, the big profit in this kind of business comes from the aftermarket, and 43 percent of Goodrich's revenue comes from service calls, giving United Technologies a new source of potential growth.
And on another financial measure, the deal doesn't look so dear. Goodrich is expected to make operating profit of $1.6 billion in 2013, according to analysts' estimates compiled by Thomson Reuters. Suppose $300 million of cost cuts are in place by then, and within a couple of years United Technologies will be collecting a pretax 10 percent return on its total investment, including assumed debt.
The deal might have been more attractive but for the news media uncovering the company's hunt for financing. Then again, the timing is still good for the Connecticut-based conglomerate to borrow three-quarters of the needed cash. Investors are hungry for relatively safe blue-chip industrial credits. Throw in ultra-low Treasury yields, and borrowing is cheap. United Technologies' existing 30-year debt yields only around 4.4 percent.
The $15 billion of new borrowing shouldn't damage the company's credit ratings, either, thanks to a conservative capital structure -- though it will be issuing new stock and curtailing buybacks. Even offering debt investors a bit extra, it's hard to see the company paying more than 5 percent. For United Technologies' shareholders, that should mitigate the initial sticker shock.
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Louis Chenevert of United Technologies will pay $16.5 billion for Goodrich stock. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTINNE MUSCHI/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (75%); HOUSING BUBBLE (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); YIELD CURVE (71%)

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (55%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (52%)

TICKER: UTX (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: LOUIS CHENEVERT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011



995 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: Crime Rises in Oakland, And Dim Lights Get Blame

BYLINE: By SHOSHANA WALTER. 
swalter@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
By day, True Vine Ministries on Isabella Street in West Oakland serves as a center for Bible study and worship.
By night, the exterior of the pale pink building serves as a backdrop to prostitution and drug dealing that has been allowed to flourish, according to the pastor, Zachary E. Carey, beneath excessively dim streetlights. 
After the California Legislature enacted new energy-efficient lighting standards in 2002, many cities followed suit. Among them was Oakland, which imposed restrictions on its 37,000 streetlights.
The ordinance required the city to begin using energy-efficient bulbs, ''cap'' new lampposts to prevent light from flooding into the sky and maintain lower levels of light to prevent waste and glare, among other measures.
But Oakland residents are reeling from a crime spike -- as of Thursday afternoon, there were 85 homicides so far this year, up 25 percent from the comparable period last year. And Mr. Carey and his supporters have decided to fight for an exemption to the standards in the flatlands of East and West Oakland, where they claim the star-friendly policy has contributed to the city's crime problem.
''It's real easy to hide when it's dark everywhere,'' Mr. Carey said. ''How do you prevent crime when people know you can't see them?''
Research has long shown a correlation between street lighting and crime. Brandon Welsh, a criminology professor at Northeastern University, said streetlights acted as ''natural surveillance'' and could reduce crime by 20 percent as well as give residents a sense of pride and ownership over their neighborhood.
Before budget cuts in 2007, Oakland police and city officials requested temporary lighting increases in crime hot spots. Howard Jordan, the city's assistant police chief, said permanent increases could help reduce crime.
''Most of these crooks, when they commit a crime, want to do it in darkness,'' Mr. Jordan said.
But there is an economic incentive to keeping lights low, as many cities have identified outdoor lighting as a drain on budgets. Santa Rosa, for example, has saved about $400,000 a year since it began removing some streetlights and putting timers on others. Oakland is facing a $76 million budget deficit next year, and public works officials say the city cannot afford to go brighter.
''The city is not funded to handle that kind of thing.'' said Dan Clanton, an electrical supervisor.
Astronomers at the city's prized Chabot Space & Science Center, in the Oakland hills, say reduced light pollution affords better views of the night skies. ''Three or four years ago, you could see stars that are twice as dim as the ones we can see today,'' said Gerald McKeegan, an observatory operator.
Nevertheless, Mr. Carey has mobilized his group, Soldiers Against Violence Everywhere, a community organization working to stop homicides. Their plan has the support of two City Council members, Desley Brooks and Larry Reid, and Mr. Carey said he had urged hundreds of residents to call the Public Works Agency and to keep watch in their neighborhoods.
But first, he said, there needs to be more light.
''You can't see their faces,'' Mr. Carey said of the criminals, ''so you can't tell on them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Some Oakland residents say dimmer streetlights abet crime. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADITHYA SAMBAMURTHY/THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (90%); CRIME RATES (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CRIME PREVENTION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (86%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (78%); ORDINANCES (76%); POLICE FORCES (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (72%); LIGHT POLLUTION (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); CITIES (71%); HOMICIDE (69%); BUDGET CUTS (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (63%); ARMED FORCES (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011



996 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: May the Best Recipe Win (but Don't Forget the Chicken and Mayo)

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
WITH tough economic times making Americans choosier about what they stock in their pantries, Hellmann's is aiming to convince consumers that mayonnaise is a staple cooking ingredient and not just a sandwich spread.
In a new marketing push, Hellmann's is holding a reality show-like contest to promote new chicken recipes that incorporate mayonnaise. The hope is that one of the recipes will become as popular as a longtime favorite of home cooks -- Parmesan-crusted chicken. That dish involves only four steps and four ingredients, including Hellmann's, making it hard to beat for ease and convenience.
But Hellmann's, the top seller in the more than $1 billion market for mayonnaise, is trying. Its new ''Chicken Challenge'' campaign features two culinary celebrities who cook new recipes with chicken and mayonnaise each week on the Hellmann's Web site. After watching the cook-off, which is hosted by the actor and television personality Mark Consuelos, consumers are encouraged to try the recipes at home, then vote for their favorite on the Web site or on the Hellmann's Facebook page. 
''We're talking about Hellmann's versatility, and looking, through consumer feedback, to have a better understanding of feeding families,'' Brian Orlando, senior marketing director for Hellmann's in the United States, said about the campaign.
''We're also trying to break up some of the monotony of every-night dinners,'' he added, ''and help consumers who are looking for added value and a culinary experience. Hellmann's is the secret ingredient for chicken that's juicy, not dry.''
In the chicken challenge, Tim Love, a celebrity chef from Texas, and Sissy Biggers, a former Food Network host, cook their dishes in the same kitchen while bantering about themselves and their families. In one video, Mr. Love whips up barbecue chicken nuggets while Ms. Biggers puts together honey mustard chicken fingers.
''We borrowed from chef reality shows to move beyond recipes on the jar or on the Web site,'' said Doug Scott, president of Ogilvy Entertainment, which created the videos. Ogilvy Entertainment is a division of Hellmann's advertising agency, Ogilvy & Mather, a unit of WPP Group.
''Now is an opportune window to get people involved,'' he added, ''because summer is over, moms are in the kitchen and looking for something different than the routine.''
This is the first time, he said, that Hellmann's marketing had ''used a full-out, 360-degree approach using digital, social media and other components'' to get its message to consumers.
Hellmann's, which posts the new chicken recipes on hellmanns.us each week, is not abandoning its sandwich-making audience, added Mr. Orlando. But it is aiming at awareness of the multiple uses of the mayonnaise already in the refrigerator.
The brand also is building marketing plans for Thanksgiving. The company will switch to recipes with turkey (and mayonnaise) after the first eight weeks of the chicken campaign, to suggest meals beyond the ever popular postholiday turkey sandwich.
In advance of the digital campaign, Hellmann's, which is a Unilever brand and known as Best Foods in Western states, introduced a television commercial. The 30-second advertisement, with the tagline ''Make it Real. Make it Different,'' features a mother cheerfully cooking up and serving Parmesan-crusted chicken to two children. The ad, by Ogilvy & Mather, is running on daytime and evening network shows.
That commercial and a 15-second version of it are meant to build brand awareness, said Mr. Scott. They do not make reference to the digital campaign. Print ads showing Parmesan-crusted chicken will run in magazines that focus on entertainment, women, shelter and food.
As part of its ''Chicken Challenge,'' Hellmann's said some cooking demonstrations will be shown on ABC's daytime talk show, ''The View.'' Hellmann's also is teaming up with influential mom and food bloggers to pass along its message to consumers.
Hellmann's highlighted the ''real'' ingredients in its mayonnaise with a Web video series called ''In Search of Real Food'' on Yahoo four years ago. It later switched to marketing mayonnaise as the indispensable accompaniment for sandwiches. Now, with consumers increasingly budget conscious, Hellmann's is underscoring mayonnaise's multiple uses.
Hellmann's, whose rivals are Kraft's mayonnaise and Miracle Whip, did not disclose the cost of its current campaign. In the first six months of this year, Kantar Media, part of WPP, said the brand spent $15 million on advertising. That was down from the nearly $22 million it spent in the same time period in 2010, but Mr. Orlando indicated that Hellmann's would be directing more advertising dollars to the ''Chicken Challenge'' campaign.
Mindshare, an agency in the GroupM media services unit of WPP, is handling the placement of the cook-off videos online, putting them on YouTube and Facebook, the popular group blog BlogHer, gaming sites like Wild Tangent, and lifestyle sites including Food Network, SheKnows and Allrecipes. Ryan Partnership, of Wilton, Conn., is handling the digital aspects of the campaign, including a mobile version of the Web site.
Aside from the digital aspects, Hellmann's is also addressing shoppers directly in the grocery store by working with the National Chicken Council to market the campaign on chicken packaging. Every year, the council tallies how many pounds of poultry Americans consume.
Last year, each person ate 85 pounds of chicken, according to the council. Richard Lobb, a spokesman for the group, said that in its most recent survey, in June, consumers said they ate chicken -- anything from the ubiquitous nugget to the elegant chicken cordon bleu -- in a snack or meal nearly three times a week.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tim Love, a celebrity chef from Texas, and Sissy Biggers, a former Food Network host, cook new recipes with chicken and mayonnaise each week on the Hellmann's Web site. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ORIGINAL MEDIA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COOKING & ENTERTAINING (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); WEB SITES (88%); POULTRY (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); REALITY TELEVISION (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); SOCIAL MEDIA (73%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (73%); FILM (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%)

COMPANY: OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (58%); WPP PLC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: WPPGY (NASDAQ) (58%); WPP (LSE) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011



997 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: In Europe, a Chorus of Outrage Over a U.S. Execution

BYLINE: By SCOTT SAYARE; Nicholas Kulish contributed reporting from Berlin, and Ravi Somaiya from London.

 BODY:
PARIS -- Even in a region long disdainful of American attitudes toward the death penalty, public officials, editorial writers and activists across Western Europe reacted with fury on Thursday to news that Troy Davis was executed in Georgia on Wednesday night.
Despite the divisive sovereign debt crisis, the sagging economy and conflict in the Middle East, the news media in Britain, France and elsewhere devoted continuous coverage to the Davis case this week, emphasizing that Mr. Davis, a black man, had been convicted of killing a white police officer in a Southern state. Many commentators denounced American justice as brutal and flawed. 
More than anything, however, the outcry underlined the profound divergence in opinion concerning capital punishment in the United States and Western Europe, where the death penalty is no longer a topic of debate.
''The United States are a very democratic country, but these are barbaric practices,'' said Laurent Fabius, a prominent Socialist lawmaker and former French prime minister, speaking on Europe 1 radio.
Robert Badinter, who as justice minister oversaw the abolition of the death penalty in France in 1981, called Mr. Davis's execution a ''defeat for humanity.''
''This affair will remain as a stain on the justice system of the United States,'' Mr. Badinter said.
Convicted of the 1989 killing of a Savannah, Ga., police officer, Mr. Davis, 42, maintained his innocence until the end. He was put to death by lethal injection after the Supreme Court declined to act on a petition from his lawyers to stay the execution.
Although other American death penalty cases have attracted world attention in recent decades, Mr. Davis's case provoked particular interest, said Richard Dieter, executive director of the Death Penalty Information Center, a nonprofit group in Washington. In part, he said, the outrage reflected Amnesty International's decision to publicize the case several years ago.
Hundreds of protesters had gathered outside the American Embassies in London and Paris on Wednesday to call for a stay of execution. The European Union had repeatedly urged the same, given what Catherine Ashton, the bloc's foreign policy chief, called the ''serious and compelling doubts'' about Mr. Davis's guilt.
''The E.U. opposes the use of capital punishment in all cases and under all circumstances, and calls for a global moratorium as a first step towards its universal abolition,'' Ms. Ashton said in a statement.
In Germany, Claudia Roth, a leader of the Green Party, said Mr. Davis's death was ''a cynical and inhumane spectacle that occasions mourning and horror.'' Tom Chivers, an editor at The Daily Telegraph in Britain, called capital punishment a ''barbaric hangover from an Old Testament morality.'' Even Americans who support it, he wrote, must ''want it to be credible -- a terrible judgment passed down upon the guilty, not a savage lottery of murder.''
With passage in 2000 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, capital punishment was abolished across the European Union. Germany had ended the practice in 1949, Britain in 1969 and France in 1981. Those decisions were far from universally popular at the time, but a wide-ranging consensus has since emerged that capital punishment is a backward and unjust practice, analysts say. Still, a handful of politicians on the fringes of the right still call for a debate over executions.
Doing away with the death penalty is ''seen as an established norm of modern society,'' said Nicole Bacharan, a French historian and political scientist at the Institute for Political Studies in Paris. Most of the French have come to consider capital punishment as a moral question, Ms. Bacharan said -- and one with an unequivocal answer.
It puzzles many Europeans, then, that capital punishment persists in 34 of the 50 American states.
''They don't understand that Americans believe you can lose your right to life,'' said Andrew Hammel, a former Texas defense lawyer who is now an assistant professor at Heinrich Heine University in Dusseldorf, Germany.
The deep cultural influence of the Roman Catholic Church has imbued many Europeans with a belief in ''unconditional human dignity,'' Mr. Hammel said, a belief that the state ''must respect human beings whatever they've done.'' The Protestant tradition of the United States, by contrast, emphasizes individual responsibility, he said.
In further contrast with the United States, most European judicial systems rely on jurists who are appointed rather than elected. Activists working to abolish the death penalty in the United States often suggest that political considerations affect the thinking of judges and prosecutors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (92%); WRITERS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); HOMICIDE (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); CAPITAL CRIMES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); LAWYERS (72%); DEBT CRISIS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (67%); PETITIONS (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (62%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%)

PERSON: BARONESS ASHTON OF UPHOLLAND (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (78%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%) GEORGIA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (96%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011



998 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: Strike at Boathouse Restaurant in Central Park Is Settled

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
The bitter, boisterous 44-day strike at the Boathouse Restaurant in Central Park ended on Thursday as the two sides announced that they had agreed to a four-year union contract. 
New York City's main union representing hotel and restaurant workers, the New York Hotel Trades Council, said the contract was a significant victory because the restaurant's owner had fiercely battled a unionization effort for months.
The settlement was announced by the union; Dean Poll, the restaurant's owner; and the city's deputy mayor for economic development, Robert K. Steel, who played a major role in pushing the two sides to settle.
Mr. Poll had threatened to close the Boathouse and lay off its 170 employees if the union continued to insist on what he said were extravagant demands.
Mr. Steel said, ''The Boathouse is a one-of-a-kind destination for New Yorkers and visitors, and throughout this process, we were committed to its continued success for years to come.''
Peter Ward, the union's president, expressed delight that the strike was over, adding, ''We are equally happy to say that our union and the Boathouse employees accomplished our goals.''
Employees voted unanimously on Thursday afternoon to ratify the contract, which includes vacations, sick days and a clause to have arbitrators hear disputes about firings and other matters. It also has family health and dental coverage, and that coverage will apply to domestic partners.
Under the agreement, about one-third of the employees who do not receive tips, including dishwashers, will have their pay increased immediately to $13.50 an hour, from $7.50.
The contract also provides for overtime for cooks and gives scheduling priority to workers with more seniority.
Two officials involved in the negotiations said Mr. Poll had asked the Bloomberg administration to reduce the Boathouse's rent by more than $1 million a year because a union contract might make it unprofitable.
In a statement that the city, the union and the restaurant issued on Thursday, the city hinted that it might consider revamping the agreement with the Boathouse to ensure its ''continued vitality for both the city and its operator in light of these changed circumstances.''
Mr. Poll agreed to make significant concessions, like rehiring more than 20 workers, after the National Labor Relations Board told him that it was prepared to file a far-reaching legal complaint accusing the Boathouse of illegally threatening and questioning workers, as well as illegally firing and otherwise punishing more than 15 workers for supporting the union.
The labor board had also told Mr. Poll that it planned to seek a judicial order to require the Boathouse to grant union recognition and enter contract talks, even though no vote has been held to determine whether the restaurant's workers wanted to unionize. Mr. Ward said that 70 percent of the employees had signed cards last winter backing a union.
The dispute had become intertwined with the union's battle with Mr. Poll over a license he won to run Tavern on the Green, another restaurant in Central Park. Mr. Poll never reopened Tavern after failing to reach a contract with Mr. Ward's union, which represented the 400 Tavern workers under the previous licensee, Warner LeRoy.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); STRIKES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (88%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (77%); HOTEL STAFF (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); OVERTIME (77%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); DENTAL INSURANCE (64%)

ORGANIZATION: HOTEL & RESTAURANT WORKERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011



999 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: Citing Weak Global Growth, FedEx Cuts Its Profit Outlook

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
FedEx cut its full-year profit outlook on Thursday, citing fuel prices and weak global economic growth, sending its shares down 8 percent.
Frederick W. Smith, the chief executive, said he did not expect economic conditions to improve much any time soon, although he did not expect the United States to dip back into recession. 
''We expect sluggish economic growth will continue, largely due to a lack of confidence that U.S. and European policy makers will effectively address current economic challenges,'' Mr. Smith said in a conference call to discuss quarterly results.
With inventories low, FedEx expects to benefit if there is an uptick in demand in the run-up to the holiday shopping season and retailers need fast delivery. Much is also riding on robust online orders. But for now, things remain subdued.
The sheer volume of goods moved by FedEx makes its shipment trends a bellwether for consumer demand and economic growth. The value of packages handled by FedEx's trucks and planes every year is equivalent to about 4 percent of United States gross domestic product and 1.5 percent of global G.D.P.
The company so far has had little resistance to rate increases, the latest of which went into effect this month.
FedEx reiterated its $4.2 billion capital expenditure plan for the year ending next May. The company is considering buying about 50 wide-body freighters from Boeing and Airbus to update its fleet to more fuel-efficient models.
FedEx said fiscal first-quarter profit, which slightly beat forecasts, rose to $464 million, or $1.46 a share, from $380 million, or $1.20 a share, in the period a year ago. Analysts, on average, had expected a profit of $1.45 a share, according to Thomson Reuters.
The company cut its forecast for earnings for the year to May 2012 to $6.25 to $6.75 a share from its June estimate of $6.35 to $6.85.
Revenue rose 11 percent, to $10.52 billion, from $9.46 billion a year earlier. That was above the average forecast of $10.32 billion.
Shares of FedEx fell $5.92, or 8.2 percent, to $66.58..
With the stock down about 30 percent this year, FedEx said it planned to buy back 5.7 million shares under its existing repurchase authorization.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); TRENDS (78%); RECESSION (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); RETAILERS (74%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (55%)

COMPANY: FEDEX CORP (94%); AIRBUS SAS (57%); BOEING CO (55%)

TICKER: FDX (NYSE) (94%); BOE (LSE) (55%); BAB (BRU) (55%); BA (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (94%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (94%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (94%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (57%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (55%)

PERSON: FREDERICK W SMITH (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011



1000 of 1347 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Obama Takes Jobs Fight To His Adversaries' Turf

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
CINCINNATI -- President Obama was back on the road on Thursday to sell his jobs plan -- at an aging and overtaxed bridge connecting the home states of his chief Republican antagonists in Congress, Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio and Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Senate minority leader.
''Now that's just a coincidence -- purely accidental,'' Mr. Obama said to the laughter of an estimated 1,500 people watching him speak against the camera-ready backdrop of the 50-year-old Brent Spence Bridge over the Ohio River, which is slated to be rebuilt, but not before 2015. 
''But part of the reason I came here is because Mr. Boehner and Mr. McConnell, those are the two most powerful Republicans in government,'' Mr. Obama said. ''They can either kill this jobs bill, or they can help pass this jobs bill.'' The crowd responded with repeated chants of ''Pass that bill!'' and boos at the mention of the Republicans' names.
This was Mr. Obama's fourth trip outside Washington since announcing his $447 billion stimulus package of tax cuts, state aid and infrastructure financing two weeks ago. By taking the battle to his chief adversaries' turf, the president dramatized more than ever a new, more confrontational approach to Congressional Republicans that makes good on his months-old warning to take his case to the country if they continued to obstruct him.
What is unclear is whether the new aggressiveness will work for Mr. Obama -- either in legislative success or in political credit.
Both Republican leaders, but especially Mr. McConnell, delivered barbed retorts at the Capitol even before Mr. Obama arrived here. While Republicans have expressed openness to some tax cuts and infrastructure initiatives, they mostly have derided Mr. Obama's plan and adamantly oppose the tax increases for the wealthy that he has proposed for after 2012 to offset the jobs measure's cost and to reduce future budget deficits.
Mr. McConnell spoke on the Senate floor as if speaking to Mr. Obama. ''Don't patronize us by implying that if we just pass this second stimulus that bridges will be fixed right away,'' he said.
Get back to Washington, Mr. McConnell said, adding, ''and forget the political theater.''
Similarly, Mr. Boehner said at a Capitol news conference, ''Now is not the time for the president to go into campaign mode.''
In keeping with Republicans' emphasis on ending federal regulations to fix the feeble economy, Mr. Boehner released a letter to Mr. Obama from the two Republicans representing Congressional districts near the bridge, urging the president to support a bill to block regulations on cement manufacturers.
A few Democrats have balked at the tax increases in Mr. Obama's plan as well. And while the president has made ''Pass this bill'' a mantra, the Democratic majority leader of the Senate, Harry Reid of Nevada, has declined to schedule action on the jobs plan ahead of other pending legislation. That did not stop Mr. Obama from enlisting his enthusiastic audience to light a fire under Congress.
''There is work to be done and there are workers ready to do it,'' Mr. Obama, coatless and sleeves rolled, nearly yelled. Underscoring the campaign-like nature of the event, when he urged them, ''tell Congress to pass this jobs bill right away!'' some in the crowd -- construction workers, union members and employees of the concrete company where he spoke -- chanted his 2008 slogan, ''Yes, we can!''
While administration officials have taken issue with Republicans' criticism that Mr. Obama is waging ''class warfare'' by proposing to raise taxes on the wealthy, the president virtually embraced the term.
''I'm a warrior for the middle class,'' he said. ''I'm happy to fight for the middle class. I'm happy to fight for working Americans.''
Mr. Obama described the Brent Spence Bridge as an example of the many bridges, roads, airports, schools and other public works that need repairs or rebuilding, projects that would create jobs especially for construction workers, who have been among the hardest hit since the housing bust three years ago. He called the bridge ''functionally obsolete,'' adding, ''It's safe to drive on, but it was not designed to accommodate today's traffic,'' forcing costly delays or detours for shipping companies.
Aides to Mr. Boehner and Mr. McConnell distributed local news accounts reporting that plans to rebuild the bridge are so preliminary that new jobs are unlikely before 2013, at the earliest. The Republicans also said the bridge had not received money from the first stimulus program in 2009, nor would it be assured of any under his new plan. Decisions about how to use federal money for transportation projects are left to state and local authorities.
Mr. Obama's press secretary, Jay Carney, asked about reports that construction on a new bridge might not start until 2015, said the White House chose the site because it is ''symbolic and representative of crumbling infrastructure across the country.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); CEMENT MFG (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); MITCH MCCONNELL (79%); JOHN BOEHNER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (74%) OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011

 
